ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.1.0	Good morning, let's start the session. The list of questions to answer orally to the Ple is included in the folder. In accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first item on the order of the day of this plenary session. In accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, I also find that the deputies Raquel Sans and Adriana Delgado, for reasons of motherhood, have delegated their vote to the deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group. And so also the record that Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva deputies appointed Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise their parliamentary rights. For another band, and according to the request made for the Government, according to article 83.3 of the Rules, I propose the following alteration of the order of the day, so that the inquiry to the Government on environmental conflicts in Catalonia, which appears as point 10 of the order of the day, can be substantiated as the first of the previous inquiries, in the place of the point of the sixth, related to the Government's inquiry on the system of arxius in Catalonia, and that this point, this if point, becomes substantial in the place of point number 10. Therefore, we would make a change between point 6 and point 10, which would be, in this case, point 6, the first question of tomorrow, you said. Is there a problem? [[Pause.]] Can this change be approved for lack of approval? [[Pause.]] Yeah? All right. [[Communication to the Plenary on the termination of the mandate of the heavyweight syndicate]] All right, once said that, too, and before I begin with the order of the day, let me also allow the ladies to realize that the March 1 proposition, according to the Law 24/2009, of the Synod of Greuges, by means of a resolution of the Presidency of the Parliament, I declared vacant the rank of syndicate of hardships. Mr. Rafael Ribó, who was elected syndic of hardships for the Parliament of Catalonia on February 10, 2010, stopped in charge because he ended the period of nine years of the mandate, for which this function remains vacant. And according to Article 16.1 of this Law, of the Law of the Synod of Greuges, Mr Rafael Ribó and Massó will continue to exercise the functions of syndic of heavy until the appointment of his successor or successor. Yesterday a one-month term was opened for parliamentary groups to submit nominations for the election procedure of the syndic or syndic heavyweight syndic. This deadline, the deadline for applications, was April 5, 2019. [[Ask the Government about the balance of the Mobile World Congress]] [[310-00125/12]] [[That said, let's start with the first point of the order of the day, which is the control session to the government, and specifically to the questions with oral answer to the government.]] [[The first question is about the balance of the Mobile World Congress. The formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Jordi Munell. When he wants to.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, counselors, president; deputies, deputies, good morning. Counselor Puigneró, last week the new edition of the Mobile World Congress was closed, very important event at world level and it returns, has repositioned Catalonia as a referent on world scale, a leading territory in innovation and technology, with a record of 109,000 visitors, and also 25,000 more visitors in Yomo, the parallel festival for young people. Catalonia has been historically and is a territory of revolutions, of revolutionaries, I would say, of agenda that transforms, of progress, of people anxious and curious, unconformist. This has led us to be a very powerful industrial and entrepreneurial territory too, with people who can also lead not only the industrial revolution of the past centuries, but also the revolution that sees us, the digital revolution, the revolution of artificial intelligence, 5G, massive data, the internet of things. In particular, 5G technology will be a major change in the telecommunications sector, which will cover the future needs of industry, towns and cities, but above all people. Barcelona and Catalunya must be at the forefront of this deployment. And to do so, to deploy 5G technology, we also need the deployment of optical fiber, today a basic infrastructure, a real social policy of the 21st century. Our citizens of the country must have the same opportunities as the most developed countries in order to put the technologies at their service. The Digital Society Pact was signed in 2016 to ensure this equal opportunity and social cohesion and territorial balance. The ICT sector is a powerful sector, with a very powerful business and entrepreneurial ecosystem. The government wants to take advantage of, we know, and lead this sector, and what it offers for our country; that's why we have a specific consultancy. Honourable Counselor: What is the balance that the Cabinet of the Congress of Mobile has made this past week and how will we move to the citizenry, from the government and government action, these advantages, the novelty of information and knowledge technologies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.4.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Congressman. Catalonia has historically been a country of great events that have transformed society, that have transformed the country. We have examples in the 19th century with the Universal Exhibition of 1888, but also in the 20th century with the Olympic Games. In the 21st century, the equivalent of these events is called Mobile World Congress; this is the world's most important technological event and is transforming society the most at this time, and it is also an ambassador from Catalonia, positioning us on the map in this digital revolution. Already the advances that the Mobile of this year, d'encany, has been a success, we could say that it has been the best Mobile of history. Not just for the gifres, huh? I'd say there's no more people on Mobile, huh? We will have to expand, as we have announced, the Fira, in order to fit it in the next few years. But above all there was the best Mobile for which it was exposed. We have seen how Catalonia has taught the world what will be the new evolution of mobile telephony: the 5G. We've seen the politics of this country, haven't we? , in the area, for example, of how to apply 5G in the field of health, with the project of the connected ambulance, but also with a live and live operation from the Clinical Hospital using 5G in a patient, therefore, from the Mobile World Congress... Hem, also, took advantage to present the 5G corridor of the Mediterranean, which will be an essential infrastructure for the autonomous and connected vehicle. And we have also taken advantage of the government to present the 5G Strategy of Catalonia, which will be decisive for our economy. In short, Mobile arrived in Catalonia in 2006 as a small piece of furniture and antennas. It has done great in Barcelona and in our country; we are the world capital of furniture. And now we also wanted it to be not only Barcelona's heritage, but also Catalonia's. That's why we organized the Mobile Week, which is the week before the Mobile World Congress, with different cities in the country making it a Mobile Subsequent – Lleida, Girona, Reus, Igualada, the Ribera d'Ebre... –, to involve all the citizens of Catalonia in this event so transcendental and so important. Because, in short, we want a digital country, we want to be referents and an international digital hub of international reference, because we are a land of digital revolutionaries.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.5.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.6.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.7.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the Emergencies and Security System]] [[310-00126/12]] The next question is about the system of emergencies and security. The question is raised, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, by Mr Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.8.0	Thank you, President. Since the recovery of self-government powers, with the Statute of 79, security and emergencies have been a remarkable element in the management of the governments of the Government of Catalonia. The creation of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and the Bombers de la Generalitat has involved the Generalitat in a complex environment, compromised and close to the needs of the citizens, serving security as a guarantee of the rights and freedoms of the people and their well-being. Certainly, and we have some examples, such as the management of August 17. The level of excellence and recognition of our security features..., which have been able to certify the enclosing of the path started in 1983 with the creation of the Law of Squadron Mosses and with the definition of the model of security of Catalonia. This model, which today we understand as normal because of the way it has become part of our daily life, was based on three premises: standard development, training and institutional collaboration. In fact, the collaboration that has been established between the Government and the municipalities has been a pioneer among all the countries around us. And Law 4 of 2003 narrows down the concept of « police of Catalonia. In the same way, the Bombers Cos and the common management of emergencies throughout the Catalan territory have generated knowledge, responsiveness and a participatory movement of volunteers, supporting the management of emergencies. Now, from the early years, and especially after the crisis, this parliamentary group believes that this good work requires an update and a deepening of the relationship between the elements that conform to the security system of Catalonia. It has changed the institutional, professional, cultural and technological background. We think it's a good time to take a step further into the integration of security management and emergencies. That is why we ask him, Councillor d'Interior: what is the understanding of the Department d'Interior with regard to the current standard mark, the competence of the Generality, respecting public security in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, Mr. Miquel Buch, Interior Counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.10.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Member. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. I share his analysis in depth. It's more, I mean, the laws that emanate from us..., we're talking about the 16th of '91, local police; the 5th of '94, fire prevention and extinguishment; the 10th of '94, police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra, and the 4/97, civil protection. So let's just say that it's more than 20 years ago that there are girls, these laws, that they're approved and that they've resulted in a successful model of security and emergences in our country, right? I think it was based on four pillars, this model, right? : political consensus– is important, vital–, collaboration between the Generality and the Encounters– all the institutions of Catalonia, therefore, and public institutions working-with-it folded–, and the relationship and respect between parties and institutions; but without demerging, and as seen as very important and as a great pillar, the compromise, professionalism and sacrifices of thousands and thousands of public workers and workers who day by day have uniformed for the security and emergence of all Catalans and Catalans. But it's true, as you said, that we have our backs, we have new realities. As an example, I quote, therefore, the 216 local police officers we have now – today we have 216 –; the university impulse we have in the criminology camp, in the security camp; participation in international projects; the new realities, tools and strategies of security and emergencies; the modernizing will that the bodies of this country have; private security, too; the impact on the economic reality, negative, that we have felt along these years, that have directly affected the security and emergencies of this country, and, therefore, are facts that we have anticipated. I announce you today, raise this question, MP, that we will bring forward the Law Project of the Police of Catalonia and the Law of Emergencies and Civil Protection of Catalonia, right? We can work on cooperation, uniformity, training, work equipment, transparency, operational coordination, the ongoing evaluation of the work we do. Therefore, we have a lot of scope to resort to; yes, by calling on the four pillars that gave it: political consensus, general collaboration and joint ventures, relationship and respect on the part of the institutions and the compromise of the emergence cosmos. The will is to make Parliament a space of understanding; the Institute of Public Security, a space of coexistence, and cities and towns, the space of collaboration. It is, therefore, that I count on all of you to bring these laws forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.11.0	Counselor, thank you. [[Ask the Government about the preparation of the Barcelona-Pirineus candidacy for the Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games]] [[310-00127/12]] The next question is about the preparation of the Barcelona-Pirineus candidacy for the Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games. Asks the question, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Anna Geli.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.12.0	Counsel, good morning. It was our question and the rest of the program will then prepare for the nomination by the Olympic and Paralympic Games of Iuèrn Pireneus-Barcelona 2030. It's Olympic Games are such an opportunity to then place at the Pyrenees on a map as much as it does on an international scale. You are now a few years old, aeth territóri e es stations deth Pirenèu, like Era Molina or Baqueira-Beret, then to give an example, an aqueelhut with success international events of cups and championships deth mon enes modalités olimpices d'éski aupin, ons o snowboardercross. It is important to take advantage of the Olympic momentum to generate and attract economic activity in every way emphasis on sustainability to avoid unnecessary risks beyond the days that may last for competitions. It was Taula de Trabalh Permanente dera Candidature, from fifty representatives of the caplòcs of this country, like Aran, it was Ribagorça, eth Sobirà, eth Naut Urgell, it was Cerdanha, eth Ripollès o eth Berguedan, and it was especially Barcelona, that since 1992 has had a role of sports capitality to world, year of being able to create a double centrality Pirenèu and Barcelona, and to bet pera improvement of th hilat railways, viari, telecommunications and sports centers, and to measure in value was culture, it was tradition and was modernity tara revaluation of th Pirenèu, and Barcelona, and Catalonia, pending all year. It's very different forms of people from this old school, and it's an educated element of elite sports entities as well as those who use it in psychophysical equilibrium. It's work now Secretary Generau der Espòrt are essentially in the right direction; it sounds like donated: in its Catalan Nautical Performance Program, it procured eth 47 percent of the Catalan medallion in Olympic and Paralympic Games from London and eth 35 this expedition of Catalan sportsmen to Olympic and Paralympic Games from Juêrn de Sochi. In this sense, she advises, that from Junts per Catalonia we want to ask what measures are being taken and what actions are planned in the current programme of preparation of this candidacy by Jocs Olimpics and Paralimpics d'Iuèrn Pirenèus-Barcelona 2030. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs. Elsa Artadi, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.14.0	Thank you. Good morning, everybody. Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Actually, as you said, and mainly through the table that has existed for years, we are now in the condition of doing a rigorous job in which it would imply, therefore, this candidacy of Olympic games, Paralympic games, also, winter Pyrenees, centered on the Pyrenees, and accompanied, with leadership, also, for the international projection that it has, from the city of Barcelona. It's a candidacy that needs to be rigorously worked, to see what impact it has. It has an impact that is very obvious, that it is the fifteen days of the games that place, at the level of the sport, at the international level, in the center of the Pyrenees, that project them to the world. It is an impact that it has – and we also saw it during the Barcelona 92 Olympic Games – for all those sportsmen from our home who practice winter sports. It's an impulse that supposes them to jump to another state of professionalization. But above all that brings us this potential candidacy is a debate, a reflection that we must have of how we see the Pyrenees from here on, twenty, thirty years; where we want the Pyrenees to wander. And the candidacy continues to be a catalyst for prioritizing this debate that has to be made by the Pyrenees, by the Pyrenees, in conjunction with what is civil society, cultural, social, economic, and, obviously, accompanied by institutions, to see what are the mountain policies in the 21st century and what is the future of the Pyrenees. The reorientation that is now being made by the International Olympic Committee, which is very appropriate... Why? Because it is no longer the territory that has to adapt to an Olympic project, but the Olympic project has to adapt to the territory. And if it works adapted to the territory, it's pulled forward, and, if not, it's not to be pulled forward. So, what do we have to do? We need to take advantage of this precisely to speed up infrastructures that we have slopes at the physical level, infrastructures that we have slopes at the telecommunications level; a transformation of what economic activities are, that must pass through the snow, but not only through the ship; that we need to think of the ski resorts, also, as some gateways to these natural parks, this treasure that we have in the country. We must ensure that there is no reversal that it is only at a time, at a time, that there is no urban planning, and that it really serves, therefore, to transform the economy, the opportunities, the vital projects, whenever it is with a sustainable orientation economically, socially and environmentally. We believe that the future goes through the Pyrenees and that the Olympic candidacy precisely...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.15.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.16.0	...it's an opportunity and an arrival that we can leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.17.0	The next question... [[Ask the Government about the compliment of the Law 16/2017, of the climate change, in matter of energy transition]] [[310-00123/12]] ... it is about the compliment of the Law 16/2017, of the climate change, in the matter of energy transition; question formulated for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The formula Mr. Lucas Ferro. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.18.0	Good morning, Counselor. A Swedish student, Greta Thunberg, has mentored with her example many students from the world and also from Catalonia. It has been two weeks since each diver, before the Generality and other cities of Catalonia, there have been calls by young people and students to prepare the student vacancy against the March 15 climate change and demand more determination from the different governments in the struggle against the climate change. There is no plan to bless that it does not guarantee a just and democratic ecological transition. The challenge, today, after two years of austerity policies, is not to return to the past by rebuilding our model of welfare, but by building a model of the future, transforming our societies to make them more just and democratic, but also more egalitarian and sustainable. In Catalonia we have collected European targets in the Catalan Climate Change Act and in the Energy and Climate Change Plan, where it is committed that 20 % of the energy in Catalonia is produced with renewable sources by 2020. According to data from the Català de l'Energia Institute, we are far from achieving the commitments by 2020, and the wind energy sector is already warning us that we will not complete them by 2030. We are a quarter of our commitments to wind and photovoltaic energy. The question is clear: how does his Government value the compliments of the objectives of the Pla de l'Energie and the Climate Change and the Catalan Climate Change Law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word "Constellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, is written. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congressman. We obviously subscribe to the principles and axes of the National Energy Transition Pact and we also subscribe to the goals set by the Climate Change Law. They are ambitious objectives: a 50_percent renewable year 2030, a country decarbonized year 2050, also 2027 nuclear power outage; we also established the creation of the Catalan energy agency, a table of entities, a political table to work on all these issues. What have we done so far? How do they value this action? For what it does to the call of the table of entities, it was called this past 20 February, with the participation of multiple agents, all involved in the field of energy transition; the political table is called in these own days, I think they are not in the current. And in concrete areas, concrete actions. For what it does to the photovoltaic generation, on October 17, 2017, in the SolarCat strategy, between 2017 and 2018 there was a total reversal of 700,000_euros for electrical domestic consumption batteries. This 2019 will have the call of 1 million euros more destined for this objective. Also, for what it does to SolarCat's self-consumption table, before the summer we also have a municipal order model that removes these barriers, because it is also intended to be able to implement photovoltaic plates. On issues in the field of electric mobility, we already have eighty points of rapid recharge to Catalonia; we want to end this year with one hundred points, we plan to allocate this year 700,000 more euros, apart from the alliance that is already created for the interoperability of municipalities for the PIrvECs points. But the Generality is also involved, and it shows that is not the Pla d'étalvi and energy efficiency for the buildings and equipment of the Generality. These past four years have invested more than 18 million euros. And the industry, we also work with the industry, for the decarbonization of the industry, with the Renova't plan and the coupons that we are pushing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.22.0	Catalonia had to produce 20 percent of the energy with renewable sources before it finished this year and 50 percent by 2030 to meet our commitments. This implied a constant commitment from the Generality. Climate change is not a compromise with a future far away, but with a present that is demanding. Catalonia was a pioneer more than thirty years ago in the installation of Spain's first wind turbine. Today is the autonomous community sysena. Any years practically in white, that bring us out of our commitments. We've lost a decade; we've installed in Catalonia a part of the wind and photovoltaic power we're supposed to have not from here for 20 years only the year you see. To govern Catalonia is to make a compromise with the present and future welfare; it is to make a country bet on four key pillars: an expansionary assumption that ceases to offer the welfare to our country and three plans that depend directly on its advice; a national plan for the industry to address the production jump and not be an economy of services, a national pact for energy transition and a national pact for the knowledge society, so that it is a search engine, development and innovation. And we've lost two years. The only thing we ask of them is that they don't order us to lose our own gods, either. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.24.0	Yes, thank you. The pacts of which you speak, precisely driven by this council, and also this Energy Transition Pact. Look, we're not responsible for not being able to exercise so far, so many of the objects. But I can tell you that there is political compromise, there is economic compromise and there is a strategic compromise to get them out of the way to the cent_per_cent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the impetus to women's participation in the rural and maritime world]] [[310-00121/12]] The next question is about the impetus for the participation of women in the rural and maritime world. The question is raised, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, by Mrs Irene Fornós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.26.0	Thank you, President. It will advise, the figures pose as manifest the lack of visibility of the activity of the women of the rural environment. The Idescat quantified the occupation of the agricultural sector, the ramaderia, the forestry and the fishing in a 15_per_cent of women before 85_per_cent of men. The UN also points out that only 20_percent of the world's women are holding farms or activities of agricultural productive economy. Still, they devote a lot of time to this activity, even though they are traditionally used to valuing as an extension of domestic work and family care, which they also collect from them. The specific conditions of the rural environment, such as the masculinization of agricultural and fishing activities, the enveloping, the major difficulties in accessing the different services, and in particular the relation to the new technologies, or the lack of representation of rural women in places of responsibility and decision making, make women, in addition, have difficulties precisely added to living in the rural environment, from which the areas traditionally linked to fisheries and aquaculture also fall. All this also translates into a threat to life in small municipalities, due to the lack of opportunities for women and access to equal conditions for a job that ultimately also draws a landscape of risk of depopulation of the territory where most of these activities have ended up, as well as the generational network, essential for the survival and continuity of many of these activities. Women living in rural areas and fishing are therefore a priority for action before their greatest risk of vulnerability. To fill in the role of the rural world woman and to give visibility to the work being done in front of the different areas, both of the rural world and of the maritime world, there is still a lot to do, a lot of work to do, as they say, there is still a lot to do and a lot of work to do. But the women are showing that they can carry out important projects in these areas – pages, branches, fishers, fishermen, forestry – not only at the individual level but also at the collective level, and with a global vision to project, preserve and re-launch a whole territory and a sector. They are clear, and for this reason, in order to defend their role, their work and their model of economic subsistence, they have organized themselves into two associations: Dones del Món Rural and Dones del Món Marítim, or Dones de la Mar, which we have been able to know recently. But that's not enough. As from the Administration they are also collected, recognized and valued their pocket, not only for the purpose of making their reality visible, but also sometimes in the shadow, and improving it, so also their conditions, but also as a guarantee of survival in the rural world. Can you explain to us, counsel, who are the policies that from the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food are coming to an end in this sense? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.28.0	Thank you very much, President. Congresswoman... very good morning to everyone and everyone. Before you go, allow me a first thought. From the outset, I am absolutely convinced that as a society we have a duty, a duty that I am also convinced that all of you will share with a servant, a debt to make an immense recognition to all the women who have been part of the past, but who also form part today, of all the women who have led in the past, but who also lead today, of all the women who have beaten and beaten today the rural and maritime world of our country; a recognition to all the women pages, to all the women gathered, to all the women forestry, aquaculture, beekeepers, sailors, fishermen, moorers, to all of them, that this patriarchal society, and to all of us must say so clearly, therefore, that it is still unheard. Since the department, tell you that we are absolutely enjoined to do a lot of things; but there is one thing that this legislature will do without any doubt, that it is to feminize the land and also to feminize the sea. In fact, the first woman to advise this department, the friend today's exiled painter Meritxell Serret, has already promoted the program on her day of women from the rural and maritime world of Catalonia, and has also promoted the creation of a network of rural and maritime women to boost its ownership and visibility. Fruit of this eagerness in spring two associations, which we were to have, which I had the honor of presenting past divers: July 18th at the Association of the Dones of the Sea, and at the genera of encanny at the Association of the Dones of the Rural World, pages and branches, eh? But more than that, because there isn't enough, there's a government agreement that we were going to take yesterday as an execution council, which is the creation of the Rural and Maritime Donor Council, which basically claims two things. The first is to promote actions that in some way favour the participation of the women of the rural and maritime worlds in public spaces and in spaces where decisions are made, because that is the important thing, where decisions are made, and that includes all areas, huh? , professional, cooperative, political and obviously trade union circles. And last but not least, that the woman, that the woman's voice is there, is there and is there, above all because she needs to be listened to in a sector, the primary sector, which, obviously – and we have to say loud and clear – is what she wants, because she simply can do it all. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about sexist discrimination work inspections]] [[310-00122/12]] The next question is about sexist discrimination work inspections. Formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, the question, Mrs Montserrat Fornells.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.30.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Councillor El Homrani, on February 22, we celebrated the European Day for Wage Equity and this divender, March 8, is the International Day of Women Workers. From our group we believe that every day is and must be the international day of the woman or of equal pay, because we consider that it is necessary to correct inequalities, that there are many, such as that women cover a 23,9_per_cent less than average respect for men, or that 75_per_cent of part-time contracts are for women. Wage equity is evidence, and it can break glass braids and eliminate treacherous lands, because less than 20 percent of women are part of big business boards. That's why, from our group, we want to end all these inequalities. We want to end the feminization of the poor; we want to eradicate settlement, combat masculinism and eliminate any form of discrimination. In short, we want a society with full effective equality. Feminist struggle is not just a struggle of women, it is a struggle for equality, freedom and social justice. That's why, this sale, we're all out on March 8th, to highlight these inequalities that I've been thinking about, and to defend that it's guaranteeing the same opportunities to make a society fairer and more egalitarian. Counselor, last week, in our country, held the celebration of a new edition of Mobile World Congress, an important event both from the technological point of view and from the economic point of view. We are aware that the UGT union has filed three complaints for alleged sexist discrimination in the selection of staff from some company to perform tasks during the Mobile World Congress, which claimed sizes from 36 to 38, short skirts, ring make-up or a minimum height of one_metre seventy-five. UGT also denounced that the work places created by Mobile are precarious, discriminatory and gender-sensitive, which contribute to the continued perpetuation of gender stereotypes and the cosmification of women. That's indignant. We cannot hear innovation without the social perspective. Counselor, our group wants to ask you what the department that you encapsulate respects this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word now the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Family, the Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.32.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, as you say, from the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families close to us, as the labor authority, to deal with all the complaints that are made on the mark of the world of work, and we are proud to be able to say that 2018 created the inspector actions on gender discrimination facts in a 45_per_cent. We are very clear that we will not look at another side, we are very clear that we will work hand in hand with all agents to avoid any kind of discrimination and, especially, gender discrimination. As you know, there were three complaints, one about sexist language, one about working conditions and another about sex discrimination in the occupation, in access to the occupation. We have opened dispatch and, once closed this dispatch, we will talk to both the responsible companies and the organizing companies to avoid this type of situation. From the Labour Inspectorate we are very clear that it is a priority and it is a necessity to be able to avoid any type of discrimination. Actions by the Labour Inspectorate focus on gender discrimination, sexual assault, sexual assault, equal treatment, gender discrimination, right of conciliation and discrimination in access to employment, and we will continue to do so. And there are some aspects that we think are... that exemplify where we're going. We have inspectors and inspectors specialising in gender discrimination at each territorial demarcation, in Barcelona a specific team, because there is more volume. We have been training throughout 2018 on rights and discrimination issues and we will continue to work because the labor authority is one more tool to achieve what we have to achieve as a company, which is that 51_percent of the company in this country does not live in a situation of inequality and in a situation of discrimination. And in this, the compromise as much of the department as the government is full and we will act whenever there is any action and we will never look any other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the subscription of the outstanding debt of the schools in Bressol]] [[310-00120/12]] The next question is about the subscription of the debt to the bressol schools. The question is raised, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.34.0	Yeah, good morning. Thank you, President. Honourable Counsellor Bargalló, as you know, on the 7th of February, the Supreme Court rejected the appeal of cassation filed for its Government of the Generality against the judgment of the TSJ, a judgment that obliged the Government of the Generality to recognize a debt to a number of Catalan assemblies where there were almost two million people in the concept of support and financing of municipal title schools, and this converted into a firm sentence and therefore a compliment. A judgment that recognizes the right to collect a thousand_three hundred_euro per student in relation to the 2012-2013 course, 13-14 and 14-15, and adds a total of about 14_million euros. Counselor, what is his government's understanding of the compliment of this sentence?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the advisor of Education, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.36.0	Thank you, President. Member, of the six sentences handed down on this aspect affecting appeals filed for thirty-one consistories, there is only one firm, the others are still in cassation situation for the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, even though the Supreme has not accepted the cassation, they are still in the Superior of Justice in this way. In any case, whatever the cassation that the High Court makes of it, the will of this Government, which has been explained sometimes, is to give compliments to all the assemblies of Catalonia – whether it is resorted to or not resorted to – on the return of that need that the Government had to help the public support of children's homes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.37.0	Thank you, President. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.38.0	Yes; counselor, you last year's June is a commitment in your parliament, precisely in this control session, to regain the co-responsibility in the financing of children's homes, abandoned by the government since 2012, despite having exclusive skills, and to guarantee its sustainability and, therefore, it is a commitment to do so from the very beginning of the 2019-2020 course. Not only that, at that time, and you have repeated it now, you said that you would return the debt to the joints that you had loaded on your spaces at this public office, to which you had resorted to justice and, even so, the rest of the municipalities that had not done so. Now, ever since the Supreme's decision to turn this sentence into a firm one, you haven't made a statement about the support and viability of these schools, either short or medium-term in Catalonia, and we were worried and worried about their silence, counselor. In the last few weeks we have seen how his government has rejected additional tickets for Catalonia, which included the general premise of the State, which would have assumed about 4,000_million euros in receipts to the country. Nor have there been any assumptions in the Executive Board, which, on the other hand, only envisaged 20_million euros for the zero-to-three stage of education, you see that neither in the case of the outstanding debt nor in the case of the payment of the outstanding debt. And they have not been able to reach agreement with the provincial deputies, governed by their governing partners, who in the past few years have been contributing to the support of this service, but in the assumption of the year that they do not even incorporate any part to such effect. Counselor, what can you tell us? What can the Government say to the experts to assign this educational stage as the key stage to ensure fairness and improve the educational success of the student in Catalonia? What can you tell families that they cannot access this service and that they lose job and educational opportunities for their children? And what can you tell the city that you've seen your right to recover your inverted imports with a lot of effort in the support of children's homes? Can you say anything to this government? Do they intend to assume their responsibility and comply with their obligations? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Or they'll follow us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.39.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.40.0	...losing time and opportunities?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.41.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]] To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.42.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, as you have said, this government's commitment to a zero-to-three-year education is complete, not just because it marks the Catalonian Education Law, but because it is the will of this government. As you also said, in the Generality's assumptions for 2019, that the President and the Vice President of the Government presented last week, there is for the first time, after a thousand years, a zero-to-three game. As a result, the will is clear. For the feelings: the one that is firm, is suspected of execution by negotiation of the government with the assembly, the rest are not yet. When we remain firm, we will do what we said we would do, that we will return to all the assemblies the corresponding part, and we will do so, depending on the presuppositional availabilities, and depending on the agreements that we are reaching with the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asks the Government about policies to facilitate the reconciliation of work, social and family life]] [[310-00128/12]] The next question is about policies to facilitate the reconciliation of work, social and family life, question formulated for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. You have the word to expose it to Mr. Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.44.0	Yes, good morning, counselor. Well, the child of the children is a very rewarding experience, and in good faith, but also hard and demanding, as is the fact of caring for a great person or with disabilities. That is why the Administration should be made easier, as far as possible, the task, which, unfortunately, the Generality does not do well. Counselor, can you explain to me what the Government is doing to facilitate the reconciliation between work and personal, family and social life?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.45.0	To answer the question, there is the words of the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.46.0	Thank you, President. Member, as you have put it, one of the most important challenges is that of co-responsibility around conciliation; the co-responsibility that we need as a society and that we need on the part of all and all around the elements of conciliation. What do we do from the department, and beyond, from the government, about the reconciliation of personal and work life? What do we do? So, three types of policies. For one thing, support policies for families, for the various types of families that exist in the country. And basically here we are..., soon the decree of children's services will enter the school for the little child, which is what shows us a need, which is that of childhood cures between zero and six years in childhood, and how to take advantage of a model such as that carried out in Germany, France, Switzerland and Scotland and which has results. One_second element: equality policies, and here all the elements of equality plans are around. We now have more than one hundred and fifty equality plans that affect almost one hundred and thousand workers. And soon a decree will arrive in which we will make the obligatory of these equal plans, and it will be a way to take another step forward. An equality that..., an obligation that we would have wanted to do before, but, as you know, the Constitutional Court has opened up an important part of the equal work measures of the Law of Equality between men and women. And a third is labour authority measures, which we have explained before... [[For technical reasons, some words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.47.0	Thank you, Counselor, to answer the honourable Member's question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.48.0	Miri, Councillor, from the year 2012, coinciding with the beginning of the separatist process, Catalonia has been at the forefront of retailing in relation to the rest of the autonomous communities. Successive independentist governments, obsessed with separating Catalonia from the rest of Spain, have shown enough that conciliation is not a priority for the nationalist parties that govern Catalonia. The conciliation, of course, is not rendezvous with the child's environment, but, counselor, allows, like three children in pre-school age, I tell him that it is intolerable, that it is a shame, that the Government has allocated zero_euros to schools in Bressol– zero_euros– and, in change, allocates 250_millions of euros per year to TV3 and Catalonia Radio. It is clear who are the priorities of this government and of those who preceded it. As I said, reconciliation does not make up for the child, but rather for other areas that are so much or more important, such as dependency aid for older people or disabled people. And in this sense, Counselor, you also allow me to give you some data that would embarrass any government that aspires to ensure equal opportunities between its citizens. Catalonia is the community with the largest waiting lists for people in a situation of dependency. Despite the economic recovery, the social expenditure in Catalonia, the autonomous, is a 20_per_cent lower than before the crisis. Before I begin, as a fan of habit, to blame the rest of Spain, I insist that I refer to the autonomous expenditure, that is, the one that is solely attributable to you, that have governed Catalonia all these years, in that they have found money to open embassies or delegations abroad and to put under the fugitives of justice. Counselor, you have done nothing to facilitate reconciliation; only those who are interested in continuing to devote the money of all to your identity obsession. But conciliation is a requirement, unlike secession, of any democratic society that is fair, because it favors the welfare of today's and tomorrow's citizens. This, Mr. Counselor, should be the government's real priority and, as a good thing, I am mistaken, but I am very afraid that you will continue to insist on your identity obsession, thus degrading the quality of life of the citizens of Catalonia, which is ultimately the only matter in which you have demonstrated that you are excellent or, finally, solvent. Please ask them to dedicate to the priorities of the citizens of Catalonia the money we pay among all Catalans and stop advertising the secession...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.49.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.50.0	...in the accounts of dedicating it to... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.51.0	To answer, you have the word, again, the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.52.0	Thank you, President. After a new session of, as it is said in the castle, conversation of besugos, it is to say, do not listen to us and do not explain to us, I will not go in to explain to him that the assumptions that you agreed with the PP assigned zero_euros to schools Bressol and 8,000_millions to defense. I'm not going to explain to them other aspects like... [[Greetings.]] It's a conversation we're not listening to. I will only give you a reflection – I will give you a reflection – and I give you this reflection in a very honest way. Miri, this week, that we have had the visit of a bus that is said to..., of Hazte Oir, in which it is asked its leader that you do certain types of policies, this week, that you govern with the support of Vox...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.53.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.54.0	...I believe that in certain measures... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.55.0	The next question... [[Ask the Government about its right to respect institutional neutrality in electoral period]] [[310-00129/12]] ... it is about their duty to respect the institutional neutrality in the electoral period, formulated for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.56.0	The government does not intend to withdraw yellow bonds from the institutions, as Ciutadans asks. Is it ratified in your spokesman's statements yesterday as to whether you are going to remove these yellow ties from public buildings, symbolism and banners? Are they going to take them away now that we are in an election or not?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.57.0	To answer, the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.58.0	As with the Government of Catalonia, we will work, as we have always done, to guarantee the rights and freedoms of all citizens – all citizens. Let us not confuse it with the political campaigns of the Ciutadans Group, which you represent. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.59.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.60.0	I see that you do not dare, Mr Bosch, to acknowledge that the law is going to be blown up in Parliament. Look, it is clear that elections are not fair if the Administration that is to collaborate in your organization is not neutral, as required by article 103 of the Constitution, or fails to comply with the agreement of the Central Electoral Board 132/2017, which says: "Public authorities must refrain from placing in public buildings partisan symbols and must withdraw those that had been placed before the election call. Which part do you not understand, Mr Bosch? Look, the picture of the Palau de la Generalitat, I tie with a banner, asking for freedom from political prisoners, which puts in multiple public buildings and that symbol is the same as that of the Republican Left Party – yours – and the PDECAT, and those ties are the ones that you carry right now in all your laps and are the ones that look in your seats and are not those of this half of the Chamber. Are you going to continue with all shame, in an election period, using public buildings to make political propaganda of your political choice? Is it not the right of voters who do not wear the yellow tie to respect the neutrality of public buildings? Are you going to deny them that right? Are you going to advertise yours in political buildings? Are you going to do it, Mr. Bosch? What happens, that there are first - time Catalans who do what they want and others who pay taxes and swallow what you say or what? Look, today is the third and last warning we give you. [[Widow's remorse.]] Tomorrow, if you don't remove the symbols and fulfill...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.61.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.62.0	... with the provisions of the Constitution and the Electoral Board, we are going to go to the Electoral Board to enforce you, because, since we have a president of the Government who seems not to want to govern the Constitution and the laws in Catalonia, and you are willing to skip them, it will be Citizens who demand you, going to where you have to go, which is to the Electoral Board, that you comply with the instruction that I have just read to you, which is clear and final. What have you thought, that you can tarnish the next election? You? They would have to face shame in Europe, to you, Mr Bosch. What will Europe think of what the Generalitat of Catalonia is doing?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.63.0	Congressman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.64.0	Mr. Carrizosa, I'll tell you what we're gonna do with the government. We, if you allow us, would be more attentive to the Electoral Board than you – if you allow us. And we will do what they do to all of Europe – to all of Europe – and that is what we will say to all of Europe. If it doesn't look bad to you, I'm sure it won't look bad to you, we, like all of Europe, will do what we can to guarantee the free exercise of the vote during a few elections. This is our mission and our obligation as a government. And I'll also tell him what we won't do – I'll tell him what we won't do. We don't cover up right-wing violations. We do not say 'liberal feminism', which means'maleism'. [[Greetings.]] We will not say 'neutrality' – we will not say 'neutrality' when what they mean is censorship. What we're not gonna do is censor things. We won't censor colors, we won't censor the cave, we won't censor the king, we won't censor the lilac, even though you're pushing us because your Vox partners in Andalusia are pushing them against that color. [[Greetings.]] We won't do that. We will not return, Mr. Carrizosa, to the black and white of the Node, we will defend all the colors, and so on, the colors of the posters and the photocopies that teach us here, we will also defend your right to use these colors, of course we will! [[Greetings.]] Listen, we don't ban free expression, we can't do it with the government, near us. I will not go to my department and I will not tell the workers of my department or of my colleagues who forbid the workers who express their protest, who express their pain, because their excap is in prison, unjustly accused, a man of pau. We don't even go chasing people, because they're not around us. Here, we don't have a chromatic problem, Mr. Carrizosa; here, we have an ethical problem. Here, we have a problem of rights and freedoms. That's the problem with the background, it's not about colors, it's not about plates, it's not about banners. We have a hard problem, very hard to violate rights and freedom. And, listen, they don't like to see deep ties, we understand that. They don't like to see deep loops. So, if they don't like to see deep loops, listen, if they want to neutralize, that political trials are over to political prisoners! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.65.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[Ask the Government about school segregation]] [[310-00124/12]] The next question is about school segregation. He asks the question, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.66.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. His government and the parties that support him bet to support Catalonia an educational model that generates school segregation and that, consequently, does not only act against social segregation, but helps to accentuate it. Private and elitist centres, concerted centres that secrete by social class and some, and so on, by sex, and various models of public centres, set up a real educational market in which families trien and understand unequal opportunities for their children, unequal depending on which centre to trien. The LEC, which, in this respect, is perfectly suited to the LOMCE and the Pact against Segregation, which does not in any way reflect the corresponding limits, enshrines this system of production and reproduction of inequalities. Does your government intend to change this model or do you want to perpetuate it and reproduce it, in any case, and like a lot, with slight reforms? Who are your policies against school segregation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the advisor of Education, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.68.0	Thank you, President. Member of the Commission. - We have repeated it several times. School segregation worries us. It is a reality that concerns us and it is one of the priorities of the department and the government, the work against segregation and the fight for equity. And in that, we're compromised; and in that, we've already done some actions, and in that, we'll do more actions such as, for example, the modification that we're working on the student admission decree, and the modification that we're working on the educational concert decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.69.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.70.0	Miri, counselor, some data. In the later years, both primary and secondary, there have been no significant breakthroughs in the fight against student segregation with diversity, inequality and special educational needs. And, at present, to ensure a fully balanced schooling of this student– listen well–, it would be useful to modify the schooling of a 48_per_cent of this student. According to the pre-registration data of 16-17, at Barcelona's innovative public schools there was only a 10-per-cent foreign student, while other proper centers located in the same barri had more than a 25-per-cent migrant school. If the number of school scholarships, such as the indicator of child poverty, is studied, the differences can be up to eleven points between innovative schools and schools with conventional system. The assumption that families go to education has increased by 19_percent, since the beginning of the crisis, about 500_euros a year; while public contributions have fallen by 11_percent to Catalonia. What's the main problem? This multiple network of different centers with different models, which generate, by nature, school segregation and social segregation, and also lack of a regulatory mechanism for enrollment registration; therefore, it is very important that municipal offices can play this key role in the single and planned and centralized administration of enrollment with sanctioning capacity. What controls do you think you're setting up because all the centers in the country are public, free, and don't run out of students? For us, it is clear: an intercultural and interclassist school, and bewildered.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.71.0	Congressman, time's up. Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.72.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Member, it is quite right that school segregation affects all elements of the system, starting with a balance that has not always been achieved, which is the right of the family to choose the centre and the right of the Administration to the fairness of the system. If we only pose before the right of choice, and hold under the right of equity, we do not fight against segregation. For this reason, we, the department, have already communicated to all inspectors, chairmen of registration commissions, clear criteria because, prior to the future school decree, they can act from a line of defense of the fairness of the administration. And this duty of fairness of the Administration has to end – not only, but it has to end – with some of the examples that you set, because it is not the will of this government to maintain school segregation, but all the contrary, I can assure you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.73.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the compromise for a Catalonia free of tolls]] [[317-00070/12]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. The first question is asked by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia. It has the word, to present it, the deputy Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.74.0	Yes; thank you, President. Mr. Torra, how do you intend to fulfill the commitment that your coalition, Junts per Catalunya, acquired at the time to reach a toll-free Catalonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.75.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.76.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. It is indeed a compromise of this Government. It is a compromise that we, on the assumption that we have prepared, have already moved forward in this solution and effectively maintain it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.77.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.78.0	Yes; thank you, President. The truth is that I have asked you the simple question, centered and at the foot, to see if you could answer anything, but I see that when you get out of your lyric discourse about the past and future of Catalonia you have no idea, because it has nothing to do with it. Now I see you are trying to teach him what the issue is about, because it has nothing to do with his plans, which is to make a vignette, which is just the opposite. In any case, let me tell you that this matter of tolls is the paradigmatic case of the hypocrisy of the relationship you have historically established with the various governments of Madrid. Because for decades, and I say well, 'decades, you have been a disciplined lobbyist in favour of certain concessionary companies, systematically calling for wider concessions, with the most pilgrim excuses. Until someone was lit a little light, at the beginning of the process, and thought that a campaign had to be started asking Catalonia to be free of tolls. And for a while it went well for them, because it is evident that from the populism of the aggravation can work well for a while, until a news appeared that completely altered their plans, and it was the announcement, increasingly close, that this 31 December, this year, the concession of the AP-7 is finished in the southern section, and this same news put on the table, palmarily, the face B, and it was that the C-32, the most expensive highway in Europe, which is its own, there they had no intention of rescuing the toll. And I say well, too, they have no intention of rescuing the toll. You have had a budgetary negotiation with the Government of Spain right now, it was a good time to ask for help on this issue. They didn't, they don't care, you guys, about these issues. They asked for a rapporteur, an international mediator, but this about rescuing tolls and these things matter to them. No, no, Mr. Torra, you're not betting on a toll-free Catalonia. They have taken out of the sleeve the vignette, that is, the flat rate, which means that all the cars will pay, use or not, adding a more motive of spolio to the Catalans and which also puts on the table a definitive argument: it is not Madrid that steals us, the Catalans, Mr Torra, are, have been and I am afraid that it will continue to be you, the ones who steal us. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.79.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.80.0	Yes, thank you. No, his ability to ask what he's after, apparently on a technical subject, to bring the conversation up to his favorite political theme really is absolutely surprising. No, no, congratulations, congratulations. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.81.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.82.0	No, because that also allows me to focus the issue exactly where you wanted to carry it, which is the unbearable fiscal deficit that this country has to bear. Effectively. That's the point, that's this, you brought it here– you brought it here. Do you want me to remind you of all the assumptions that your government has introduced and systemically incomplimentary in the presuppositional execution? A lot of times, a lot of these assumptions per sub... excuse me? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah. No, no, many times under...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.83.0	Silence, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.84.0	It's just that I'm talking now, Mrs. Levy, if you don't mind. Many times under the 15_per_cent of the presuppositional execution. That's the problem that this country has, this and the 15,000_million euros that every year they leave Catalonia and that they don't come back. And this fiscal deficit – and we've insisted many times, and I think it's a point where we all agree – this fiscal deficit is turned into a social deficit, a infrastructure deficit, a scholarship deficit for our students. This tax deficit has a translation. And yes, you also have the inconclusive investments always for the State in the whole issue of infrastructure, always. Effectively. And the counselor knows that he defends the implantation of the winery. The defence is the result of a European directive. It is the result of a European directive, and we will go this way, we will go this way, always trying to give the best solution to Catalans, but always claiming that this country will never have the infrastructure or the welfare it deserves until we can manage our resources to the hundred_per_cent. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.85.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the feminist policies of the Government]] [[317-00072/12]] The following question is formulated by the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Puem, and on behalf of her, the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.86.0	Yeah. President, do you think your government can be proud of the feminist policies it has made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.87.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.88.0	This government fights, like the first, for effectively the equality between men and women in this country remains effective.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.89.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.90.0	Yes, President. On the 8th of March, the sale, there will be a slot, to which we will all go, to say that if we stop the world, and in this fight that it is of all that his government has done more to put dead ties to the lap or to make minutes of silence? Because feminism doesn't come from this, feminism comes from public policies that put life at the center, and from that you haven't done much, and we've seen it at the government control session, because everything you do, all the times you're planting... but what's going on right now? I'll give you a few examples. You are not feminists, when we wear since 2015 without a plan of shock against masculinist rapes, and yet you have not presented it, or when experts and survivors ensure that the situation of care centers is shameful, because there are no work guides, because there is collapsing in habitat, because there have been difficult deficiencies in the care of children, neither does the diversity of women, or when they do not have enough money for schools or for residences, that are the work of cures, that in the 99_per_cent of the cases collect on women, and women, more, that they usually have many moneys and are in a situation of vulnerability, or when they do not produce real truths, what do they do to them? Because we're not seeing it. In today's world of uncertainty and monsters, feminism is the democratic alternative that there is, that puts inequality in the center, and the cures understand them as a collective task, because feminism is also a society free of fear and insecurity, and they are not leaving the skin to reverse it, and because it can create a new time when politics is among all, and it serves to solve the common problems of empathy, because feminism is also dialectical and also cooperation, and neither is it seen. And I want to end with a warning, a warning to those who want to use feminism to whitewash their pacts with the extreme right, because we don't accept a supposed feminism, because that's not feminism, that's measured by the harms of male men who want to maintain their privileges, or that's not masculist? He can't be a feminist and deal with Vox. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, again the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.92.0	Yes; thank you, honourable Member, and these applause are worth the last part of your speech, which I also fully and effectively subscribe to. We know that since the Catalan Institute of Women we have presented a campaign, "We are March 8th, we are here, because we understand and share the March 8th. The government does not summon waves, but gives it support, and we have cancelled, all the advisors and advisors of this government, our public agenda. So how come we don't have to give it to him on March 8th? And, effectively, and we put figures on the table, which are the figures that have been in the company: 23_per_cent less than that with equal jobs; 25_per_cent of radio and television presence, 25_per_cent of IBEX administration boards; 18_per_cent of mayors, when we have more women titrated to degrees and masters, etc. Is that a government problem or is it a whole society problem? And, therefore, we attack him, we attack him, and not this government, but in the previous governments you know that there have been two essential laws that need to be taken into account: first, the right of women to eradicate male violence, and we will commit 37_million euros to these programs. Second important law: the effective equality of women and men. I don't think this intervention can be done without taking these two laws into account. We will approve, in short, the Strategic Platform for Gender Equality Policies 2019-2022, which has been developed – and you know it – on the basis of a participatory process where more than four hundred entities belonging to the National Council of Donors of Catalonia have intervened. A platform that includes six axes: education and promotion of values and egalitarian models, promotion of equity in work and co-responsibility in the uses of time, prevention and eradication of male violence, political participation and personal and community empowerment of women, visibility and non-sexist communication, cross-cutting the gender perspective of public policies. And, indeed, we have set aside the Observers for Gender Equality, the Gender Equity Training Platform, the Guide to Mainstreaming the Gender Perspective into Public Contracts, and this Government believes that these gender policies should be applied across all departments, and we will work on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.93.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the feminist agenda of the Government]] [[317-00069/12]] The next question, the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mrs Eva Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.94.0	Thank you, President. President, they're not words, they have to be facts. The women are killing us: the ninety-nine women murdered in Catalonia, the last two years. The poor are female: four of each of their single-parent families are women and are under the umbrella of the poor. Discrimination, too, when we are 60_percent of the licentiates, but only 29_percent of the professors, and when we are set_of_each_workers who cover less than a thousand euros we are also women, and wages are also an unbearable reality. Today's women earn 6,500 euros a year less than men. And reconciliation in Catalonia also looks like a woman: new to each one of your excesses for caring for family members we make the women. Glass-and-earth strut. This is the reality of women, president, and all this and we live with hope the strength of the feminist movement, which is rebellious against this state of things. The women will not back down a single _thousand metre, and we demand governments to respond to the difficult problems we suffer. All of this – said Jessica Albiach –, women will stop this Friday 8th, and we are convinced that equality is the engine of freedom and democracy, and that equality must be the guiding vector of any government. President, what do you intend to do to your government before this situation? What's his feminist agenda? We don't have clear people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.96.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I share your diagnosis, it seems to me that it is timely and absolutely essential this week, when through television programs, parliaments, we are really thinking about this difficult situation that you have posed as a manifesto and that Mrs Albiach has also done. For us, talking about gender equality also means equality and the country of opportunity for this country, which is what we want and, therefore, at this point we will not take a step back. I insist, we are talking about a structural problem of our society, of a patriarchal society that we need to change, and today, precisely, the agricultural councillor is also a point of equality, of which she supposes in the rural world, for example, this equality. I will not repeat myself with the two laws that I have previously expressed, but I would like to perhaps..., give me the opportunity to deal with a little more concretely, other actions that from the Generality and other departments are due to end at this point. I insist, I repeat, that the programme of rural and maritime world women, the programme of gifts and sport, the Pla Director of Development Cooperation 2015-2018 for a country committed to gender equality and human rights, including Agenda 2030, the Pla d'egalité d'opportunité d'hommes et dones de l'Administration, also the Pla de foment de la participation de la donnes en el mon de les technologies de la información et la comunicación, the Pla d'egalité de genere dans el sistema educatiu, which aims to ensure that educational action at the centre is based on the principles of co-education and equal opportunities. We aim for 10_millions, from the Catalan Institute of Donations, to these policies, too, which seems to me to be important, but I insist on the cross-cutting of the gender policies of the department, of the Department of Culture, of Justícia, from all departments; as well as culture is a cross-cutting axis, so are the gender policies. And I would also like, on the subject of the wage bracket, if I may, to make or explain some of the data that has been made during 2018: a total of 69 equality plans have been reviewed and evaluated; of these, they have been certified and published in the Department's Register of Equality Plans 58 we plans, which have had an impact on almost 56,000 workers and workers; with the plans registered in 2018, the total number of plans that consist of the register is 147, with a direct impact on 94,000 people. There's not enough, there's not enough, but we need everyone's commitment...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.97.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.98.0	...to fight this big problem...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.99.0	Thank you, President. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.100.0	Aren't we going back, President? Independentist governments have accounted for 30_percent of the resources that are dedicated before the gifts. [[Greetings.]] That's a lot of steps back, President. In this matter you preach what you do not practice and what you do not believe, directly. Maybe he didn't explain it, but it's a 30_per_cent less in the resources devoted to women. Do you know that there are no resources for prevention, and that if we talk about caring for the entities that care for the victims, are they drinking with the details and delays in the payments? Have they explained the waiting lists we have for the women's service? President, now I can't talk about Madrid being to blame. You have rejected the assumptions of the State that return all these details. You have a lot of work to do in equality and in many other matters, you don't have your priorities clear, you don't have assumptions, you don't rule. President, your government is knocked out, it doesn't even come up with the assumptions. What do you want to do if you don't have a majority? What do you want to do if you can't, if you don't want to, if you can't rule? Why do you want to stay in office, President? Put the Generality at the service of all citizens and citizens, tomorrow the confidence of the chamber or call elections, because it is a new government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.101.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.102.0	...the one who is able to work. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.103.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generality about the trial of political prisoners, the statements of the President of Andalusia and the future of Catalonia]] [[317-00071/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.104.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President. This week we have seen as the amphibious amnesia of Rajoy, Santamaría, Zoido, last week is converted into cynicism and lies. Yesterday in the Supreme Shame Hall we saw the worst of politics, which is almost all, and even lying without looking at it in court to try to secure a future job – it is also true that in the case of Millo this in Esquerra we knew and knew for some time. Yesterday we saw how personal ambition has no limits, and lack of dignity, neither. And this isn't the only episode we've seen in the last few days; unfortunately, we're getting used to it. Catalanophobia comes, and in electoral times even more. This week we felt how the President of Andalusia demonstrated his absolute ignorance of Catalan society. He made some unfortunate, irresponsible, ethnicistic statements that seek to divide and confront people facing their origin. He won't find us. They can't follow the odi brush, they won't find us. Catalonia almost everyone was born out, or at least it has its origins, and that's the wealthiest thing in this country. In Catalonia there are people of all origins, they speak three hundred languages, and sometimes they are all Catalans and Catalans. And that's a pride for all of us. We are a land of opportunity, a land of freedom, a land of gathering where you see people from all over the world. There is a Catalan dream that has allowed a future and given it to very many people. It's Catalan who I want to be, you've been born where you were born and you speak the language you speak. Everyone who saw Catalonia knows that. The head of the opposition, which now leaves us, is of Andalusian origin. The generality was occupied by a president of the country, and that was not an impediment. [[Widow's remorse.]] There's enough to do the ridiculous trying to confront people. Just about the speech of the hate. Too much to divide people by their origin. We have a unique opportunity, in this Europe where fascism flourishes, we have the opportunity to build an inclusive, open, diverse society, where we all go together. This is the independence project, the one that wants to add and embrace everyone, the one that wants better for Catalonia. And he won't break Aznar, he won't break Ciutadans, he won't break Mr. Moreno. And we won't let that happen. Hello, President? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.105.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.106.0	Thank you, Congressman. We'll never let it go, no, no, no way. Look, Catalonia is a nation of destiny. This is a country of the future, it is a country that does not look at the origins, but looks forward, and it is a country, at least this government, that will always defend the 7_million_i_mig of futures. That's why we put this name, at this exhibition, that I recommend to all the deputies and deputies of this chamber who pass through Palau Robert. This is an exhibition that they intend to return to the famous« Som 6_millions and give yet a more symbolic load of the future to these 7_millions_i_mig of the future. We want to go forward, and we don't want to look back. There is a very nice phrase from Maria Aurelia Capmany that says: "An immigrant is an immigrant until he unpacks. I feel proud that Catalonia has thousands of suitcases that it has taken away and that it has been able to carry out its life and professional projects in our country. I feel proud to have had President Montilla as President of the Catalans. I feel proud to have a head of opposition hidden from Jerez de la Frontera. I'm proud to have a counselor whose parents are Moroccans. I feel proud that there is this plurality of languages, of destiny, of different origins, because that makes us who we are. We have always been like this, and this is the strength – this is the strength – and the vitality of Catalans. We will always defend the right of all Catalans, because it seems to me that it is the most essential point, social cohesion seems to me to be going this way. And I also... look, today I would also like to especially aggravate two interventions that were there last week. One, that of Mr. Daniel Salinero, president of the Federation of Andalusian Cultural Entities of Catalonia, said the following: "I don't think there is a violation of the rights particularly of Andalusians. What I think there is is an important concern in Catalan society, and that we all have the obligation to try and solve it. I'm Catalan, I'm president of Andalusians in Catalonia, and I think there's a problem. The problem is that we have people who are in prison and in a court of law. I would like to thank President Montilla again for the tweet of President Montilla, who said : « We do not understand statements that are missing from the truth and that only contribute to the confrontation between the peoples of Spain. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.107.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the institutionalized post-truth driven by the Spanish State]] [[317-00073/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, M.Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.108.0	President Torra, good morning. The beginning of the best perjury is difficult to know which is the detergent that leaves the dishes cleaner; but we do know that the low of the ones that October 1st caught thousands of citizens and the low of their accomplices is infinite. The civilian ex-governor will live with regret to know that he will never be able to hold his eyes to the collective truth and dignity, which is not a lesser penalty. The trial of political prisoners has an enormous ethical dimension. Fake witnesses obliterate the repression they ordered and fan of lying a normalized form of expression. These fake witnesses are doing a favor to democracy. The cowards who speak of Fairy in court should use him to clear their mouths, full of false scripts, and to clear their own conscience, crude, low and unworthy. Those who decided "for them and now say they didn't decide anything, those who deny blood and brutality, do a bad favor, do us a bad favor to freedom and public ethics. Now, though, we know that when Spain needs it, President, it's lying and pointing, and it's all right. And that's all because the one who should punish the lie is the same one that gives you a legal airbag because you lie more and better. For the Spanish state, the truth is not fashionable, now it's all worth it, and the public lie is the lesser evil. The State has decided that the one, large and free is above democracy. Zygmunt Bauman, a father of Liquid Modernity, claims that social networks are the echo of our own vision; so this judgment is only the echo of state lies. Forgively Carlo Collodi, the Spanish State is a Pinotxo state, a Pinotxo state that protects its own lie. Faking and post-truth have replaced the idea of a right social and democratic state with a right faking state; the Spanish State is a right faking state. At the farce trial we have seen the post-truth converted into a new form of state rape. Now where are they, ethics and politics? President, what can the government do to protect us from the institutionalized post-truth driven by the Spanish State? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.109.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.110.0	Thank you, Congressman. Indeed, we are witnessing a judge who has changed his mind from fake to shame judgment, and in which day by day we went deeper into these smiles of shame where it seemed impossible to even fall lower, and effectively, we see. The truth is that yesterday's statements, to all Catalans, I think that all Catalans – independenceists, non-independenceists, before voting on October 1 or not before voting on October 1 – make us an authentic and profound shame. Because we all saw that there was no type of violence, neither the first of October nor the 20th of September. And all these falsehoods, which are much more than falsehoods, which are deceptive, and which is proof of an articulation of why from the beginning is precisely intended to articulate all this mountain that has ended up bringing our companions to prison to decapitate, so, effectively, every day they put more of a manifesto. Only recently – only recently – the International Trial Watch has published the second follow-up report, which criticizes the questions – comets – « suggestive of the Ministry of Tax. The Secretary General of the Organization of Nations and Unrepresented Peoples, Ralph Bunche, is very concerned about the trial for the first October. The International Commission of Jurists warns that a conviction can undermine confidence in the state of law in Spain. I, to quote an international prestige media, Le Monde: "The judgment of the Catalan separatists is disinflation. The Government of Catalonia will follow the Catalans. We'll be popular in all the courts that Catalonia is doing and is shooting at Catalans who have been assaulted by the National Police or by civilian guards; there are. The Government of Catalonia will always be, in all its external action, manifesting what is happening in Catalonia: the violation of our human and civil rights, the violation of the right to self-determination in Catalonia. I'm doing it, I'm doing it, I'm doing it, I'm doing it, President Puigdemont, we're doing the whole government. We have to turn ourselves into the altarpieces of our companies, to manifest what is actually going on in this disgraceful judgment, which we should fall..., shame, above all all the deputies we are in this chamber. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.111.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the handling of the proposed law on measures for the prevention and treatment of child abuse]] [[317-00068/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.112.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, in December we celebrated a plenary on children requested by Citizens, where I insisted, among other issues, on a topic that worries us, that is sexual abuse of minors. Citizens had introduced a law against child abuse and abuse; but yesterday we knew that the groups supporting the Government had tabled an amendment to the whole, so that this law could not be discussed. I ask you: do you agree that this law should be blocked in Parliament?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.113.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.114.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Member. What we always try, when there is any bill of law, when we also present things – see 'the elaboration of the assumptions', is to talk to people before, try to seek consensus. We work for the dialog, not to present... – and if you don't notice, you will allow me to continue –, we work for the dialog, we work for consensus, we work to find precisely these great majorities that are in this Parliament and in Catalan society. And, therefore, we, before this law, will study it, look at it, and make the decision that we think appropriate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.115.0	Thank you, President. To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.116.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker have not been recorded.]] ... of dialogue is to present an amendment to the whole. Either you do not know how the parliamentary debate is going or you have a very rare, very rare view on the subject of dialogue. Look, we have a serious problem in Catalonia – if you listen to me, Mr. Torra, and if you don't have to go and tell me what you're going to answer later –: 17_per_cent of the Catalan population has suffered sexual violence in their childhood, we continue to know horrifying cases, many victims explain that they have felt helpless and that there are many issues to improve since the Administration, such as the Generalitat, not only in the prevention of these cases, but also, in the detection, reporting and reporting of justice, in the protocols of action, in the protection of families or simply in the reporting processes of minors, who sometimes have to declare up to ten times. The Generalitat does nothing, and has competence in child protection, but also in education, health and justice, among others. Look, two years ago we introduced a law that addressed these same issues, and do you know what the independence groups did? : they blocked it, so that it could not even be discussed. According to Save the Children, the main problem of victims of abuse in Catalonia is the lack of coordination between the departments of the Generalitat. Is that why it's also Madrid's fault, Mr. Torra? The government's inaction in child policies is outrageous. The Children's Act is from 2010, and you haven't deployed it. The single register of child abuse had to be done in 2007, and you have not yet done so. Our law incorporates recommendations from these entities, but we want it to be expanded and improved by all parliamentary groups: we want experts to come, professionals to come, entities to come, officials to come, and also representatives of victims. This law will be of the whole Parliament, it will not be a law of Citizens; do not block it simply because we have introduced it. You are obsessed with one theme, with the only theme, but you don't want to talk about other people's problems. They close Parliament when they want to and block opposition initiatives. I hope, Mr Torra, that your parliamentary groups will withdraw the amendment, because they have already lost us enough time in those eight months of the inaction of your Government of the Generalitat. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.117.0	To answer you have the word again the president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.118.0	Yes, thank you, President. Miri, for us, for this government, the defense of minors is an absolute priority, as is the defense of the most destitute people. It has no sense of government action if it does not direct its action to the people and people who need it most and, therefore, in this case, minors, persons with disabilities. I assure you that this is a priority and I would say that even my own personal and, therefore, the struggle against these sexual assaults calls on all of us, not just the Administration, to all the institutions, to all the entities. We encourage you to report and we appreciate the courage you have to report these cases, because we want to tolerate zero with these sexual assaults. We have led to a modification, you know, of the terms of limitation of crimes since the Generality and this Parliament, unfortunately, as in so many other things, do not have the powers to modify the Penal Code. We suggested we do and we pushed for a normal change, counsel, thanks, because the crimes prescribed from the 30 years of the victim and, therefore, this change seems to have been collected into a preliminary draft of the law of the Government of Sánchez and we will rejoice. We're going to pass a strong protocol against maltreatment. We recognize and have given clear instructions to Education, also to the Education Council, of zero tolerance and to all territorial services and to the Education Inspectorate, the departments are at the disposal of families because if any family ever thinks that they have any situation that they need to report to the Government of the Generality, that we will listen to them, that we will be at their side, and that we will work because we can never pass this more to Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.119.0	Thank you, President. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia to support victims of child sexual abuse]] [[401-00010/12]] Once the control session is over, we pass now to the next point of the order of the day. Before, however, we will read the declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia to support victims of child sexual abuse. Statement that you will read – therefore, ask that you do – the first secretary of the Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.120.0	« Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia to support victims of child sexual abuse. Sexual abuse is one of the worst forms of violence in childhood, with hard consequences that can last a lifetime. 2017 is due to present Catalonia 549 complaints of sexual abuse of children. The 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the regulations in force in the field of childhood recognize the right of children and adolescents to be protected from any form of violence, including sexual abuse, and establish the right of public authorities to take measures to ensure that this protection remains effective. The Children's Rights Committee defines child sexual abuse and exploitation in greater detail. Many infants suffer from sexual abuse which, while the aggressors do not take physical force or coercion, are intrusive, oppressive and traumatic from the psychological point of view. More than in other forms of rape, child sexual abuse is characterized by the victim's secrecy and isolation, often because the aggressor exercises a position of strength and authority before the child being assaulted. It is for this reason that most of the hidden Roman cases and the ones that are revealed are found with a sequence of difficulties that add more pain and patience to the victims. In the past few months, we have seen cases of adults who have suffered sexual abuse during childhood and who have to reflect on the importance of detection, approach, complaint and visibility of these cases. The Parliament of Catalonia is a committed institution in the fight against child sexual abuse. As a result and before the complaints of victims made in the last years, and concretely in the last months, condemn and repudiate any type of aggression, abuse or ill-treatment against infants. The Parliament of Catalonia shows its support for victims of child sexual abuse and their families, and expresses its solidarity with them. On the other hand, the Catalonian Parliament urges all institutions to take on the obligation to comply with general comment No. 13 of the Committee on Children's Rights and, therefore, to promote preventive, detection and follow-up measures so that these situations do not happen again in the school, religious or youthful spheres or in the family sphere. Thus, the Parliament of Catalonia asks all the competent institutions and bodies to carry out the relevant investigations and actions before cases of sexual abuse, to communicate them to the judicial authorities and to cooperate fully with the justice system to clarify them. Finally, the Parliament of Catalonia condemns the words and attitudes that purport to remain grave to sexual abuse committed by some priests and asks the Church to communicate to the justice order the cases of possible sexual abuse of those she has known. Palau del Parlament, March 4, 2019. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.121.0	Thank you very much. [[Decree Ill 2/2019, of the 22nd generation, amending the Law 22/2010, of 20 July, of the Code of consumption of Catalonia, in order to incorporate measures against the disruptions of food conduct]] [[203-00010/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The second point is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 2/2019, of the 22nd generation, amending the Law 22/2010, of 20 July, of the Code of consumption of Catalonia in order to incorporate measures against the disruptions of food behavior. In accordance with Article 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Enterprise and Knowledge Council shall first intervene to set out the reasons for which this Decree has been promulgated. When he wants to, he'll advise. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.122.0	Thank you, President. The Executive Board approved, on February 22, this decree amending the Code of Consumption of Catalonia, with the aim of providing the Generality with a legal framework to be able to prosecute and sanction the contents that advocate food disorders, such as anorexia and bulimia, on the Internet. Food disruptions are a scourge of our society, which punishes especially the heaviest of teenagers and young people, and which, due to the social pressure we still suffer from women, is especially prevalent in young girls. Affects around 5_per_cent of young people and an 11_per_cent presents symptoms of high risk of experiencing them. According to data from the Association against Anorexia and Bulimia, in Catalonia, 28,000 adolescents and young people suffer from some type of food disorder. In this scene, social networks, in general, the internet, pose a high risk factor for accessibility and accessibility. The Internet, therefore, can become an altarpiece of harmful contents that advocates harmful conducts for salvation, directed especially to the most vulnerable psychologically. In this context, this decree is the result of a consensus, the consent of all the agents involved, and also the fruit of the task that began in 2012 with the creation of the Dialeg Table for the prevention of Food Conduct Disorders, a table that brings together different departments of the Generality and also a wide spectrum of social agents both from the business world, as from the university world and from private foundations of health promotion, with the will to age and intervene in these social and consumer factors that impact on the proliferation of this type of disease. It established this table three very definite objectives. The first, build a positive and healthy body image across all sectors from fostering a cos ideal based on health and well-being, and not on appearance. Secondly, to work in a coordinated way on the different sectors, the health sector, education, business, communication media, to redefine realistic strategies for preventing these diseases. In the third place, convey the debate of the society, so as to raise awareness of the importance of preventing the difficult problem of the disruptions of food conduct and, in general, of the disruptions related to the image and the pesso. On 20 July 2017, during the plenary session of the dialogue table, the need to adopt protective and preventive measures was expressed, and the Government of the Generality was urged to provide legal tools to act. This draft decree contains the preamble, seven articles, two final provisions, and which are added to the following legal changes in the subject matter of the Consumer Code. In the first place, concrete definition of food disruption to the effects of the Code of consumption, and understands as such anorexia and bulimia, among others. Secondly, it is embedded in the collections that require special protection for people who are likely to suffer food disorders such as anorexia, bulimia, in consumer relations. In the third place, the obligation to avoid long-term activities related to the inn in the goods market and to encourage or induce consumers to have unhealthy habits from which food disorders can occur is introduced in the dues to be completed. It is especially typified as a heavy offence of the Code of consumption, the fact of carrying out activities of promotion, advertising, offer or any other than encouraging or induced to people consuming the adoption of related habits, such as food disorders, such as anorexia and bulimia. As the crime is difficult it will be able to punish with many up to 100,000 euros. The intermediaries also expand in the information society's services the responsibility for the truthfulness and legality of the information they publish regarding the scope of food disruptions. Thus, it is the responsibility of companies that offer web hosting to these types of pages, blogs or websites that are known to be hosting incentive content of food conduct disorders and do not act to remove them. In addition to the above modification, it is also established that persons, digital placards or online services who cooperate or cover up an infringing conduct relating to the scope of food conduct disorders are responsible for this as co-operators or coverts. Therefore, this modification of the Consumer Code will allow to monitor, investigate and, if this is the case, sanction companies, placards and digital servers that, while having knowledge of the existence of this type of content in their placards, do not need to take action to eliminate them. As I said, the fines can be up to 100,000 euros. And when we talk about these changes, we have to do this with co-responsibility, which the networks also have. The type of anorexia and nerve bulimia in the network, colloquially known as "pro Ana i" pro Mia, from different websites, sites, sites and other social networks has become one of the most consulted and dangerous risk factors. As a graphical example, if 2010 we search the Internet for the word "anorexia" we exit, 2010, 3_million results. If we close them today, forgive me, three million results. Yeah. If we close it today, 13 million results. This Dialeg Table for the Prevention of Food Conduct Disorders, led by the Catalan Consumer Agency, also exposes a series of troubling data. Food disorders are the third chronic disease among adolescents. In Catalonia there are 28,000 teenagers and young people who suffer from some kind of food disruption. Affects 5_percent of young people. An 11_per_cent realizes high-risk Internet pipelines. A 59_per_cent of the malalts access it via the Internet. The middle age of the consultations is fifteen years and a half. 87 percent of families do not know that their children do these consultations. And mortality, in cases of anorexia and bulimia, is at 5_per_cent. For this reason we call for the vote of all groups in the validation of this decree, since it is an instrument that will allow us to act legally against the dissemination of these contents in the network, and it places us, like the Administration and like the country, in the face of this struggle. We trust that with Parliament's support, this reform will contribute to generating a favourable state of opinion among all governments at international level in the fight against the rise of the disruptions of food conduct to the Internet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.123.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then we move on to the intervention of the parliamentary groups. To fix his position, with a limit of two minutes, has, first of all, the word the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.124.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselors, counselors, deputies and deputies..., princesses, princesses of porcelain, which is how we can find it said to the Internet, to the social networks that you, therefore, explained, to these girls affected by these processes, to these malalties, victims of a society, victims of a malalty. And it is estimated that Spain has around 400,000 people affected by anorexia, of whom around 90_% are women, and every time more men are also in the disease, with an important degree of lethality. The origin you know is multifactorial, but it undoubtedly has a lot of a system, of a society that advocates a beautiful, an eternal youth, an exaltation of the body. That in Catalonia it is estimated that the eating disorders affect around 5_% of the young and adolescent population, and therefore each school has at least one case patint-ho, affected. And we can see it the same way on television, we can see it doing a simple and simple search of the networks and the internet, and it is that discrimination, as we feel this morning also at the control session today in Parliament, is present even at the later congress, that of Mobile, has not been an exception to this either. In our turn: in France, it has been legislated, for example, with the law of modernising sanitation, which attacks frontally the canons of beautiful artificially imposed. In this sense, they have worked on the themes of commercial photographs, retouched photographs, model profession. Or in Italy, there is now also the debate, where they are working to ban these web pages, as we are speaking in this decree today, the « pro Ana e « pro Mia, including with prison feathers. Therefore, we know that there is currently a lack of studies, lack of research and, obviously, need to enhance all available resources to be able to work more and better. Also, certainly, from a perspective of a strategy of mental salvation, we always call for more resources. To do so... it is essential to do so with an absolutely global, multilevel strategy. Therefore, we are doing well here today in the Parliament of Catalonia, but we are also doing well at the national level, at the state government, and obviously making a projection of Europe. To prepare this I entered, as I said, to look at which are the main web pages, and the first one is entitled: "Learn to vomit, princess of porcelain. This is the page, the most unhappily visited page on the subject, and obviously from its contents I will not comment on it; you will find it by doing this close to Google. But I do want to do it in the second place, "Tricks and tips. I'll mention some d'ells: "You can use an elastic band in your hand, and every time you want to eat, pull it out. So you'll know that food is equivalent to pain. Put you on blogs like this, Pro-Mia, to kill time and not think about eating. If you like food too much, if you have an insurmountable appetite, make it – with axe, by the way – "soap or something non-toxic. That's how you're gonna give it back to the second time you put it in your mouth, and the next time you see it or smell it, it'll just disgust you. Cuts out your figures or models that come out in magazines and prints and hangs. Let your hobby become yours. If you go to school – I repeat – « if you go to school, at the time of the snack say you ate at home, and at your home say you did it at school. It's absolutely heartbreaking. To finish this part, brief comments. « Do not purge yourself more than once a day. « If you are going to vomit, you can open the watering, or put on strong music. So you won't let them listen to you. That's what's happening to these girls. « If for some reason the bathroom is busy, or they are realizing what you are doing, carry a bucket or a tub and vomit in it, and in the morning, when no one sees what you are doing.... Follow with whom I do not want to read, who are instructions to help learn to vomit these babies, these children. What is clear is that from Citizens we will do everything we can to avoid more victims of this calamity. And to do so, as I said, we will do it here; we will do it at national level; we will do it in Europe; because here, at autonomous level, we also, as is clear, have a competition problem. And it's that what's not online... could be talking to a deputy from the escho, for example, about the Public Health Act, we could talk about giving it a healthier approach, because here we can, as you say, sanction, investigate, report. Now, as what I was reading is obvious that it has an absolutely Latin American touch, it's not even as written here, it's far away, so much so that all that is internet regulation also requires a transposition of European directives, requires much more than we can obviously do today. Now, without giving up any effort – whatever effort you also have to make – I think a government has some tools to do a little bit more than what it has to do with this decree today. But well, in any case, it is obvious that we would always vote for these questions, because we are neither the first nor the last. Because our proposal from Ciutadans... – I imagine you read it – and it is that the later proposal discussed, in broad, consensual terms, at the Congress of Deputies in Madrid, a long time ago was debated for all groups, for almost all groups of this chamber, those who have representation in Madrid, and it was voted in favour for all of you. And we came from Ciutadans to great consensus; consensuss, as I say, that focus politics on this issue in a multidisciplinary approach, that is how we think things should be done. And that some of the main axes are like those you are also wearing today: advertising themes, for example, informing of the retouching of photos, which is what you are doing in France, with criteria of veracity; punishing the conduits that encourage food disruptions, these web pages« for Ana, « for Mia – for anorexia and for bulimia», because it is also regular, and so we have approved, model activity. We need to talk, why not, about what happened to Mobile and about hostesse discrimination. It is necessary to avoid the promotion of beautiful ideals that are unreal, inaccessible, absolutely distorted. We also need to give a health approach. It must also be done from the perspective of mental salvation: searching, recollection, equipping the workers of mental salvation with mitjans. But, for me, the one who has always heard me say – and I will insist I grow, all my life – the most important: education. Such informational campaigns, supporting AMPAs, supporting associations, providing education focused on the values of respect and equality. And, therefore, from all these axes, no doubt, we will today support this decree, even though, I insist, it is paradoxical that something so important, so complex, is passed by decree. In this case, it must be recognized that the old politics unfortunately end up doing the same thing all the time. Because a government could do much more by law, because by doing so, we could provide cross-cutting, agreed, better solutions in the sector. Therefore, we would have been allowed to deal with all of this. But, of course, today will remain this decree linked to the Consumer Law. Therefore, it will not allow a much more accurate, much more accurate, much more transversal approach, I insist. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, in any case, all our support to contribute to the better of everything related to the disruptions of food conduct, even though it is a small step today what we are doing here in the Parliament of Catalonia. We will continue to take these steps, here, to the Government of Spain and, as not, also to the heart of Europe. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.125.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, for the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Forward Units, the MP Assumpta Escarp has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.126.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the disruptions of eating behavior, I think today we've been talking about it, they're mental disorders and behavior. They are the result of the interaction of many causes of biological, psychological, family, social, educational and cultural origin. Anorexia and bulimia have multiple causes, but above all they have hard effects on health and require a multi-disciplinary, cross-cutting and comprehensive approach that is unfortunately not what we find on the table today. A lot of data has been donated. I would only point out one more: it is the third most chronic disease prevalent in teenage women. Remember that the mortality rate is 5_%, and that it is an avoidable mortality. And what's more troubling is that there are 11_% of teenagers who are performing risk behaviors that can lead them to suffer a behavior disorder, a food disorder. We share the need to do, as the counselor explained, and we share the urgency. The decree emerges from the conclusions of the Diàleg Table for the Prevention of the Distortions of Food Conduct, a cross-sectional table, where there are the departments of the Generality, entrepreneurs, private foundations promoting health and the university world. Transversal, I insist, which is not the proposal today. In July 2017, the table presented a series of recommendations on the apology of disruptions, but it also asked the Government for two things, and the Government made two commitments: one, the Health Department had to amend the Law on Public Health, and two, the Catalan Consumer Agency had to amend the Consumer Code, which is where today we are, in order to monitor, investigate, and, if that is the case, sanction companies, platforms and digital servers that, while having knowledge of the existence of these types of content, do not need to take action to eliminate them. I'd like to put in evidence a couple of things. First, the recommendations are from July 2007 and are in March 19. So, when we justify emergencies, we really talk about emergencies. Secondly, the Department of Health disappears at the length of all the dispatch we see; we don't know anything about it, we don't know if they're completing the modification that was required by the Law of Public Salvation. We know that in the justification report and in the statement of reasons issued this compromise; then, forwarding it to within the departments of the Generality and there is a time when the whole reference to the Department of Health and the agency and the modification of the Law of Public Salvation comes out. I want to think it's a suppressed phrase. I don't want to think it's an inhibition of the Health Department in this mess, because then we'd be talking about something very difficult, bearing in mind that Article 55 of the existing Public Health Act already enables them to act, even allowing them to control advertising and advertising of products and activities that may affect salvation. But it is that, in search of it, I have not been able to find either in the Pla de salud or in the Pla de salud mentale and add any reference to the disruptions we are talking about today. If we have a cross-cutting dialogue table, I think we should have a cross-cutting action programme, and complete commitments and make legislative changes in all of the departments that should address it. And in women's time, I'd like to remind you that there are nine girls for each of us affected who will have this disease, and that it's a chronic disease. Entering the decree, I already told them that for me there is neither a comprehensive nor a cross-sectional approach. In any case, it does so in the field of consumption. There is one thing I am concerned about, that in studies and reports that refer to justified reports only offer concrete data on anorexia and bulimia to the internet, understood as web pages and blogs, and very few data on the scope of social networks. There is some decontextualization in these data. Not to mention social networks with great impact in this area as Facebook and Instagram are concerned. Instagram has more than seven hundred_million users, great popularity among teenage women, and many of the labels and references to which ugly reference before Congressman Jorge Soler are viral labels of cases of apology of food disorders, and which are increasing. I seem to have decreased the index on web pages, and, in change, the use of Instagram and Facebook is greatly increased. Instagram..., it is important to examine ways to reduce any negative effects of this social media platform, because it is based on image – and here we talk a lot about images – and that is where there is an internalization of the ideal of social beauty and the comparison of physical appearance with celebrities on Instagram. This is a fact that all of us who have been children's mothers have always looked at each other. The modifications in the consumer code that are proposed do not identify any measure for the investigation, for other band, necessary, in cases of iniciaries, of offices of web pages, blogs or social networks. And we still have a doubt of the resources we can count on to complete these modifications. I don't know if she would advise us later. However, in any case, to investigate, prosecute and punish resources will be needed, we do not know whether the agency counts or not, but in any case, we do have a possibility; we have the possibility to prove the effectiveness of this decree by suspending the complaints lodged by the ACC, because one thing is clear: if we ban without real mechanisms to do so, we will only generate more frustration to those who suffer from it and to their families, basically. And I'd like to finish by making a note about the ACC and congratulate the task, with the two reports on Internet contents, that you've made on anorexia and bulimia. The year 2005 made a first report that was filed due to a lack of legal framework applicable; for this reason the need and urgency of what we are doing today. 2017 made another report, and on this occasion the ACC did what it did..., it directed directly to the suppliers of the contents and got the elimination of fourteen contents of the seven that had been detected, which is a great job on the part of the body we are talking about. Now, and to the emperor of this decree, he has denounced seven contents that are still visible, seven contents that make a habitual and repeated use of concepts like the princess, as said the deputy Jorge Soler, or "friends Ana and Mia, incite unhealthy habits, purgative diets, self-lesive or suicidal conducts and explain great strategies to hide the disruption to families. Let us hope, therefore, that with the resolution of this complaint by the CAC and of these seven contents, the decree can be implemented and, therefore, it is done with those contents that are now denounced. We hope that this task will not be left to us and that in the future we will continue to think in a comprehensive and cross-cutting way: they owe it to the people who suffer the disruptions, to them and to their families. It is obvious that changes of this natural nature do not admit a single look, admit a global look, that goes from education to salvation, for the middle there is the society of information, but either we approach it in a global way or we will hardly get out of it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.127.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is Deputy Marta Ribas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.128.0	Thank you. Good morning. Anorexia and bulimia, it has been said, have multiple causes, yes, but there is an element of foundation that we would like to emphasize, especially one day as today: they are two brutal expressions of the impact that they have on our bodies and on our salvation the values of a patriarchal and capitalist society; values that cause malalty, values that cause death, and so on. The cult to the body of tiny sizes, obsessed with the fish, to sell 'nsdietes, for a stereotyped image, false, unreal, inculcated for an industry not always with lawful objectives, is at the root of the cause of these two diseases. Business interests must be compatible with health and, when they are not, they must set limits from the public administration and face all the mechanisms that we have at our disposal. Food disorders represent the third most prevalent chronic disease among adolescent women. We know that 5_percent of the teenage and young people of Catalonia are suffering, that new to each of these people who are suffering from it are young and that the mortality rate of these disorders is still 5_percent today. Therefore, we are ahead of a phenomenon with a strong influence on salvation, on the life itself of young people and with a strong gender impact. Our parliamentary group supports a concrete measure, which we are considering today, to validate this decree amending the Consumer Code and which will be an instrument of struggle against the spread of content that promotes and advocates anorexia and bulimia to the internet, social media or advertising. We are glad that the incidence of family organizations and people affected by food disorders, as well as of professionals involved in food disorders, gives fruit and we can develop mechanisms managed to deal with a phenomenon that has proliferated over the years through networks with total impunity. We are therefore grateful to the entities that have participated..., to the professionals and professionals who have participated in this Dialeg Table for the Prevention of the Distortions of Food Conduct and to the Consumer Agency for the impulse of this modification of the Consumer Code. And we welcome the fact that we are approving it in Parliament on the week of March 8, because it is important that we present a manifesto, as I wanted to start and have started my intervention, this difficult impact of genera that have these disorders, these diseases, all the while, to say the least, it should have been on the 8th of March of last year, bearing in mind that the conclusions of the Dialeg Table for the Prevention of ASD are a year and a half ago. Let's get to the concrete. The measures incorporated in this decree are justified in our opinion in this need to pursue, punish, make disappear contents of apology of anorexy and bulimia that are made to web pages, groups of social networks, certain companies, advertisements. We cannot allow the dissemination of information that is highly harmful to salvation, where advice is given to embalm or even to die circulates in an unpunished way and at the abst of our young people. The approach to contingencies for Ana and Mia is a truly striking experience; regrettable contingencies, but I will not cooperate in spreading from this rostrum. I believe that the role that surrounds us in this Parliament is to lay down solutions, to legislate, to guarantee rights, and not to make it easier for those who attack us. The cosification of women and genera's mandates with whom the world of body image or determined industries of fashion and beauty have intoxicated our imaginary collections have affected for decades the collections of girls who, at that time, especially in adolescence, are building their identity and relationship with their own. How can I cope with the image's tyranny with the fragility of twelve years of age? What way are we protecting this childhood and this adolescence from cult to body, a cult to healthy people, that permeates all this image, publicity and diffusion for networks? We trust the government to be diligent in what we are approving today in this decree and what this decree allows them to do, which is to prosecute and punish. Diligence for us will be that immediately, for example, we attack these seven contents denounced in the last report of the ACC. Diligence. We ask them to believe their own standards and to execute them effectively, to govern. We have often seen many doubts, few initiatives, or little initiative, when it was a matter of opening sanctioning shippers to companies, commercial interests, business interests, even if they attack things that our laws consider very difficult offences. Let's hope it's not the case that happens to us with this decree. The decree refers to 'coverers and cooperators', two very interesting figures who give us the margin to act before digital plataforms where these contents are diffused. But it is also to cover up or cooperate if it does not act with sanctioning competence. The decree, therefore, must ensure that the contents "for Ana and "for Mia", of the apologia of anorexia and bulimia, disappear from the network. We must protect public salvation and above all we must protect minors and guarantee their right to salvation, their right to live free of rapes and environmental and social attacks on their property. These punitive measures, in our view, are an important step, a necessary step, but insufficient. It shows the same data from the study prepared for the table that has promoted that there is today this decree: the vast majority of people looking for these contents, 85_per_cent, are young. And we will not only end up with this impact with certain contents of the networks; that, for families, tools to accompany girls and children to be able to detect the influence of these contents of the network on their conduct; that elements, educational measures, better prevention, better follow-up of adolescents who have already fallen into these diseases, and also prevent them from proliferating, obviously, these pages, which are important, but there is much more to do, much more to do. The other main conclusion of the cross-sectional work table, for example. There were two: one was this modification of the Consumer Code, the other was the need to amend Law 18/2009, of public health, in this article 55, which has already been mentioned before, to facilitate even more that the Generalitat can act from the administrative sphere with the same effectiveness, or more, than the penalty in the control of advertising, advertising and products and activities that may be relevant to health. We have no news that progress is being made in this other conclusion of this table; conclusions, let us recall, of July 2017. We're complaining, Counselor, since you're here, news is coming. Eliminating the disruptions of modern societies such as anorexia and bulimia should not be a utopia; we need to pose as public powers and as society, we need to pose ourselves because it is an effective intervention if we all pose ourselves and if we pose ourselves with all the causes that generate these disruptions of food behavior. What we're doing is small steps to cover up an emergence, but we're not solving the problem. In this sense, addressing the disruptions of food conduct requires a compromise of cross-cutting action in the field of prevention that also changes the structural causes, which reside in this model of patriarchal and neoliberal society. And this week it's very important that we also have this theme present, on the week of March 8. I count on us to develop any type of legislative measure necessary to fight against anorexia and against bulimia. Today we have done so; we know that we have done so also through other previous laws, such as the Law of Equality, such as those of masculinist rapes, but that we want the attack to continue to develop instruments that attack these structural causes, that intend to make this structural change in our model of society, because we arrive at a world, a society, a country in which to estimate our bodies, whether normal or diverse, of large sizes or small sizes, is an experience that embraces us without being mentally intoxicated. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.129.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed; the deputy Maria Sirvent has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.130.0	Well, let's see as one of the structural causes of patriarchal violence is violence against the bodies and the salvation of the women; it is precisely the control of sexuality and of the bodies of the women; the promotion of an impossible and unreal model of a woman, a bombardment of messages that are repeated and that seek to seize us, treat us as objects and keep us under control. Because they know. They know that if we rebel, the system trembles; because if we claim to be subject, they, the men, see their privileges fall. In Naomi Wolf's words, "a culture obsessed with female thinness is not obsessed with the beauty of women, it is obsessed with the obedience of women. Aesthetic pressure and symbolic violence is male violence. Some very small ones teach us to keep us premium, beautiful, submissive and perfect. This is how a system exists that precisely survives based on inequalities and the misery of working women. We jutgen for appearance, as objects. The women socialize with us every day under this violence. And while the system survives, we are still being killed, also by aesthetic pressure, also on the basis of this symbolic violence that affects our self-confidence, our self-esteem, our personal security; a violence that generates our disaffection towards our own and that affects us, and so much, in our interpersonal relationships. How can you tell us that it's a successful system that survives violence against women? How can we talk about freedom in the patriarchal capitalist system, in a system that needs this constant coercion against women? How do they talk about freedom in a system that fosters this violence and forces us, precisely women, to live with it? , to convince him, of course, if this one doesn't kill us before. We live with her in school, in the street, at home, and above all at work, where she is often classified according to our appearance. I don't know if any of you have worked as a hostess at Mobile World Congress, but we could know very well what this reality is and how it reproduces every day. And it is that, for patriarchal capitalism, life is a means to reproduce that same capital, and not a finality in itself. We want princes, delicacy, education, but what they want is that we continue to submit, that we continue to sacrifice for what they say in love and is exploitation. What they want us to do is obey, before the risk that they pose to the privileges of the heterosexual and high-class white men that the women organize us, raise us up and rebel us to a system that wants to turn us into objects. And it's that they keep telling us that we're in a free society, in a society of equals, but actually the only right subject is white, heterosexual, and high-class man. We just have to look up here, that it's not just empty, but a few minutes ago it was all full of white, straight, high-class men. Because this society relegates us to all the rest, as Simone de Beauvoir said, to alterity, is to say, not to be subject, but to be the others. And the challenge is that we become subjects of transformation, of change, because without us, without women, there is no social transformation. And that's why we'll organize ourselves. We will organize ourselves in places, in villas, in the barrels and in cities, by means of vagrancy committees, by re-appropriating the public space – because, yes, the public space is also ours – against a murderous system, against complicit institutions and executioners. And we have a general vagueness, we don't have to deal with the employer. We, the working women, go to the mainstream and reject liberal feminism. And we'll make our thing a trench, because, as Silvia Federici said, "the thing is to women that factory men, it's their main land of exploitation, but it's also their main land of resistance. We'll make our own a trench, you'll always be. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.131.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.132.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselors, MPs and MPs, maybe I should start asking for forgiveness for being a man and heterosexual, but I didn't pick it either, I found it that way, didn't I? And, therefore, from this position, that they do not pretend to be superior to anyone, but in a plan of absolute equality, we will defend our position on this decree law that they intend to address in part – and I have already introduced here an element – the problem, the difficult problem of eating disorders. The first thing we're used to doing, when we're on top of a government law decree, is seeing what it's about that the formula of the law decree has been used, which is a formula reserved for cases of extraordinary and urgent need. So, one starts analyzing the shipment, and you see what's leading the government to dictate this rule, and what are the origins, right? And, certainly, the origins – it has already been mentioned, it has already been mentioned – are in the Dialeg Table for the Prevention of Food Conduct Disorders, and, concretely, in a document that was published on July 20, 2017. Then one thinks and says: "Well, from July 2017 to the generation of 2019, which is when the decree is issued, man, the government has already had the opportunity to initiate the ordinary legislative process. We find some other interesting data, but it is also around July 2017, which is the last report of the Audiovisual Council, in relation to the existence of websites and social networks in which it is apologizing for these disorders and which, in some way, unfortunately, involve certain people to acquire these bad habits, to acquire these additions. It's cost us enough, huh? try to find what real justification the government had to use the formula of the law decree to deal with this issue and to make this modification of the Consumer Code. In the end we found it, but we found it precisely in constitutional jurisprudence – you see what things are – which, apart from the cases of urgency and extraordinary need, says that it is also possible to issue a decree when there is evidence of inactivity of the government. Well, so yes, that's the real reason why this change in the Code of consumption us up by decree of the law: because there has been inactivity of the government. Therefore, man, let us also celebrate that the government, or that it is implicitly, recognizes this inactivity using, therefore, the passage of the decree law. And this leads me to introduce the second element – it was said, on the part of some other Member – which refers to that we are not addressing the complete problem of eating disorders with only a modification of the Code of consumption. Clearly, the first surprise is, when we talk about this type of disruption, that comes out – with all due respect, obviously – the company's advisor and, in change, does not appear to us – and what is present, huh? , and we celebrate that you are here – the Health Counselor, when, surely, if we look at the effects of the eating disorder from a more transversal point of view, we will see that there is surely much more relationship and much more need for activity on the part of the Government of the Health Department. What does it look like? So, man, I think there's got to be three aspects to it, and there wouldn't be a fourth, collateral, important, that's prevention. And in this decree you approach a small part of the prevention, but you also have to approach the diagnostic, because it is often not easy to get to a diagnostic of a TCA. I, in third place, the treatment. And here are health workers, from pediatricians to mental health workers, psychology, trunks precisely, surely, the heaviest of primary care, and, therefore, that would require a treatment by the Department of Health much more transversal than all this problem. But there is also another element – collateral, but important – that is how families deal with a person with a eating disorder; how they manage these situations and how they help reduce the occurrence of these situations. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Therefore, hoping that the government will break this inactivity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.133.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.134.0	...recognized by this decree, and addressing the problem in a cross-cutting and joint manner, for now we will support this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.135.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Caula has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.136.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. I think that today we are talking about a decree that puts us on the table solutions; solutions of those that in this hemisphere many times ask, cross-cutting solutions, practical solutions, solutions that allow us to act in a quick and direct way on a problem that we have on the table. This table they've given us, which was..., or part of a joint job, where everyone is represented, where everyone has brought their appreciation, and I think the government that has done together is acting. This transversality seen as the government not fragmented, but the government working cooperatively. I think the Department of Health and the Department of Enterprise are analyzing and appreciating which is the most effective tool, which is the fastest tool that can be found to tackle this problem, and, with the two agreed advices, is processed, therefore, from this decree law that caps it or leaves the Department of Enterprise. We talk all the time... Ah, well, I might remind Mr. Santi Rodriguez that I think you thank God that this world is complementary, that men and women are all welcome, because really, if we don't face this debate from a plural perspective and where all parties feel involved, we would find a bad solution. And we also remember that this last year we've been through things; that this last year and we've still been able to live the application of an article 155 that we never thought we'd see in a democratic society. They're still talking, aren't they? Many times we come out here and we segment in excess, we segment even as problematic as you did, and this is one of those that we shouldn't segment, and that we should go look at a little bit of this substrate that we barely have before this pathology we're talking about. And we don't find a modification of a gene, we don't find a modification of a protein that doesn't work properly, but what we find is a psychological base, it's an educational base, it's a cultural base, it leads us to a reflection like society and not addressed only from the face of salvation. We've all been after very little that our paper to the tale, until very little, was to be the princesses, huh? Those who were to be saved. We are very used to being defined many times by adjectives that simply value our physical abilities. We are those who do not have representation in the text books, who are more than 80_percent of the names that appear in them are of men. The women who appear there often appear with the wife, with the wife or with, at last, lovers of men who may be there. All this marks, marks this existence from the beginning to the end. What's behind this disease we're talking about? There is this impossible ideal, this control of the image and the pes, this control that many times uses as a tool to control life; as a woman it is the element that you have been taught to control, that it is this external image that you promote, this image that conditions us, and conditions us very much. If the people couldn't see the report they did to TV3 yesterday, which I think was plural, it was cross-sectional, which said, "What are the women complaining about? ...I think he donated a lot of data that we have to reflect on. They say to us: "Thirty-six thoughts negatio about our physical appearance. Who? The ladies. In men, that usually doesn't happen. Apart from bulimia and all the disorders of the behavior that we are analyzing today, they brought us another data: 88_per_cent of aesthetic surgery users are women, and behind this substrate we always find the same, this cosification, this way of hearing the right way to be a woman. This objective that I think we set up and that also started from this table of prevention talked about how to build a positive and healthy body image among all actors. Therefore, I understand that the Government is attacking it from this point of view, in a transversal way, in a way that must involve all the councils: Enterprise, Greeting, Social Affairs and all those who, for a short time, can intervene, because we cannot only address the disease when it is already malalty, but probably, like society, what we have to do is to approach it from the ground, to approach it because it is not really a malalty. Adding myself to the demand made by Congresswoman Escarp. This decree speaks to us a lot and gives us a very effective tool to intervene, so, in web and dissemination plans, as well, it is true that we have a level of analysis..., what happens to social networks; what happens above all to Instagram and the use that is being done, because it is actually a promotion that may be wrong from what we would like to export. And from here on out, I think the different departments work in position, work in prevention, work in building. We find it from this connection to the Department of Education, in all this preventative work that can be done at schools and institutes. Betting that the school manager is an educational tool, a healthy, educational tool, that equips our children with all the resources that allow us to build this already structure of very small, providing tools and documents to the communication channel, as now to the web Family and School. A tool where people and families, when they have doubts, can go straight. And from here, get not just information, but educational resources to how to work all this at home and for the children, to, more importantly, for, for, and with different bets that make us this work of prevention much more plural. Because it's important, it's important that in order to attack from the ground up, apart from everything they talked about, how to act when there's this pathology, which is a disease..., it's how we avoid getting to this high percentage of incidence on our young woman. Because we talk about two aspects; they reminded us before it was the third chronically-incidence disease, but the other day I also remembered my companion Rut Ribas who, as a young man, suicide is the first death rate. Therefore, it makes us reflect that, beyond the pathological maladies well understood, there are many who have a psychological substrate; therefore, perhaps we also need to change a little the look at how we face all these problems. Also add, therefore, all these tools that cross-sectionally are used from this work. The Implica't program, which works for positive parenting, was launched from Salut. At this moment, joint presentations are being organized, with nine food guides, small changes to eat better, at the territorial level, and from here, obsessed because prevention is the best social policy, because it reaches the schools, because it reaches the health centers, because it reaches all social centers, accompanied also by videos that are easy to access, that we also communicate with each other in that way in which adolescence is communicated, that therefore the message arrives in a more direct way. Therefore, I think that all the interventions that have taken place until this moment are based on this constructive intention to analyze this situation that we have so much in mind and that I think we are looking at care for this divender, on March 8, that it is not only attacking a pathology, but it is attacking a way of thinking, it is a way of attacking a way of observing life and women, and that yes, Mr Rodriguez, it is at the hands of all, men and women, that this is different. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.137.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mrs Montserrat Macià's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.138.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, counselors, deputies, deputies, public who accompany us from the guest gallery. From the Junta Group for Catalonia, we believe that today we are taking a step further, an important step, in the protection of childhood and above all of adolescence; we are taking a step further in the way of putting minors in the center of public policies, because it is presented to the validation of this chamber this decree which is the response to a situation of social urgency, to the vulnerability of our infants and adolescents, before unhealthy contents of social and internet networks. It is a matter of confronting the struggle against the disruptions of food conduct, some disruptions, bulimia and anorexia, that the statistics and data that have already been donated, and that I will no longer repeat in excess, determine the urgency; some disruptions that lead to a malalty that, as you know, can become absolutely cruel to our children and, as Mrs Escarp reminded us, especially to our daughters, because we know that, for every new child or girl, we find a child with a disorder of food conduct. Certainly, it can be absolutely dramatic and destructive for whom the disease suffers, but also for the family. And, therefore, it is essential to act urgently and with this other sense of responsibility. Let's remember that the mortality rate of eating disorders is around 5_per_cent. Therefore, would we leave our adolescents in a vulnerable situation before the harmful contents of the network when we have the legal tool that allows us to act with the speed and urgency that the situation demands and asks us? No, no, We have the duty and obligation to act with the highest speed and strength. We cannot overlook the physical and psychological degradation of our adolescents to which they invite and induce some of the web pages. But, all in all, it means that, because adolescence is the age range in which this disease most affects, we remember that it is not excluded and that it also affects the adult population. This decree, dated 2/2019, has already been approved for the Generality the proposed month of generation; amends the Law 22/2010, of 20 July, of the Code of Consumers of Catalonia, with the objective precisely of being able to have a legal adjunct and sufficient to allow the Government to act against the diffusion of these contents that promote the apologia of food disorders. Precisely, the apologia of anorexy and nerve bulimia in the network has been one of the most recent risk factors in recent years. I have been told by the previous Members and Members, but I want to sub-rate. Enter and find the pages linked to « pro Ana i « pro Mia ». Scary; distressing, many of them. Inciting severe food restriction, purging, self-indulgence, consumption of diüretics and laxatives; inciting self-injury, social isolation, keeping the disorder in secret. Enter it and read it, or listen to the videos, and they will take advantage of the urgency, the vital need to be able to have a legislative impact on this matter to protect our children. Or, Congressman Soler quoted it, didn't he? , the use of a tape almost as if it were a silicon. They also enter the blocs of the Association against Anorexia and Bulimia, and see how much patience, like that of Sofia, when you say: "Mommy, I want to die. How much suffering! "Things will make me feel good when my body is perfect; I will not be more alone, nor sad," the Navy thought, "when I was ill. And he says to us: "A food disorder and confounds you as real to what is not; a great confusion that increases until you collapse. That is why, in order to protect our children and our adolescents, but also the adults who are likely to be sick, that is why, I say, this decree has advanced to modify the Code of consumption, to be able to act effectively when the network is converted into a monster that invites to be sick for a style of life based on the cult of the body, the tyranny of the image and a patriarchal culture. It has been said, but it is important to underline that this compliment compliments the compromise signed in the Dialeg Table for the Prevention of Food Distortions to fight effectively against this problem and to urgently establish protective and preventive measures before these situations. The dialog table acts on those social and consumer factors that impact the proliferation of these diseases. The dialog table wants to work precisely, as the counselor explains, to look for the necessary measures to minimize every day the effects of food pipeline disruptions. And precisely one of the main conclusions to which the dialog table came was the need to legislate with the aim of protecting children and adolescents in particular from highly harmful substances for people in the construction phase of their image and identity, and therefore especially very vulnerable. And he asked the Department of Health that you modify the Law of Public Health and that the Catalan Consumer Agency retouched the Code of Consumption so that it can be proactive in the protection of children and adolescents. And this decree wants to fulfill this commitment, precisely, by marking preventive and corrective actions on the content of the network in relation to food disruptions. I will not repeat the data that have already been donated, but I do mean that the study commissioned for the Dialeg Table for the Prevention of Food Disorders on the impact of social networks and the Internet, this study, revealed that 59.2 said it before the counselor, of the ills access through the internet to unhealthy contents and that a 40.8_per_cent does it directly to contents about the disorder and tips on diets. In view of this situation, our parliamentary group welcomes this decree to the extent that they understand that it is necessary and urgent to act to prevent it and protect a collection of vulnerable people; a decree which, with a fundamental impact on consumer skills, will allow, with a preamble, seven articles and two final dispositions, to protect our children and adolescents from accessing web pages, including blogs with harmful contents for their health and for their physical, cognitive and psychological development; it will also provide special protection for people who are likely to suffer from food disorders. The urgency, the gravity of your situation, the patience and the violation before the increase of the contents that motivate the disorders of the conduct require to regulate it from the point of view of consumption, and the urgency recommends not delay its regulation. For this reason, we will validate this decree and continue to age to act transversely against the apologia of food disorders and, of course, to prevent all the rapes that we women experience. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.139.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, let's proceed to the vote. According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules of Procedure, they know that it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. Let us therefore proceed to the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] One moment – one moment. The vote begins. The Decree 2/2019, of 22 of generation, amending the Law 22/2010, of 20 July, of the Code of consumption of Catalonia, in order to incorporate measures against the disruptions of food conduct, has been validated unanimously; it is said, 127 votes in favour, against and against. As the decree, therefore, has been validated, and in accordance with Article 158.4 of the Rules, I have to ask whether any group of the chamber wants to process this decree as the bill. Is there any request in this sense? Don't you? [[Pause.]] So we give it for validation. And since there is no petition, this decree will not be dealt with as it is. [[Decree Ill 3/2019, of the 22nd generation, on the increase in remuneration for the year 2019 and the partial recovery of the import of the extraordinary payment of the year 2013 for the public sector staff of the Generalitat de Catalunya]] [[203-00011/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree 3/2019, of the 22nd generation, on the increase in remuneration for the year 2019 and the partial recovery of the import of the extraordinary payment of the year 2013 for the staff of the public sector of the Government of Catalonia. In accordance with Article 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Digital Policy and Public Administration Adviser will first intervene to explain the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. Therefore, the word has the counselor, Mr. Jordi Puignero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.140.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Counsel, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies, I appear today to ask for the vote in favour of the validation of Decree Law 3/2019, of 22 gener, on the increase in remuneration for the year 2019, and the partial recovery of the import of the extraordinary payment of the year 2013 for the staff of the public sector of the Generalitat de Catalunya. It is a decree approved by the Government, at the session of the past 22nd generation, and which derives from the agreements reached with the majority unions at the General Negotiation Bureau of the Public Employee of the Government of Catalonia, on the 11th of December 2018 and 8th of the genera d'encany. In addition, last week, the government ratified the agreement to return the total payments. As you know, all decrees require you to justify your urgency and necessity. Given the circumstances, I think it's about deepening it. Despite the obec's funding to which the Spanish Government supports us, and the unwillingness to make the State General Presumables Law's 2018 spending rule more flexible, so that public workers can recover their foreign payments, we can state that the Government is beginning to demonstrate, in fact, that it will pay them. I insist, despite the few facilitations and impediments that the Spanish Government has placed on us – certainly, which is said to be progressive – a socialist government that continues to apply to Catalonia the same presuppositional control receipts as the People's Party Government. This decree consists of two articles: the first, relating to the increase in remuneration. It has its origin in the Royal Decree Illi 24/2018, of 21 December, which enables with basic character, for all administrations, an increment of 2.25_per_cent, respect of 2018. In addition, another increase in remuneration, with effects of 1 July, is enabled as a compliment to the objective of the gross domestic product. Finally, the royal decree also allows for an additional 0.25_per_cent increase in the wage mass, for the implementation of plans or projects of improvement of productivity, or efficiency, the revision of specific complements between work places with comparable functions, the approval of destination complements or the contribution to pension plans, among other measures. The second article sets out the recovery of the first tranche of the extraordinary 2013 payment. The public sector staff will therefore perceive the 10_percent of the import in a subscription, on the March month's payroll. In parallel, we are already working on the mechanisms to make the payment of the remaining 30_per_cent during this year, as we committed ourselves in the agreement signed with the unions. Today we have shown that we are a governing government, and that it fulfills its commitments. In fact, my first announcement, as a Digital Policy and Public Administration Advisor, was not about digital policies, but it was, precisely, to announce the willingness to give compliments to the commitments made in this matter. I think this is the time and the place to show our recognition, as well as our thanks to the public workers, with facts and not just with words. Not only the Government's favour, but also that of this Parliament and that of the whole country. This legislature we have often talked about the recovery of the rights of public workers. It's fixed that I'm talking about recuperation of rights and not just recuperation of foreign payments. 155's friends club won't like it, huh? , which I will now tell you, but the public workers, the honest country, we lost rights and power to acquire not only for the economic crisis, but also – and especially – for the abuse, in a broad sense, which is suffering Catalonia for the fact of remaining part of the Spanish State. Our own economic, social, and democratic, today is the Spanish word. If Catalonia did not have a deficit of more than €16,000_million per year, the situation would have been different according to the Catalan fiscal balance update of the Generality's Department of Economy. But well, how do I know they don't like these data, so I'll give them data from the Ministry of the Interior, too, huh? The data of the Ministry of the Interior are, in concrete terms, EUR 9,892 million. Source of the Ministry of Heritage. Therefore, what is clear is that, with the resources we generate like the country, we could even improve the current situation, for which it does the financing of public services, including the remuneration conditions of its workers. As the study of the General Council of Economists says, only Catalonia disposed of the quota, eh? , like the Basque quota, Catalonia would have to be underfunded in a 5_percent of GDP, to be overfunded with that same percentage. This is a reality that you cannot deny. But no, in change, Catalonia, an economic engine of the State, has to be painted for whether or not it can pay for its functions; it has to be painted for whether or not it can pay for its firefighters; it has to be painted, for whether or not it can pay for its meths. Then, are they asking why I'm an independentist? Why are we independent? What I ask myself is: "How is it that you are not? Despite the efforts of many of the present to torpedo government action, despite its criticism, its management, the Government of the Government of Catalonia is fulfilling its promises and obligations. And I can assure you one thing: your soroll won't be able to make us turn around in our labor, social and republican policies. I do not know if they are aware of this, but we have already reached a number of agreements with trade union organisations, including two agreements on the selection of interested personnel. Also the agreement that makes it possible to perceive the cent_per_cent of wages, in case of temporary incapacity; or the wage increase for 2018 and 2019, with the maximum that allows the regulations in force. Unlike some of us, talking, negotiating and reaching agreements, it's not for us. We are the ones in the negotiating tables; others are more to rise from the tables. And then there are some others, who just want to see us safe, or they just want to see us safe on the benches of the defendants. Finally, allow me also to take advantage of the good work done on the side of the Public Employees Negotiation Table, to the unions. It's a way we'll keep exploring, because it's proven to be a good fruit. Despite all the interbanks and the difficulties, we have managed to reach an agreement on how and in what terms to make the foreign payments pending. I would like to thank, in this sense, the involvement of my Public Service team, the secretary Annabel Marcos – here today in the Chamber –, also the director of Public Service, Mrs. Pilar Sorribas, in the front. Thank you for making this agreement possible. Thank you too – it is not here – to the Vice President and Economic Advisor, for his personal commitment to seek and find the mechanisms so that we can make these payments today. I have to say, and I can say it here, the vice president has been the best ally of the advisor who talks to you, because today the General Staff are starting to recover their foreign payments. With this subscription to the March name, we will make the first of the sundial agreements. We will pay 10_percent of the 2013 pay, thus starting the return path of 2013 and 2014 payments, repeatedly demanded for the unions. All in all, our intention is to continue working for the continuous improvement of the rights of the workers and workers of the Generality of Catalonia. We will continue to do so until now, without sound, without overperformance, without impossible promises, with a lot of dialogue, with a lot of empathy and with a lot of responsibility. In this sense, I think they're endorsing our agreements so far. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.141.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now, it's the turn of parliamentary groups to fix their position. First of all, he has the word on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.142.0	Thank you, President. Allow me to begin my speech today by thanking Mr Puigneró for having made a gap in his agenda to come today to talk about the public service. We already know that this doesn't interest you very much, so we want to thank you for being here, especially in the last few days, because with so much travel you've made, we thought you were going to come here, to share souvenirs, I don't know, with something..., a Dubai magnet, when you've gone there to talk about the digital republic you want to make. That, by the way, does not explain it to us in the Committee on Digital Policy. Or a dwarf... I don't know what they're called, the dwarfs from Dublin, when they've gone to meet Sinn Féin, to Ireland. Or a t-shirt of these, so cool, from ‘My advisor has been skiing in the Faroe Islands and brought me this t-shirt. [[Greetings.]] Well, anyway, thanks for being here today. By the way, what a digital revolutionary it is that you, who have to go as we did forty or fifty years ago, to gather yourself personally. Do you not know what Skipe is, or other means of communication in this regard? Because, let's see, these meetings don't bring anything, to the citizens of Catalonia; at least, they don't cost us public money. And look, I'm telling you all this because, the truth is that you've had a few months in which you haven't appeared for the committee, you haven't come to appear, you've blocked – the groups that support your government – the appearances. And today, we are talking about public service, but we say what we always say and it is shown with this background that I have told you, that you do not pay attention to the public service. We already said: you were the process computer, they made this advice tailored, so that you can prepare the blow in digital version. May the Socialist Party's gentlemen point this out. And he's done absolutely nothing to the public service all this time. They created a tailor-made councillor, and what we have not yet been able to decipher from the plan is: why is the public service in that councillor? But, well, let's focus on the decree we were talking about today, after this preview. This decree confirms your ridiculousness. And his speech confirms it even more. You were complaining, that if the Budget Stability Act, that if the evil government of Spain; you even said that you could not return the pay to the workers because the rest of the groups did not support their budgets – those budgets that you have neither presented – and, in the end, when you were already against the ropes, you did find solutions. Look, the vice president shows up here... you could have spoken before, right? I could have spoken when..., because for years now you have owed these salaries to the public workers. In short, for us, this agreement is your surrender to the evidence; you, with this agreement, return the 10_per_cent of the pay, of the 2013 pay, but we read it in another way: missing to return the 90_per_cent of the pay of the year 2013, and the full pay of 2014. And with your background, we have already told you that until the last euro is on the account of the last public worker in Catalonia, we will be vigilant. As watchers, we continue, in the face of the rest of the needs, to face the situation of the public service in Catalonia. We have already commented on it repeatedly: the high rate of internment, the high rate of temporaryity, or the calls for places that you announce and never arrive. Why? What is actually increasing is the number of plugs, the number of chiringuitos, while the percentage of staff is falling. I don't know how you're going to explain to all those people, who are waiting for a square to be called, that you come here, make great announcements, and you don't end up calling them. On 13 December, a motion was adopted unanimously by all the groups in this Parliament, where basic aspects were claimed – it was a motion for basic public service – and Citizens incorporated two amendments. On the one hand, those selective processes, those opposition processes that had been announced, but not called, for the years 15, 16 and 17, were immediately called. And that, in three months, you present a timetable in which new places are planned to reduce this high rate of internment. We remind you of the data, don't we? : the indicators of the European Union speak of an 8_per_cent, and here we are, according to their own data, in figures greater than 36_per_cent. As I say to you, that motion was passed on 13 December, and to date... do you know what has been done, so much that you work for the public service? : nothing, absolutely nothing in this sense. We have the impression that you, in the face of the strikes, went to work, but went to work to make announcements to, at that time, well, please the people who were on strike, but to date you have done absolutely nothing. And one merit I do have to acknowledge: you have been able to put the entire public service against you; because all sectors of public service have gone out to the streets to claim what we are telling you now. But while we observe this precariousness in the civil service, we also note with amazement that you, in those budgets that you do not present, in those budgets that you do not process, when you present the accounts to the rest of the groups do raise the salary, you do raise the salary. And I'm sure you'll tell me that it's the cumulative of the annual 2_per_cent, because if you compare it to 2016, for example, look, the salary of the President of the Generalitat, which is about fifty_ thousand_euros, has risen by ten_ thousand_euros in all this time; for the councilors, six_ thousand_euros – the councilors charge more than 115,000_euros – and five_ thousand for the directors-general. And the worst of this is his speech of oppression, we've seen it several times; often oppressed, right? : the high offices of the Generalitat charge more than the President of the Government, and many – many – of these high offices of the Generalitat charge more than many officials who have studied to remove their position of opposition. And this for me would be evidence of what the process is: while some throw balls elsewhere, put the blame elsewhere, maintain or even improve their modus vivendi. Think again, because I believe that your management of the public service is absolutely harmful. And another issue that we have discussed today in the questions that have been asked to the government: while all this is happening, you continue to refine your pressure measures to officials, using the public media to summon ideological stops or co-sponsoring your symbolic jobs, such as separatist altars. Even this week we have seen how the ANC wants to enter the campaign of trade union elections as well. And first of all, then, we have a government of Spain that not only looks elsewhere, but copies them, that gets infected with you, because we have also seen how from ministries emails with political guidelines are sent to Congress officials. And here, as I am addressing the Government of Spain, I would take advantage of it and make one more point. We have already warned, that the next hit will be in digital version. You will have to explain to us what happened to the data from the Catalans, but there are quite a few alarms, quite a few alerts. You go to Dubai to explain what the digital nation is; you say you want to build the digital republic; you sign agreements with other territories, such as the one you signed on the Faroe Islands and announced – don't look at me like that, because you put it on your social networks – in this sense; you announce all of this, and the Government of Spain, which has the powers in cybersecurity, has neither required nor done anything at all. We will not fail to warn you, because among other things I think we already know each other well. Finally, the vote on the decree will be favorable, but this I say to you without acridity – it is not here; perhaps I will address the Vice President, since the President is not here –: I think they should divide the council. This adviser is not prepared to take on the challenges facing the public service in recent years. Look, he's happy talking about Mobile, taking pictures with drones, with fiber optic cables... They divide the consultancy, because the public service doesn't deserve to be ignored and ignored, as it is constantly. I thank you for your attention. The vote, as we have said, on the decree will be favourable. And you, Mr. Counsellor, if we're lucky, we'll see each other in the committee. We're going to register a request for your appearance to explain to us what you've done on the journeys and what procedural charges you were doing to T-Systems. Let's see if you have the will and get closer and answer us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.143.0	On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mr Pol Gibert has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.144.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, advisors, vice president, deputies and representatives of the unions, who are not here today, many of them, because they are with union elections to the central services, with which we also apologize, but they are following this appearance for digital media. And I wanted to address them in the first place, because I think we're also here today thanks to them, to their struggle, and also to their patience; patience to see how the payments are recovered, one part, a 10-per-cent of 2013, after many years of struggle and keeping public services on condition for very precarious years, right? They have accompanied us many times from the rostrum to insist that we recover their rights, and until now we have not been able to do so, with which today is also an important day for many of them. Entering the subject, today the Government presents a decree to return the 10_per_cent of the 2013 pay, the 10_per_cent, and an increase in remuneration that sets aside the socialist government of the State and that allows, as the Councillor has said, enable the autonomous communities to push it up to the maximum of the possible topall. We have already announced our vote in favour of this decree; it could not be otherwise. But we also tell the councilman that we regret his absolute failure to secure these favourable votes. You didn't call anyone, you didn't talk to anyone, you came here and committed yourself to the good will of parliamentary groups. And, as you know, and you know, that there are unions behind and that, therefore, we will vote for it for the good of all, so, it has remained with this type of decision, but we recommend that you do before a proper management to ensure this type of management. Because President Torra said earlier at the control session, and you said it now, too, that they are people of dialog, of large majority... Therefore, we also want this to be accompanied by facts. As I said, the first measure that is presented today is the return of one part of the outstanding payments, and up late, very late; everyone knows it, and therefore I should not have to maintain much more. In fact, it was supposed to be 2018, and it wasn't. The boy government has been able to carry this decree today after being at the door of a vacancy in public office. In fact, the day before the vacancy in public office came to this agreement. And the second part is the increase in the amount of money, which, as I'm sure, qualifies after a decree of the Government of the State that it does bet clearly on the workers and workers of the public office. So, then, the role of the Catalan government has been to follow in one case, and in the other, let's say, to see 'finally obliged to approve these better, even though it is against its will. A government that didn't cost people to retail payments three years in a row in the toughest moments of the crisis, but in change it's hard to recover social rights from public workers again. And not only of the payments – the counselor also said – we also talk about much broader social rights: from social foundations to contributions to pension plans, reduction of the day and I am or the maturity of the public offer of employment. And in these themes I want to say, counselor: how many meetings have been held after two months with public workers for these themes? Because they tell us that very few things, with which they also feel that this issue is taken up. And while the rest of the state saw how the lost rights came to be recovered; this we have seen in many autonomous communities. Therefore, here we see a comparative weight: while other places in the State in similar conditions, with similar rules of the game, can recover rights, here we were not doing it. Always in front of the government wall, it is said as the councillor is said; in this case councillor Puignero, but there were not before others who also occupied this portfolio. And from these failings of these past years see our group's current mistrust of the promises that have been made. For a band we want to trust you, to see how these public workers recover their lost rights for a long time. And for another band, we're thinking how many times these people have been arrested, promising a return of payments that hasn't been made, and without going anywhere else, I'd say, 2018. To these reasons for mistrust, which were present with this councillor and also with others, now is added what we could call the "Pugneró" factor, and in this it has its own attribution, councillor. We wear less than a year with the new public office holder, but it has been more than enough to have a clear image than you care about the public office. A counselor who, as has been said here, carries the portfolio of public office with whom he pours a motxilla full of stones, like a slug that prevents him from dedicating himself to the cloud and the digital republic, we suppose that you will charge some wonderful submersibles. A counselor who, before the repeated petitions of my group to face the return of the payments, accused us of going by lighthouse, and here we are, approving that lighthouse, which you gave. A counselor who before Nadal gave us trilers to ask what he presents today in this decree that he presents today before the Parliament. It would be funny to get back the debate about who the trilero was then: did the six-month-old say that this was possible or did we defend what we approve of today? Who was the triler then, counselor? But I don't think Parliament deserves to debate this level of trilerism. You, Counselor, also said that the deficit targets and the spending rule do not allow them to do what we are doing today. That's why it's enough graces so its own decree, which says, textually, that "all the available funding data currently suggests that there are no circumstances that could jeopardize the compliment of the deficit, debt or expenditure rule. He didn't want to go back to the debate about who the trilero was, but it's obvious that you fooled unions and Parliament when you made the following statements. And the decree approved today is the most obvious proof of this deception, it's all self-explanatory to his management; and we, of course, celebrate that this is the case. And with this smokescreen of yours, with a little originality attack, he wanted to blame Madrid. This is a mantra we've seen many times, with which nothing is innovation either. But in this case it was found before a minister that in this case she is very active in public office, a minister who has approved the largest public offer in the last two years and who has put on the table measures to reduce the timing and stabilize the seedlings or who has allowed the public workers to increase the amount, as we will today: a minister who has dialogued with the different communities and has set aside a sectoral conference of the Public Administration that made new years that is not reunited, and who has reached six agreements with trade union representatives on very different issues, from TIAs to paternal permissions; an example of what can be done with dialogue and with will to pull forward. But you, counselor, preferred to blame the government that did all that I told you before I didn't let back the foreign payments that we see today that I could pay. But there's more. Before Nadal, Congresswoman Romero, from this same Faristol, asked him an inquiry. And at a time of debate, I suppose before the lack of arguments, you accused our group of, literally, "feeling very comfortable with the People's Party's premise. You won't tell me that, from a perspective, you have a lot of grace, that statement. And he went on to say, "I don't think you're making any effort to approve a new premise," you said. And he said again that our assumption to the government of the state was a ‘lighthouse'. But there's still more. You add: "We are not happy with the popular party's premise and, therefore, we will work because Catalonia and its government have a better deal on the part of the PSOE government. God-n'hi-do, counselor– God-n'hi-do. It didn't make any sense. All folded in, let's make a summary of where we are, it wasn't that between what you thought and what happened was lost at some point. The state government didn't just make an effort, but presented the premise – which they haven't done here, by any chance. Moreover, the assumption was good for Catalonia, with very important transfers and investments. And you, who did not want the PP's premise, voted with them against more resources for Catalonia and its government. You, who accused the state government of not allowing payments to be returned, find yourself in this Parliament seeking approval of a decree that says you can pay for it. I hope that it is still very good in the field of the new technologies and the digital republic, because as in future it will not make a living, you, counselor. But do you know the best of everything? That, as I said before, after deceptions, lack of respect for functioning and opposition, we will today give support to this decree, because unlike you, we do place at the centre of our political action the best of the living conditions of the people of this country. And this decree, even at the risk of failing to do so, supposes a better one for the citizens of our country. Even though you haven't bothered to find the supports, our group will be responsible, for the sake of the public workers who have suffered from their policies. Now, we'll let him know we'll be very careful in this Parliament. We will not allow them to play again with the funds from which our public services stand. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.145.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.146.0	Well, I thought we'd come here and have a debate about public office, about the workers and the workers, and I'll try not to make a trip, I don't know if for other countries, just talk about the rights of the workers and the public workers, talk about the public office, talk about the salary increase and, in any case, talk about the return of double pay for the workers, right? Yes, it's true that the counselor whenever we talk about this topic raises, I would say, interesting debates, suggestions and also punishing, and I think it's also worth it to get in there, right? Because he explains – and I will not be the one who denies it – that there is, in this case, insufficient funding for the Government of Catalonia from the State, and we share this and agree; in fact many times we have also made proposals in this sense, so as to improve it. But, I insist, because we have also had this debate several times, I think that a part of the reality is denied, I want to deny a part of the reality, because I think that you also have to see, this difficulty..., or in any case, if you have lost the rights of workers in Catalonia, it is also because of certain political options, which are yours, which in its moment was that of Mr.Artur Mas, which was that of the PDECAT and which in any case was at that time that of Convergence. I say this because certain options were taken in fiscal policy, such as removing the inheritance tax, or it was endorsed, for example, a policy, in this case, of austerity and the Law of Presuppositional Enabling. You were addicts, or are, or have been addicted to presuppositional austerity. And I'll remind you of some statements. For example, Mr.Mas said the year 2012: "Adoption to Rajoy's retails is a deadline. Another statement: "Artur Mas urges Rajoy to abide by the details proposed for the International Monetary Fund. And, therefore, in the end – I don't deny it – is there a financing problem in Catalonia? Yes, but you also took a certain political option, which was to apply some austerity policies, and more tax cuts especially to higher returns. And, look, you know what's going on, too? That in the end – and we have also had these days the debate of assumptions – the debate endures everything, but, look, there are other autonomous communities that have financing problems and have unjust financing on the part of the State, as can be Country Validity or even in this case Balearics, and in the end, for example, we find that the assumptions of 2017, which you said were the most social assumptions of history, were the assumptions with social expense per inhabitant lower than all the Spanish State, to go beyond communities that have an underfunding still greater than Catalonia, such as the Valencia Country or even the Balearic Islands. Therefore, I believe that you also had a certain political option and took a certain political option, which was to bet on austerity policies and, in this case, also on the details, right? And we're also getting into an element that's very important to us, which is the return of double pay for you, in this case of 2013. I also want to remind you of the debate that we have held, in this case, at the committee, on the 4th of December, at the door, in that case, of a general vacancy in public office, and some of the statements that you made, huh? "We want to pay, but don't let us. And we said to him: "Listen, I don't deny you the difficulties to pay, but there are possibilities to make the return of the double pay of the employees. And to the parties in return. It was obvious that we were right and that you were wrong. I think they were finally making a political choice that was still an apology. And I'm glad you've re-established your relationship, in this case, with the vice president of the economy, but I'm saying that..., right? That's to say, as my avia says, excuse no request, manifest guilt. It was clear that they did not agree on what priority should be given, if in this case the vacancy or in this case also the return of the double pay of the employees, for the debates between you and the government, right? And this agreement, in the end, is not the result of a political will, it is the result of a social mobilization, and I think it is worth highlighting, it is the result of a social mobilization of the conjunction of the public workers, the conjunction of the representatives and the representatives of the public workers, which they carried, in this case, right? Between the span and the wall to a vacancy in public office. In addition, you had, I would say, some horrible weeks, there was a late heat, with a lot of mobilizations – metges, bombers, metgesesses, moves – and, therefore, you found yourself between the span and the wall and you had to arrive at an agreement, which I think... seems to me to be a reasonable agreement, which went much further than you had originally put up from the table basically because you had a grogic government that had to give response to the assembly of Catalan society and especially to the workers and public workers, right? But I also want to ask him some questions. I know this isn't an inquiry, but we have a few things to worry about. Why in the same way that we celebrate that we have reached an agreement, and we put it in value, with the representatives of the public workers, and that, therefore, there is a wage increase, as well, huh? There was, in this case, the year 2018, and we also gave support – and I already told him that today we will also give support to the validation, to the validation of the decree, because it supposes to recover rights – but to us too we are concerned, and we have said it, and we have also said it in this case to the Councillor of Economy, about the viability or not and his return commitment in this case of the totality of the agreement you signed. I'm saying why today we don't validate the full return of double pay, no, we only validate 10_per_cent, huh? So... And, well, we'll be very fond of each other, as other groups have said, but we also get the impression that there may be difficulties, there may be difficulties at the end of the year, because it's also moved this way in a few moments, huh? , that there may be tensions in this case presuppositions in September, October or November if they do not comply with certain conditions that depend particularly on the Government of the State and that in any case they have to see, right? With the modification of the Presuppositional Enabling Law; that you already know that we were against the Presuppositional Enabling Law, and obviously we are in favour of its modification, but not, that they do not only depend on us, but on a majority of the Congress, most of which you have, by and large, called for advanced elections, right? Therefore, we also have doubts that this can be completed; it is not the first time that it would happen. Also, well, we'd love for you to give us guarantees of that, which could be that, huh? , that you can return the 40_per_cent that you agreed to..., well, the remaining 30, obviously, the remaining 30 after this 10_per_cent. We'd love to, too... we understand that the first quarter... I think you said that, didn't you? , which will go with March's name. They told us there were some technical problems because we could afford this month of fever. We understand that there will be no technical problem because you can pay in this case on the March name and, therefore, the workers can recover this first 10_per_cent that in this case you raised them, right? And we are also concerned – and we have also told the Vice-President repeatedly – about the expenses in this case that the Generality will have to make in resources, right? In this case, wages are important, they are not minor. We are talking about the 385_million euros that means the salary increase of the generality's public workers and workers, plus the 220 that in this case also means the double pay of you will work. I also say that because you still count – and we have also told the Vice President in this case – with tickets from the State that we think that without some general assumptions of the State they will not come, that it is these 350_million euros that in this case, no? , asked Mr. Pere Aragonès to incorporate in the assumptions of the State. And, therefore, we also ask for transparency and honesty in this, namely that we will not find the month of September and the month of October difficult again, right? , to face this remaining 30_per_cent. And then we'll also replace it with this to get back a dialog, and I'd say an understanding, with the public service workers in Catalonia and especially with their representatives. You know... – we have also raised it; we have been told that this is complex because of the economic situation in the country – but that there are other rights that have been detailed, in this case, right? , of workers and public workers with the details of the government but, as I mentioned earlier, for example, some measures which have to do with family reconciliation or which have to do with the fears of work losses. And, therefore, we understand that here, well, there is a margin to be able to take the table, to be able to speak to the Civil Service Bureau whether this is possible to recover it or not. But in any case, we do prefer that this be a starting point because it is recovered in this case the understanding that well, that these will take some time, so you want to, or not, recognize it, I think it's broken, that it's been damaged, right? , in the dialog with public workers and workers. In summary: we will obviously give support to the decree; we believe that, obviously, as much as it refers to the increase in the number of public workers and workers, as the first step in the recovery of the 2013 pay is on the right track. We would simply like you to have the real and effective guarantee that this, therefore, will not remain here but that it will recover the total following the schedule that was agreed, and in this case there would still be a 30_per_cent, on behalf of the Administration of the Generality, to return this year 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.147.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the return of Mr Vidal Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.148.0	To advance that we will vote in favour of the validation of the present decree to suppose the measure a better of the situation of the workers and workers of the public sector, but also to advance that we will make an absolutely critical intervention in relation to how the government treats the workers and workers of the public sector for which it does so much to their retributive conditions, but also to the combination of their working conditions, and for the lack of sufficient endowment of workers and workers to good part of the public services, that do not only affect these workers and workers, the ones who work, but also the combination of the public services. For what it does to the essential content of this decree that we are going to validate, beyond the scope as to inclusiveness, to whom it affects or to whom it does not affect, the essentiality goes through pay increments and topalls. And we want to highlight what effectively regulates, which are topalls, and therefore limit the rights of workers and workers. What this government does in the present decree is to transfer to the Catalan reality two predeterminate realities in the state reality: for a band, the agreement to which the three major unions of the state public sector and the government of the People's Party arrived on March 9, 2018, and, in the second place, the move, more or less – then we will make reference – of the Royal Decree of July 24, 2018 of the government of the PSOE; certainly, also, with the incorporation of the agreements to which they arrive, of the MEPAGC, in relation to the meeting of the 15th generation of the present year. But essentially what they're doing is copying everything that's insufficient from the sight of this group. There is something, obviously, that could be understood as positive, but there is one that really does not provide the possibility for workers to see their pay increase. If we go to the exact content of paragraph 3 in relation to its article 1, tell us or state that the wage mass of the workers cannot experience any increments higher than the fixed increments, and fix our increments. So, here what we actually have is a topall, a topall that you determine, for a band, for the 2.25 that increases, and can be with the effects of the present year's genera; a 2.25 that can be increased by a 0.25 or a 0.05, depending on the increase in GDP, but also with a third possibility, which is a potential increment of 0.25, that will be donated either in collective agreements or in collective bargaining. And to respect we want to explain a question that no one has made reference, that the royal decree to which they are referring in the present validation, the state, allows another possibility, which is, for those administrations that may have – or in the public sector – a budgetary surplus, that the negotiation and the increment can reach up to 0.3_per_cent. Therefore, we would even be speaking that the decree that we are validating today is inferior, as to the possibility of increasing the remuneration, of that which establishes the regulations of the State. That's right, beyond the IPC of 2018, for the conjunction of workers and workers in the public sector that determining is, as to the cost of living, housing, sub-administrations and food. And, therefore, to boost the increments – the guaranteed 2.25, but even all the potentials of 2.5 or 2.75 – will not really assume that they maintain the cost of living but that they do not guarantee the approval that we will make of this decree or of the validation that we will make of this decree. We, with this idea of insisting that we have a real limitation, want to convey another idea, that it is very good that we are talking about negotiation, that it is very good that we are talking about dialogue, but what we have, in a joint administration action, in fact of the administrations, is an absolute top that the representatives of the workers and the workers can improve their salaries over the limits that are already established by law. As for the second article, which refers to the payment of 10_percent of the 2013 extra pay, I said the rules: « They stopped perceiving. It's a good euphemism, they've stopped noticing it. They did not fail to notice, they went through a detail for which they did not charge the 2013 pay, which would be more adient. But what it means, of course, is that we are not doing what we approve of in this Parliament. We have approved until three or four times the payment of the 2013 extra pay for 2018 and until all the payment of the extra pay for 2019. The reality that we have now is only 10_per_cent, and we will see with respect to the other 30_per_cent that happens or doesn't happen, because it seemed that the agreements to which they came with the unions, or with a part of the unions, representing the Catalan public sector, and the fruits even of the call for travel, were conditioned on other elements. And we gave it to the council: "We need certain; the workers and the workers of the public sector cannot be uncertain about the recovery of their 2013 extra pay and the combination of their salaries. And lastly, a much more general issue. Continue [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] maintaining policies of retributive containment...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.149.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.150.0	... and plan to continue – I finish, President – by making the crisis pay at the conjunction of workers and workers in the public sector.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.151.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.152.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs... Counselor, very independent, but take over the pitjors of the government of Spain, of the government of Pedro Sánchez, which is to govern through decrees. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes; rule through decrees, Mr. Aragonès. Because you're also a lot of democrats and assume you've often completed what's coming from the Parliament of Catalonia but at the time of truth you don't do it – at the time of truth you don't. And if we're talking here today about a decree for the remuneration of public workers, it's because you haven't fulfilled your obligations. And I won't remember any of them today, yes. For example, that of presenting assumptions, counselor; for example, that of presenting assumptions. Do you remember what you said happened – or even worse, I don't remember what day – we had a debate about the presentation of assumptions to Parliament? So there was a vote as well, and the Parliament approved asking the Government that at the first meeting of the Executive Council approve the premises and the doors to the Parliament, because what you did, to present them before the press on Monday, is not needed. You, yesterday, met with the Executive Board, did not approve the assumptions. So they don't care what's in this Parliament either. But today they bring us this decree, which, before we said so, was the fruit of the government's inaction. I think it's also quite the fruit of the government's inaction. One, in relation to the assumptions, yes. Another, too, relates to the incompliments of the same government's or previous government's agreements, so much so, because the previous government had an agreement with the public workers that it was beginning to return the 2013 pay during the year 2018. And you, the year 2018, say: "No, it's that we can't – we can't, we can't –, we'll already pay them, even they all proposed to make them back – that's to pay in a set term, eight years, a wild thing. And you bring us here today a decree to, among other things, justify that the year 2019 can pay..., you can return this part of the 2013 extra pay – and then I will return to it briefly. And in the preamble tell us, listen'm, in October 2018 the accounts of the Generalitat presented a surplus of 429_million euros. Ah, and they can't return the 10_per_cent of the 2013 pay? And that's why they went to the one that went to the one that went to the other. Now, now you say, "No, now we're returning this extra pay. Listen to me, I think there's a little shame in coming here to say that we're dealing with an economic offence and that you're making the effort. What is he talking about, the most well-paid and most well-travelled advisor in all of Spain? What are you talking about? Precisely, you're supporting yourself... also through this decree, because that's already being covered by the public workers and the government as well. Since 2017, you've pushed up a 5_per_cent. Certainly, public workers, 4.95_per_cent, because you are rounding up. Clearly, with a salary of 115,000 euros, 115,234.92 cents they have, you no longer see them from this 0.05. Listen to me..., and they say to us: "And return to the outside. Obviously. And despite you, our group will validate this decree, for the workers, not for you. Do they also have the little shame of bringing us here the recovery of the external payments of the councillors and the president of the Generalitat of the year 2013? Do they have this shame? Yes, Counselor, you don't look like a stranger, read the decree that you approved. The top ranks and the addresses will also recover 10_percent of the 2013 extra pay. Spain's most well-paid advisors also want to recover the 2013 extra pay and come here to denounce the economic burden of not knowing what? Listen to me, who, if it were for you, to this decree we voted against, won't fail us. We will not do this, by responsibility – and not by you – nor by the group of workers of the Generality and by the group of citizens of Catalonia, that we do not deserve a government like what we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.153.0	Now it's the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Deputy Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.154.0	Well, thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, Workers and Workers of Parliament, we will be back as before finalizing the previous year, we will carry a pay increment decree and, in this case also, a decree which incorporates, in its second article, the recovery of the 10_per_cent of the corresponding payment in the year 2013. Before I saw some Member last night, it may be that Dutch lands came to do a football match, but I think we are wrong when we focus a debate on public service respect other aspects. And here's where we're gonna hit each other again. It seems to me that it is very important that, when we talk about public service, we focus the debate on the concrete field of public service, because, in fact, today, we all know that there are trade union elections, and that is why we cannot be accompanied or excused by the country's trade unions, who would be present in this room, as they have always been, when we have dealt with issues of public service, but we always end up talking about other issues. We already referred to it when we re-established a law of these or similar features today. We always get used to..., and, in fact, it's good, they're opposition groups, but we always get used to always looking for that element of difference, that element of divergence, that element of putting the saying to the eye instead of recognizing that, in effect, the work has been done; instead of recognizing that, in this case, this Administration, this Government, the work, is doing it. And how do you recognize it? Precisely with this law. Fixi's, it has also been commented, previously, that there were excuses of bad payer for the fact that it was not possible to face the 10_per_cent during the year 2018. In effect, there can be a front in 2019, but there could not be a front in 2018. Why? Differentiated presuppostary exercises and, therefore, compliments of differentiated deficits. What does that mean? May I, and today, approve a decree that involves the recovery of this 10_per_cent of the 2013 extra pay, which previously, during the 2018 fiscal year, we could not have carried. And this is the message he always gave, and this is the message he always transferred to the Digital Policy and Public Administration Commission, he always gave that message. Finally, in agreement with the vague committees of the 11th of December, it is armored – it is armored – a series of conditions that are the ones that we are completing in a short time. The first was that this 10_per_cent would be paid in this first quarter. The following, article 1.a.b of that agreement, states that 30_percent of the 2013 extra pay will also have to be met during the year 2019, whenever there is a presupposition law – whenever there is a presupposition law. And that's in the committee's signed agreement. Therefore, we must continue to insist on the same, we must continue to insist on the need and the importance of having a presumption for our country. And, therefore – and therefore – from the Republic Group we keep our hands extended to continue working in this sense. Moreover, in that agreement with the vagrancy committees, other questions were also incorporated, such as, for example, timing, which was one of the great demands of the return of payments unions on the 13th and 14th. 2020 is back 60_percent of the pay of 13, 2021 55_percent of the pay of 14 and 2022 is back the rest of the pay 2014, which meant 45_per_cent. Therefore, it is clear that this timetable should be completed. Another question that is of remarkable relevance: when agreements are signed, these agreements must be completed. And in order to complete this agreement it was imperative that we did not expect a law of assumptions, because, if we waited for the law of assumptions and did not use the political figure of the decree, we would not get to the compliment of this agreement with the vague committee of the 11th of December, which implicitly emphasized that the 10_per_cent payment of the extra payment of the 13th is made in the first quarter of the year 2019. And as the counselor has confirmed, this payment will be made on March's payroll. Therefore, compliment of the agreement, compliment of the government agreement, compliment of the agreement that was signed with the vagaries committees. I already understand that there are no more mechanisms than calling on certain counsel's trips or calling on a supposed disinterest of this counsel for public service questions – I already understand that. Because it turns out that the government, and like the government, governs to look for other excuses to visualize what. It's just like the question of the groceries. Look, we're going in white for a very obvious protest to a court that's a farce. We carry deep ties in protest over the violation of the civil and political rights that we are patenting in the country. And there are workers and workers of the Generality of Catalonia who carry deep ties, precisely exercising their freedom of expression and their freedom, at the same time, to express criticism of certain rights that they themselves, themselves, also see violated. And it's not us who's going to ask you that this hole isn't the port. And it's not us who's going to ask them to take away the deep loops they can have in their workspaces. Because we share its claim with the cent_per_cent. And it's just that some of them would like us to attach all the good uniforms. Some would appreciate it if there were no deep ties, no lilies, no reds. Some of them would appreciate it if we could not be in this Faristol politically defending the ideas of our political organizations. Some would like it if, instead of having a ple in this Parliament, we had a registry office. Some would be pleased if this Member who is speaking to them today were not in this lobby defending the proposal for an increase in remuneration for public workers. Because some people would like to have just one idea and live a lot of things just – just – imposing what they think. But they were wrong, because Catalonia defends democracy, because Catalonia is a country that has always been at the mercy of the struggle of civil and political rights, because Catalonia is a country that will not lower its head for much repression that comes. Because Catalonia is his people. Just as the public workers and the public workers went out on the road to defend their rights and, before the social struggle there must be a response from the Government, just as this happened, we will not fail to defend the civil and political rights of these civil workers and the public workers who repeatedly ask us not to come in, to keep firm and convinced because this is a struggle that is also theirs. And we're very clear and we're going to do it. Therefore, thanks to the unions, thanks to the government and to continue working, to continue to defend the interests of the workers and public workers of this country, because, in effect, it is of those values that make us proud to stay where we belong. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.155.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.156.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies, counselor and vice president; also to Annabel, the secretary of public administration, to some students who are here at the plenary session of Parliament. Well, today we're voting for the validation of this decree, I think it's quite an important issue to listen to some demagoguery that has occurred. We also have the first experience of electronic voting, the union elections today of the Administration of the Generality. When Congressman Gragera is always mocking digitization, I don't know if he would... he could also go to Estonia and explain how you are mocked, right? What is digitalization, the change in public administrations, the digital repte, as there are more advanced countries in the world that have councils and presidents and vice presidents, so with policies of this category, right? When you mock the Skype, who says that meetings should not be moved by the councillor, you could do with Skype, so for the same rule of three, the Mobile should not move people from the other end of the world to find themselves with investors or to find themselves with technological partners. It's just... I, since he claims and defends the Skype, therefore dear, to the reform of the Rules of Parliament supposed to defend the telematic media to invest President Puigdemont. [[Greetings.]] So, we're here today. I think it's an important law decree. Counselor Puignero, when ugly reference, isn't it? I think he didn't surprise us at his presentation, because from the first day he established the need and willingness to negotiate with the unions. When they talked about these agreements, I think there's a lot of agreements... when, I don't know, Congressman Gilbert was talking, right? ...I think it's the Puignero factor, because I think from the secretary it's come to a lot of agreement with his entire team with the unions. And, therefore, yes, we agree, there is the Puignero factor and, therefore, there are agreements with the unions, as we are carrying here today. Therefore, I think it is important to put this law into value. Nor has it been said in the different interventions, but this decree has an impact on more than 300,000 people, workers and public workers. I think this decree proves that the government is ruling, and it's not proof, and it's not digital proof, but it's proof with facts. And so, I think from day one, when Councilman Puignero committed himself to this negotiation to reaching agreement, so... I think today is another reason to vote for it and continue working for this recovery of the rights. Because what we're voting for today is political action, political action that is turning into a law decree and returning these workers' rights. The counselor also questioned us with the possibility of approving these assumptions, right? Cid's deputy referred to austerity policies and said: "I like the assumptions of expansion. We also appreciate the expanded assumptions and, therefore, I am sure that we will find all the accomplices to approve some assumptions. As a matter of fact, during the wave season, in a meeting we had a hard time finishing the different doors of the parliamentary groups with the unions, which the deputy Cid, therefore, said that for them, for the Communs, the recovery of the foreign payments would be one of the key elements in the negotiation of the assumptions. And, for that matter, I also think that... I like it, don't I? , his position, but I think we have to put in value that, it is fixed, has not been the negotiation of assumptions, because this policy has been prioritized and today we are not approving the decree law. So I think we have room to hear each other, because we're also..., and we're in favor of these expanding assumptions, and so I think we can find ourselves in many policies. On the other hand, in this decree, we cannot avoid this fiscal deficit, this fiscal deficit that drowns all Catalans and Catalans. We can discuss whether it's 16,000, if it's 13,000, if it's 9,500; but there's a lot of economic reports of different company agents planting and giving exact numbers of what this tax deficit is. And this fiscal deficit does not affect the independent citizens and those who do not: it affects us all, in policies and in the approval of the assumptions. Therefore, this cannot be overshadowed, because this is the reality, which you deny. When the deputy of the People's Party refers to the little shame, I would say that the little shame is that of yesterday, of the Thousand, declaring to the Supreme Court, the hand of lies that we had to listen to. [[Greetings.]] That's the little shame. Therefore, forward with this decree, forward with the recovery of the rights of public workers, forward with this negotiation that is taking place, forward with the establishment of the table of the negotiation, which does not make us, and, above all, not obviate that we could do much more if we did not have this deficit of 16,000_millions and that is why we always defend and defend the Catalan Republic, a free republic for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.157.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We shall now proceed to the vote. Call it a vote. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.158.0	On a point of order, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.159.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.160.0	We were convinced that people would not be insulted in the hemisphere. There has already been a very unfortunate and very insulting intervention on the part of a Juntes spokesman for Catalonia this morning, quoting indirectly – I assume that he did not have the value of doing so directly – a former Member of this House and that he has held an important institutional representation. Now also a joint spokesman for Catalonia, without loving himself, citing his last name, has also insulted an ex-parliamentary of this chamber, without the president having called his attention, as I think it is as we were, that we would try to keep the forms in this chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.161.0	I understand, Mr. Rodriguez, and in any case we will review the videos, but they have been used expressions that had been used at other times in this very debate, exactly the same expressions. We've been calling for a vote... [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Pujol. [[Pause.]] Say it. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.162.0	It seems to me that Mr. Rodriguez has alluded to me. It's not insulting to describe. To insult is one thing; to describe is another.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.163.0	Mr. Cid, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.164.0	For contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.165.0	Say it. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.166.0	It seemed to me that company Jordi Albert linked the return of the remaining 30_per_cent of the double pay of the employees, in this case, to the approval of the assumptions. I want to read the agreement signed by the councillor, who says: "Assuming that the Generality's assumptions are not adopted, the parties are committed to implementing other return mechanisms from the remaining double pay. Therefore, I would not like to assume that this is a new excuse not to end up returning double pay to work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.167.0	Thank you, Congressman. Yes, Mr. Gragera, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.168.0	If you'll allow me, for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.169.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.170.0	In the intervention of the spokesperson for Junts per Cat, he mentioned that our group mocks digital advances. On the contrary, we are totally in favour of digital advances. What we are not going to allow is for you to use them to invest in fugitives from justice or to build digital republics. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.171.0	All right. We called for a vote. They know that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. Let us therefore proceed to the vote on the validation of this decree. The vote begins. Decree 3/2019_is ratified unanimously: 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. A valid copy, and in accordance with Rule 158.4 of the Rules, it is up to me to ask the Chamber whether any parliamentary group wants this decree to be passed as the draft law. [[Pause.]] Don't you? So we validate this law decree, which will not now be dealt with as the law project. And now with the next item on the order of the day, which is the total debate on the proposed law of recognition of the right of escort and therapeutic kids to victims of violence... [[Widow's remorse.]] He forgives – he forgives, he forgives. [[Rialles.]] You're right. Now he was moving on and leaving them without a dinar. No, they can go dinar. We suspend the session until three and a half hours late, two-quarters of four. Thank you. [[The session is suspected to be three-quarters of a half-and-eight-minute and is resumed two-quarters of a quarter of a quarter of a half-and-a-half-minute. He chairs the President of Parliament, accompanied by the first and second vice-presidents, the first, second and third secretaries. Attend the Bureau the Secretary General, the late Esther Andreu and Fornos.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.172.0	Well, good afternoon. Let's take back the Ple. [[Proposal for a law on the recognition of the right to accompany escorted and therapeutic children to victims of male violence (totality debate)]] [[202-00033/12]] The fourth point of the order of the day, now, is the debate to the totality on the proposed law of recognition of the right of escort and therapeutic children to victims of male violence. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, she has the word, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which is the proposer to present this legislative initiative, Mrs Naomi de la Calle, when she wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.173.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor, before we begin, I want to greet and send a warm hug to all those people who are seeing us from home, especially those who are doing it with their guardian angels, as many of them call them. Machist violence is one of the clearest manifestations of the inequality of our society, it is a global problem. Since 2003, the year in which sexist murders began to be recorded, almost a thousand women have been murdered in Spain, at the hands of their partners or ex-partners. And despite the fact that we have adopted laws to combat gender-based violence, much work remains to be done to ensure the protection, life and recovery of victims and their children. In 2010, a resolution adopted by the United Nations incorporated the need for public authorities to ensure adequate and sensitive medical, legal and social services for victims of such violence. The object of the law that we bring to debate today is one more tool, which has proved effective in combating this scourge and in helping to recover the victims. And to contextualize, I would like to share the process of creating this law. In 2015, when I was not yet a deputy, at an event I was approached by a colleague who was a lawyer, who knew about the existence of this therapeutic tool, its benefits and also the problems faced by the victims of macho violence, who were opting for it. I immediately came into contact with several of these survivors, who told me first person the benefits and the change that had taken place in their lives to count on the accompaniment of a therapeutic dog. Upon joining this chamber, I met with the support and initiative of my colleague Carmen de Rivera, who immediately got to work, being able to present the law, finally, at the end of 2016, in the last legislature. In the months following its presentation, several autonomous communities launched pilot tests, such as Murcia or Andalusia, giving excellent results in the recovery of the victims' self-esteem, empowerment, and the recovery of their lives. In Catalonia, small attempts have also been made, with projects that have some things in common, but some of these projects have encountered the problem that today, with this law, we try to solve. This bill aims to equate dogs used as assisted therapy for victims of gender-based violence with guide dogs, which are currently using people with visual disabilities. This, guide dogs, can have free movement and access to all roads, transport, institutions and public establishments. This is not the case for dogs who are part of the therapies assisted to victims of gender-based violence. So, the need to match them. As I said, the victims who have opted for this type of therapy tell us that there are many places they cannot enter, such as restaurants, cafes, shopping centers, and even in the courts where they have to testify against their aggressor. And an example is found at the Sabadell Court, where they are trying to launch a pilot test similar to that carried out in Tarragona, where they made available to the victims a therapeutic dog at the time, at the same time to declare against their aggressor. And this pilot test, in which only this support was given at the time of the declaration, demonstrated the reduction of anxiety and stress levels; the improvement of the physical, emotional and mental state of the victims; the improvement, also, of self-esteem; and the self-perception and improvement of the confidence and security of victims of gender-based violence or crimes against sexual freedom. And the main stumbling block they found in Sabadell's courts was finding the legal way to allow the dogs access and walk around the building. And in principle, it was thought that the formula could consist in considering dogs as supporting animals to the police, thus allowing access to public buildings; formula that has not yet prospered, because these dogs are not police dogs, and this is something that we would like to make clear and that, entities like the Escan Foundation, known for working with these dogs, have asked us to focus on it. These dogs are very different from the safety dogs. First, because potentially dangerous breeds are not used but breeds such as farm dogs, German shepherds, or golden retriever. Second. Because, unlike safety dogs, the instinct with which you work in training is that of protection, in no case are attack dogs, because their function is to repel so that the victim will have time to flee or call the police. The associations and entities that have been involved in similar projects for years, tell us that none of the users of these dogs have ever suffered aggression since dogs are a deterrent. Because, as I said before, the dog's function is more dissuasive than defensive, they act as a barrier. In addition, these dogs also have a therapeutic function. Working together and training with the dog empowers the survivors, fear decreases, just as with anxiety levels. And we're not talking about anything new. Many entities have been carrying out animal-assisted therapies for years in interventions with vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, with neurodegenerative diseases, people with cerebral palsy, children with ASD or, as I have said, victims of male-based violence. There are some projects that have even united women victims of this violence, with dogs that have been abandoned and even mistreated, creating a very powerful and rich environment for their self-knowledge, to improve their ability to express themselves emotionally, to socialize, to be able to create new emotional bonds and dare to trust themselves again, or others. These guardian angels diminish the fear of the victims and their presence allows them to get out more protected and feel strengthened their security at the emotional level. The law that we bring to debate today is a very simple law, which consists only of four articles that consist, basically, in recognizing the right of accompanying dogs of protection and therapeutics to victims of male violence, that meet the requirements to have them, matching the rights and obligations of the possession of dogs guide for people with visual disabilities, so that they can freely access, accompanied by their dog, any space or building, so that they can carry out their life accompanied by a dog that will have a deterrent effect on the aggressor, as well as a therapeutic effect. The macho violence takes many lives and causes great suffering, and the awareness of cases of macho violence is only a first step in the path towards the elimination of this scourge. For this, as public representatives, it is up to us to move from protest to proposal, to concrete measures. And this is an innovative measure, a reinforcement of the protection measures that are already recognised. An innovative measure, which has already demonstrated its effectiveness in the psychological and emotional recovery, integral, of women and also of their children. A measure that needs a boost from the public administration, as other autonomous communities have already done, such as the Murcia region, which has already recognized the free movement and access of these animals by road, transport and public establishments. This law is a necessary reform, if we want the users of these dogs to live their lives in freedom and not have limited their ability to move. This law is nothing other than the request that we received from survivors of macho violence, and we want it to be processed so that all parliamentary groups can listen to these women and the experts who can make contributions and that we can adopt it with the consensus of all. It will be a law of this Parliament, not a specific party, and it will be a law for them and their guardian angels. And I know that it's difficult, in the times that are running, and that lately, it's very spread out of sanitary cords, but this law was first introduced in 2016, and it's a tool that's proven effective, and that's helping many survivors to get their lives back. The struggle for the emancipation of women is a global struggle, which requires the commitment of the whole of humanity and in no case the patrimonialization or the instrumentalization of a struggle that is common to partisan interests. And what do I mean by that? That I don't..., I don't allow any man or woman to tell me what I have to be, what I have to say, or what I can or can't defend. And we understand feminism as a movement whose fundamental objective is equality between women and men, but there are many feminisms. Some of them, opposites. But what they had in common until recently was the consciousness of being a global struggle, a common struggle, which needs the union of all those who are aware of the servitudes with which the women of this century must continue to bear. And the disadvantaged position from which we left, at the very moment of birth. Frankly, I believe that, in order to eradicate inequalities, we need to work to make every day March 8th, and we need to do what is united and united. Otherwise, we will never achieve that goal. That said, I ask you not to see this law as a law of Citizens, but as a law for survivors of macho violence, and if Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra withdraw their amendment to the whole, we will be able to count in this Parliament with the testimony of entities such as Project Pepo, entities such as the Foundation Escan, the Association MUM, Projects Tan Amigos, or the Foundation Affinity, or AEPA Catalonia. Also with that of survivors, who will tell us that having these supporting dogs has meant a real liberation, that without them they would not dare to go out on the street, that anxiety, panic attacks have diminished to almost disappear completely. That they can now have social relations and that their self-esteem has risen. They need to raise in Catalonia the limits on the circulation and access to dogs used as assisted therapy in cases of male violence, matching those to guide dogs. Indeed, for the survivors, it will be great news if, as I have been told, these amendments as a whole are to be withdrawn and this Parliament is working to remove the limitations that exist in the use of dogs to support victims of gender-based violence. Right now, they are in their homes, seeing us, accompanied by their dogs and if the amendment really withdraws, they will soon be in this same institution, testifying to their experience. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.174.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, as soon as the speech to the totality presented jointly for the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia has been withdrawn, the parliamentary groups will speak to express their position and, first of all, has the word on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Beatriz Silva, when she wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.175.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. The latest survey on sexist violence reveals that 64_per_cent of women in Catalonia recognize that at some point in their lives they have been subjected to some form of sexist violence. From my group, we believe that the fight against this scourge should be a top political priority, and that is why all initiatives aimed at finding solutions should be valued. In this regard, we will participate actively in the presentation of this bill, which is presented today by the Citizens' Group, so that victims of male violence are accompanied by escorted dogs. However, I would like to make a few points. The first is that, so far, this initiative does not have the support of any organization of victims of male violence. We do not have reports from public agencies that endorse it, nor was it considered by the specialists who drafted the State Pact against Gender Violence, who spent many hours analysing and prioritizing the measures considered most appropriate to address this problem. Since this initiative was presented, we have consulted with specialists from my parliamentary group in order to assess it, and we have not found anyone who welcomes it. I met myself with a group of teachers from the Bar Association of Barcelona who work in the field of macho violence, who know the project, and their opinion was that it had more drawbacks than benefits. Yesterday I received the call from Montse Pineda, whom you know well because she is one of the specialists who recently appeared on the Commission for Equality of Persons to present one of the most comprehensive reports on the situation of the network of care for victims of macho violence in Catalonia. And he called me because he wanted to express to me his concern that today we approved this proposal. He explained to me that he was concerned that there was no evidence that it was beneficial, that he had not been subjected to any gender perspective study, and that, moreover, as it is raised, it is contrary to the universal spirit that a law should have, to the extent that it should be useful for a whole collective and then be able to apply in a particular way. That was your opinion. In particular, she said that it seemed to her that this was a particular measure intended to become a law. The point is that we have not had the opportunity to do this previous debate, here in Parliament, because you have not given us the opportunity to do that. They have brought this proposal because we are at the door of 8 March. So far, there has been no appearance at the Equality Commission where we could have discussed this issue. We believe that at a time when resources are totally insufficient to meet needs, we should be prioritizing what we all agree on, and working in the same direction. Yesterday, we had the opportunity to hear in the Committee on Equality of Persons two specialists who described to us a desolating panorama about the situation of the network of care for victims of macho violence in Catalonia. They explained to us how resources are totally inadequate: there is no housing to accommodate the victims of their aggressors, there are no professionals to provide psychological care, we do not provide support, we are not working on the reintegration of the victims or on the care of their children. They also said that it was urgent to deploy comprehensive forensic assessment units because they are a key tool for measuring the risk of women victims and deciding on custody, but also to reduce the risk of the daughters and children of the aggressors. We also need to increase the number of specialized care services, SIEs, which are at a minimum, and extend the care network, which currently reaches only one_of_each_ten women who are estimated to be victims of sexist violence in Catalonia. All the specialists we have spoken to have said that it would be logical for us to be prioritising these issues. I repeat that we will take part in the process of this proposal, we will evaluate the project, we will try to see that there are many contributions from experts, but we would like to see the new initiatives in this field, which are brought to this Parliament, dealt with in a different way, for example by proposing a joint proposal, agreed and worked on before, after having listened to the people who know the subject well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.176.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Congresswoman Susanna Segovia..., Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.177.0	Yes; sorry, President, we made a change and had not communicated. Well, good afternoon. The number of complaints of male assault increases every year. We talk about four daily assaults; half a dozen women will suffer during their lifetimes. We are talking about inadequate criminal responses, insufficient induction orders, absolutely inadequate sexual and emotional education, insufficient body formation, insufficient resources. Yesterday, in the Commission of Igualtat, we also had a few other reports about the lack of political leadership in the fight against masculinist rapes, which there is no violence against masculinist rapes. We have been four years without any strategic policies of gender equality, from 2015 until now. Repairing male violence victims is also a shame. There are no work counsellors, there is collapsing access to housing, there have been severe deficiencies in the care of children and girls victims of male violence, no attention is paid to the diversity of women victims or to the diversity of sexual violence. Faced with this panorama of multiple deficiencies in the protection network of victims to male-based rapes – also in elements that could be solved by modifying a law of consensus, such as that of 2008, against male-based rapes – you, today, come here with a hyper-concrete initiative – hyper-concrete –: right-wing recognition of escorted and therapeutic kids to male-based rape victims. Look, it may be an interesting initiative for some women, we value the need to make proposals, any kind of proposal in the line of the fight against masculinist violence, but it makes us feel that you have detected an initiative that can be valid, and, without going to the point or without appreciating the feeling, the place. It is the usual way of Ciutadans' proposals. We generate some doubts, his proposal. I put it to the concrete, Member – I put it to the concrete –: doubts. There have been many external evaluation reports of Law 5/2008 and its impact. Yesterday, we also had some, part of some of these reports, to the Igualtath Commission. The escorted boys did not appear as a priority of the entities in the heads of these reports, they were not mentioned in the report. Another doubt. We are not clear that in order to implement this measure, we need to amend the 2008 law. The law, in fact, does not recognize any other type of service, for victims of male, self-protection, such as mobile teleassistance, a measure that exists, that has proved effective for all women and that is not in the law. It could also be implemented without a direct modification of the law. It is a doubt that appears to us because of the need to modify it in the law. We are not aware that there has been any type of test of the measure with monitoring of experts to propose it, include it directly to the law. We are not clear on how this service will be given. Will it be accessible to all women? Is it going to guarantee help, economic coverage for those who can't cope economically with a recourse of this type and who may need it? Is it a universal measure of access, that serves, therefore, for all women, with the emotional disorder that represents, therefore, the violence, the precariousness of many survivors? Doubts, concrete doubts respect the proposal we are making. Doubts, too, more money. Our perspective respects how to attack the subject of masculinist rapes is more of empowerment and the right to live without violence. The perspective on which I understand to be the basis of his proposal, his measure, is more of a security perspective, of self-protection. It does not mean that a perspective of self-protection is not very good in many cases, but we do not really know how to guarantee this self-protection by means of a weapon, between comets, because this implies an attitude of always being alert. It also happens, I don't just tell it about kids, it happens in other cases as with the wristbands they warn if they are violating the protection perimeter. Always living with this warning is hard and it's distressing; we don't know if it's the best way, at least, at our parents, it's not the best way to fight in this perspective that we want to put more of a hold on the right to live without rape, not to be self-protecting. If you want, I'll explain it to you in another way. Transform the topic into an individual element or attack it from a social and global perspective: the responsibility is of the individual or the responsibility is of the society. There are two perspectives, which obviously contrast in a transformative formation of the left and a liberal formation. Nor does it adapt, this perspective of itss, to which the experts define as the cycle of the violence. And what, unfortunately, women find with aggressor men, many times they find again with these aggressor men because they have children in common, mainly, or also for other circumstances. And, therefore, whether under these circumstances the self-protection tool is a dog or not... it doesn't work. Well, doubt it. Different doubts that we wanted to raise, but, look, we didn't want to be making them a comment a little bit more there. On the eve of March 8th, we have a proposal as this shows us again what is his way of proposing policies, proposals, measures, to this House. You propose without a thread, it's the feeling we always have. You propose without a clear idea, a concrete project that defines them. Maybe because he's trying to define them, it's not the case that voters are being invaded from the People's Party or even from Vox. It's a reflex, I suppose, of this liberal feminism that they say they're exercising. That's not new, liberal feminism. In case the books of feminist philosophy or the logic of liberal feminism have not been read, liberal feminists were of those who also set bombs on the bullies, with the suffragists, to demand the vote. What they defended as feminism was equal opportunities not individualism or meritocracy, Mrs Arrimadas, not individualism or meritocracy. Liberal feminism also defends equal opportunities. You are doing with feminism the same as with the national debate or with any other debate, using it as a weapon of division and conflict, with which you expect – I suppose – to raise votes from the conflict because it has always worked, you see the conflict. They're talking about gender warfare trying to criminalize a political and social movement that's got all the rights we all enjoy right now. They defend an elitist, meritocratic feminism that ignores the structural conditions that feminize the poor and are also an expression of economic and institutional violence. We are told that "equality is not achieved by comparing citizens with outdated ideologies. Of course not. Do you succeed in pacifying or acceding to the government with the votes of those fallen ideologies? So far, you have shown us that you are a conflict party and a party of appearances. And it makes a lot of sense to us that this is also their feminism. In the week of March 8, you have prioritized wearing a hyper-concrete measure that does not attack the root of the weaknesses and deficiencies we have in the law and in the victim protection network. We are concerned, obviously – and I don't understand why they don't worry about you – that there are no feminist entities behind a proposal like yours. Miri, keep it up, we're always there to get better and to fight the masculinist violence. We are always in our own way, which is from the hands of experts, from those who will be selling in the street, from those who defend the rights of all women without merit. In November we said it clearly in a motion in this House, for us to amend Law 5/2018, however, in what sense? Modify it to include institutional violence, to affirm all forms and scopes of sexual rape and to adapt them to what we are now living in. Anyway, we're not the ones who ever deny any kind of debate. Therefore, for us to debate his proposal from all these concrete and more substantive questions, which I have just expressed in my intervention, which generates his proposal, but obviously we will try to work and improve in his processing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.178.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed is the turn of the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.179.0	Well, in the first place, to say that, with capitalism and patriarchy is feedback and, therefore, they make a criminal alliance, we, in no case, can share the hope of liberal feminism than defense Ciutadans. And, therefore, what we want to get into is concrete to the proposal they make in this proposal for the law of recognition of the right of escort and/or therapeutic children's escort rights for victims of male violence. It is a proposal, like many others that Ciutadans presents, that it is a bulletin, that it is a winged proposal and that it is not part of a planning and study of which is the structural situation that we live. We value processing as positive and as necessary, but we understand that it is an emergency measure that will obviously not eliminate male violence, but it could take over the women who have suffered directly the most aggressive face of patriarchal violence. That they can accompany themselves with an escorted and/ or therapeutic gor and that at the same time they have no limitations to access public spaces in the same way that is guaranteed with the helpers is a positive measure, but this does not tackle the structural problem. It seems that when we present proposals of these characteristics the male cell violence falls, and the male cell violence is not a fatality nor will we fall from the cell. It has its origin in the patriarchal capitalist system, an unequal and unjust system that applies violence to the gifts on a daily basis. And it has been, it will be the constant and permanent militancy of feminist movements that is making and will face this system that kills us, and not the measures that we can adopt from an institution that is also complicit in this violence. Still calling for our attention, as today or on the days around March 8, some representatives of political organizations who are responsible for antisocial policies that have more intensely and quantitatively punished women, who are still talking about putting their lives in the centre. When we speak of putting life in the centre, of worthy lives and of better material conditions of women's lives, we speak of the fact that in the capitalist and patriarchal system and in the Spanish state, women have no guarantee of being able to live in peace, without exploitation, without oppression and without suffering violence. And it is precisely this violence, this structural violence imparted for this institution, for the states and for the European Union, for the European Capital Union, which condemns us to the popular and working majority and with special cruelty to working women, condemns us to a life of misery: we are talking about more risk of social exclusion, poorer and less purchasing capacity and, as all indicators show us, lower wages, labour discrimination, inaccessible housing at luxury prices or more temporary in our contacts. When we talk about structural violence we talk about that violence that affects us in all spheres of our lives and that prevents or prevents us from deciding for ourselves. We are talking about rape that is exercised for the same system, for the same justice, for the police, for the health system, for the pension system, for the power lobby. And that is why we continue to insist that within the patriarchal capitalist system we are neither free nor free; we continue to insist that, in a system that applies violence against women as a survival methodology, this system is to be presented as our enemy major and that, for many measures that we can approve today in this Parliament, without a real process of social transformation we will not eradicate male violence. And last but not least, and respecting the aim of totality, we absolutely share the proposal made by other groups concerning the withdrawal of the present proposal from the law of Ciutadan and which was worked on by the Commission of Igualtat. But it looks like they're still chasing headlines, the Ciutadans Group. It seemed to us that it was a positive petition, because it strengthened the proposal and certainly allowed it to gain quality to this. But, bearing in mind that Ciutadans did not want to withdraw it, neither were we in favour of voting in favour of the campaign in totality, because this proposal actually allows us to move forward in the processing of a content that can improve the situation of women who have suffered male violence. And that's why we thank the other groups for removing the puzzle from the totality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.180.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of MP Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.181.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., well, when many women have – still today, huh? – fear of reporting, fear of reporting that they are victims of abuse and violence, it is important not only to establish parameters of awareness-raising measures, but it is also important, therefore, to promote preventive measures; we believe that it is fundamental. And that is why in the State Pact against Gender Violence we established and improved, partly also thanks to the agreement of the rest of the parliamentary forces, measures and much progress in this area, both in detection and prevention, and in education, even as well as in protection, after, of that courageous step of many women who have felt violence in their own bodies and who have had the courage to denounce it, right? , with how difficult it is sometimes to differentiate and put the feeling before the pain of the loved one who mistreats. We believe that the progress was very positive, despite the fact that Podemos did not want to participate in the State Pact against Gender Violence. And it is true that many years ago these measures, this tool in which the use of therapeutic dogs and so-called dogs has become known as escorts by women who have suffered abuse, is positive. It has happened to us a little like the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which we have not found specific measures, based on more or less official studies, regarding those entities that have been working for many years on the protection and improvement of measures against gender-based violence, but yet we believe it is positive, right? , which is positive to establish such measures. Why? Because we know that dogs, in the end, being..., both escorted and therapeutic, what they achieve is to improve reinvigoration, to re-trust, those women who have suffered abuse, give them better conditions to recover themselves; it also helps to give them more security, to have more confidence..., in short, that they are..., or that they see their well-being improved day by day. And it is therefore true that there are a number of obstacles, which are very clear and which refer to the non-extension of this right to the use of dogs of this type, as happens, for example, with people with visual disabilities, and we know that this is a barrier and an obstacle. The main obstacle is that these dogs cannot access certain public and private spaces. But I have to be a little critical of the bill, because that openness, that elimination of that obstacle depends on a real decree, and it depends on a real decree, 3250/1983, which is true, then, that the autonomous communities develop. We, the People's Party, in the Senate, were able to adopt precisely a modification of that royal decree that would allow those therapeutic dogs or escorts to access certain buildings. We were able to approve it, we took it to Congress, and unfortunately, the call for general elections has interrupted that change that would have taken place. But, however, we believe that, well, that despite the fact that the road is under way, that we have here the example of what has been done in national politics, that is, what is going to allow all women who suffer or have suffered abuse throughout Spain to have equal opportunities, equal opportunities also in escort dogs and in dogs of a therapeutic nature, I think it is a good way, I believe that the law has its shortcomings, the proposal presented today, but that it is loaded with intentions. And of course the People's Party is not going to oppose it, among other things because it has already taken steps in that direction at the general level both in Congress and in the Senate. So go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.182.0	All right, thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mrs Rut Ribas's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.183.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Yes, we have removed the message to the totality, because from the entrance we did not see from the very clear what contained what presented the text to us, but we believe that it is very important to be able to debate here in Parliament any question, therefore, that it improves the day-to-day of the women who have suffered or suffered gender-based violence. So now we are in front of a very important debate but there has never been an intention to talk about it in the most opportune place, as could be the Committee on People's Equality – already referred to by Mrs Silva. Neither has there been any debate, no reflection on respect, and the Ciutadans Group brings it here directly without having analysed the consequences either. We arrived at the plenary without having previously been able to listen to neither expert nor professional leaders on the subject in question. Right now we're short of experience, and so we think it's precipitated. There is a lack of justifiable elements and evidence to be able to introduce it into a law, and more so than the way it is proposed, with so much urgency. We believe that what would be good is to study and investigate the subject, to listen to experts and to study some pilot evidence, to see if it is effective and meaningful, this formula of security, and, if so, then propose it as an official measure, and not as the Ciutadans Group has explained to us, that we believe it is in a hasty way, and neither have we studied the consequences they can have, because we believe that they lack data, and also a reflection of respect. In addition, as I said, the way in which the text of the proposal is put forward we believe that it deals..., we visualize, go, that it treats indistinctly both the therapeutic as well as the escorted one, even though now the street deputy has tried to clarify a little which is her proposal. But we believe that this entry layout is not correct, because we are talking about two types of guys and different uses, which require concrete training in each case. Right now, of the types of kids classified according to the functions they do, there is nothing that fits the demand for the proposal. Therefore, there would also be a deeper reform of the Law 19/2009, from access to accompanying people with help. As it is, we see that there is a lack of planned studies that can indicate that it is an effective measure, and at the moment it deepens in the public cost or in the body that should be charged with this measure. Yes, it is true that there are experiences and associations, as has already been mentioned, and companies that offer their services of help for women who have suffered or suffered male violence; but no one has analysed with much depth their benefits, requirements or conditions as to establish that a right is publicly guaranteed and possibly universal, beyond which the gor can enter public and common spaces. As we know, we believe in a society that must seek to end the stigma of being a victim of male violence and to have its full recognition as a survivor, so that when a woman has suffered a male assault she needs a recovery process. That's why you need to be able to access all the resources to deal with the situation and there is no obstacle to further develop within the company and without any plan. A go's company, it's obvious that it can help increase self-esteem, improve control of emotions, promote social relationships, and get out on the street in an abundance of ways. But, on the other hand, we need to be aware that the woman who has always been accompanied by a specialised and recognizable gor as such will not be able to remove the stigma of victim during all this time. We do not deny the possibility that, in cases where there is an opportune belief, the company of a gor is beneficial, but in any case, a good management and a study are needed, taking into account the resources that can be available, how to invest them and what their training should be, and above all to be clear in which cases they can be offered. Nor can we forget from the Republican Group that there is no firm position of respect for feminist movements. Therefore, institutions must be curious at the time of creating rights on which there is no consensus in the feminist movement. In short, we are in front of a law that raises many doubts, but unfortunately it is not strange that we find it here today and that it is carried by the Ciutadans Group, because it seems that it is its way of covering its shames. Therefore, it seems to us contradictory that we present this proposal to increase resources in the fight against male violence when ultra-Catholic, extremist, male, LGBTI-fóbica and ultra-Fóbica association Make You Hear has made public that it would ask the Party of Ciutadans, and among others, that laws against male violence; they are literal words and that we have dyed them passing through the streets. The day associations like these don't take them as referents to apply their demands that they intend to end with so many years of struggle and the victory of rights achieved will have credibility at the time of talking about feminism and fighting male violence. And, obviously, it's not a question of handing out notebooks, as it felt on some press wheel or statements. It is a question of defending all our rights to promote equality and fight for the eradication of any type of discrimination or social domination by reason of gender. It is a matter of making it clear that we are not citizens of second country; that we do not want to live in a patriarchal society, monopolized by men and their interests; that we defend all our individual values, but above all collect; that we want to end the wage gap; that we want to break the glass floor; that we want to end the invisible barrier that limits us to ascend in our professional career and to have work, social and political responsibilities; that we want to end the concepts of labour duties; that we want to stop the work of the family from being essentially women's activities; that we want to end the invisible barrier that restricts us to ascend in our professional career and to have work, social and political responsibilities; that we want to end the concepts of duty at home and family care; that we want to end the invisible barrier that limits us to our professional career and to have work, social and political responsibilities; that we want to end the concepts of duty of duty at home and care of the family from being essentially women's activities; that when we go to the night and note that someone else who is behind us, we are not happy, but we are happy that we are able to see that it, but but a girl; that a girl; that we are happy; that we are able to see that we; that a girl; that we have a girl; that we have a girl; that we have a woman; that we have a woman; that we have a woman; that we have a job; that we have a job; that we have a job; that we have a job; that we have a job; that we have a job; that we have a job; that we; that we have a job; that we have a job; that we have a job; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we have a job; that we have a job; that we have a job; that we; that we have a job; that we; that we; that we have a job; that we; that we; that we have a job; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we; that we are In short, much work remains to be done so that feminism ends all the way, and feminists must stop justifying us and worry all the time. Faced with all this, you are complicit in getting out of the hands of those who do not just deny these contrasting facts but pretend to involve even more. And in the dynamic that we are already accustomed to today they present this initiative to try to counter it. It is obvious that the Republican Group is in favour of increasing the measures and mechanisms to improve the conditions in which women who have suffered or suffer male violence are found, and that is why we will participate in this debate. But it must be done well, analyzing and working from the hands of feminists, professionals and experts; studying how to do it and how we can better protect the women who have suffered and suffer male violence, but above all how to avoid male violence, the key of everything folded, and not forcing a parliamentary debate at the gates of March 8 in order to cover headlines and cover their shameful pacts with the extreme right. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.184.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mrs Anna Tarrés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.185.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, as Mrs Ribas has already said, we have withdrawn the message to the whole in order not to block an opportunity to continue discussing the best measures to deal with victims of male violence, but also, Mrs De la Calle, because you cannot use the slogan more often."The Parliament and the independent groups fall to the Law of Protection of Victims of Male Violence. Look, we think this isn't the way things are done, we share the object, but we don't agree with the layout of this bill, where uncompatible concepts are barred. The subject we are dealing with is not a minor one, it is a sacre against which we must fight, and we must fight among all of you, and you are presenting this law, the truth, a law that you have said very innovative, and it is so innovative, that you are neither consensual with the victims nor with the experts nor with the entities, that you may have some pilot proof, but for now you have not been debated in depth. We would be happy to stop using male violence for electoral purposes, that at the gates of this March 8th we seem to find ourselves in a competition to see that presents more policies of gender, but by responsibility to the country and by respect for the victims we would like to stop making empty electoral speeches of content and empty of legality. And I made it clear: we are totally involved and compromised with all gender policies, and we will always put ourselves at the side of victims, and we will not discard the efforts and resources that serve to prevent, care for, protect women victims of rape. But before regular it might be good to study its effectiveness and the possible demand there may be. Neither the Istanbul Convention of 2011 nor the State Pact on General Violence convolve as a follow-up. We are ahead of a law proposal that refers to the better quality of life of victims of male violence through the escorted and/ or therapeutic boys, objectively shared, but that we should attend to it in an adjunct manner. The text presents the concept of escorted and/ or therapeutic goes, with several favorable arguments: facilitating the full recovery of the victim, helping to increase safety, as a therapeutic measure and as a deterrent element. And he's asking for his equalization with the treatment of helpers. From the start, a bar of functions is contemplated for these kids that is not compatible. Mirin, a caregiver is an animal that is taught, calm, docile, with an absolutely predictable response, that gives emotional support and, obviously, responds naturally and obeys coexistence in society. This fact is what allows him access to places where other kids can't access. A taste of therapy focuses more on emotional support in case of psychological failures or disorders, from mental disabilities to vulnerable opinions and collections, which would be what we are talking about. But in the use of an escorted dog, which is called for a deterrent effect, which conveys a sense of security and which, if necessary, can act in defense of the victim, we are defining a trained dog for defense and attack. And from here the regulation is very clear, only to go to Law 10/99 of 30 July, on the tenance of children considered potentially dangerous: in Article 1, we find the definition; in Article 2, we find the measures of security; in Article 5, the regulation of teaching. If we go to Decree 170/2002 of 11 June, we will find the measures in the matter of children considered potentially dangerous. Given the regulations, we understand that there is no compatibility between the caregiver and the dissuasive escort; we are talking about potentially dangerous kids for whom physical ability and psychological fitness are required. I would like to assess whether the resource is suitable for a person who needs help at many levels is this, the most convenient. A defense gog is a gog that to defend at some point donate has to attack. Therefore, in this sense, a dog can become a weapon, and a weapon that has initiative and self-will. The use of these trained animals is limited to safety, with very professional staff and who have a certain physical profile to avoid any equivocal reaction of the gor. Giving permission because these animals share areas as they do the kids' attendance doesn't seem appropriate. And of course we agree with the use of therapeutic kids for the better quality of life of victims, because it increases their self-esteem, because it serves to strengthen their personality, to reaffirm their authority and to learn to give orders and to manage. But you, today, with this initiative, once more, put it all in the same bag, and what they do is create confusion. I will remind you that the eix 3 of the Strategic Pla of Gender Equality Policies 2019-2022, which is about to be approved, speaks specifically about the prevention and eradication of male violence. In this sense, the Government will invest €37_million and will set aside about 100 actions to compliment the Government's priorities, among which I would like to highlight the better detection and identification of risk situations and the existence of male violence; the deployment, expansion and improvement of the care network and full recovery for all women who suffer or have suffered male violence and their dependent children. We are talking about emergency reception, specialized intervention services, short-stay places, among other habitating resources. For all this, please ask them to stop using serious questions for short-term electoral benefits and above all to stop confusing people. As anthropologist Marcela Lagarde says, if they're not feminists, the rights, they're not human. And we put them in the position to join the vague, this feminist vague of this very divender, to make it look at the women and entities that work and have worked for the rights and freedoms of all of us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.186.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finish the debate and... yes, Mrs. De la Calle, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.187.0	Yes; well, by allusions, contradictions, that Congresswoman Marta Ribas has asked me a question and I would like to answer it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.188.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.189.0	Yeah. He asked me if I didn't care that there was no entity behind this bill. It is that those who are behind this bill are survivors of macho violence who approached us, asked us for a solution and whom Citizens wanted to give them an answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.190.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In any case, I said, once the debate was over and in keeping with the fact that they have not finally presented themselves to the totality, this initiative can continue its processing. Therefore, we proceed directly to the next point of the order of the day, starting with the interrogations... [[applause]] , starting with the interrogations. [[Question to the Government on environmental conflicts in Catalonia]] [[300-00092/12]] As you will recall, in the morning we made a change, and in this case the first question corresponds to what is the desire of the order of the day, that is, the question to the Government on environmental conflicts in Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. The question is made by Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.191.0	Well, the advisor knows that one of the priorities of our group, in this case Catalonia in Comú Podemos, is the environment, the struggle for the defense of the territory and also, in this case, the struggle against climate change, right? Our intention with this inquiry is basically to draw a picture of which are for us some territorial conflicts that we believe are important, to alert the Government in this case, to know firsthand what the Government of the Generality is doing and to see how it is also addressing these conflicts at the territorial level. The councillor, in the first place, knows that we in these last months, also together, would say, at last, with the government, we have been working intensely before the urban threats that affect in this case the Costa Brava and that have been denounced I would say repeatedly in this case for the platform SOS Costa Brava. We know that in these moments the Government of the Generalitat has put two moratoriums on urban projects that threatened mainly the Costa Brava. But we are concerned and concerned, as is being denounced in this case also by the SOS Costa Brava platform, that despite these two moratoriums there are some projects that symbolically, for theirs, no? , environmental impact and its territorial impact, continue to move forward. For example, this week, in Cadaqués, Sa Guarda continued to advance the urban project. Also continue in this case some of the urbanistic projects especially in Begur, as it has to see with « Jardins de sa Riera o la pedrera de s'Antiga. And we also wanted to know if the government was aware, if there were any opportunities, with the moratorium, to stop these projects, and in what situation were these projects that are reported for SOS Costa Brava. The second element that is also important for us is to know first-hand, in this case, how is the PDU situation of unsustainable soils. We understand that starting March 15th is when the period of public information will end, and therefore we would also like to know what is the timetable with which, in this case, the Consellaria de Territori e Sostenibilità (Constellaria de Sostenibilità) works in order to definitively set aside the Pla director of unsustainable soils, in this case, for the twenty-two municipalities of the Costa Brava. We also told you that we understand that this PDU also affects the municipalities of the interior, because the counselor knows that this urban pressure is moving, for example, to municipalities like Pau, and that in this case we have an affect that can affect not only the coast but also the interior territory, right? And, finally, also on the Costa Brava – the advisor knows, because we have also discussed it enough – we do not share in this case the prolongation of the C-32 to Lloret and beyond Lloret, especially for the affection that it can have in the area of Sant Pere del Bosc, where even all the ecological entities and again SOS Costa Brava denounce that it can affect more than sixty_hectares, destroying sixty_ thousand trees in this case of a space that we believe has natural interest. A_second element or a_second territorial scope that we wanted to situate is from SOS Costa Brava to SOS Pirineu. There are different projects that also concern us and occupy us in the Pyrenees. We have spoken, too, to the Commission of Territories – I know – and I believe that also to the Commission of Enterprise and Energy, also, about mining prospections in this case to the Pyrenees. We'd like to know in which state it is found. Especially, we are concerned about the case of Salau. We think that, moreover, the fact that you are within a natural park such as the Natural Park of the High Pyrenees is a theme, therefore, which should be the subject of special interest on the part of the Generality. We would like, therefore, to know what his view of respect is and also to see what we can do to try to avoid not only that the project is developed but also, from the outset, the same prospections, because they also have an environmental impact as environmental entities denounce. There is also a second element at the level of the Pyrenees that would also please us..., the comarques of the High Pyrenees, which we would like to place, and the comarques, too, of the mountain, which are the expansion projects of the ski slopes. In this case, there are even some plataforms such as, for example, "Savem col de Pal, which place the risk that there is an expansion of the station of the Molina. And we believe that this is a subject that should also be addressed, that we believe that a debate should take place, especially in the context of climate change – and then I will return – on the tourism model, too, to many of the right of the Pyrenees. It's obvious that Catalonia, isn't it? , it is a geographical area located in the Mediterranean, but obviously we also have the fate of having, in this case, snow sports and, in addition, also having ski slopes, but we also believe that, well, we need to put a certain limit on this development of ski resorts. And, above all, we also want to do it in a week when, well, you pull thousands with the project, in this case, of Winter Games 2030, right? , by Pirineus-Barcelona. I think it's obvious I'm calling a fight, huh? , a social debate, that is a debate..., obviously, I understand that there is – obviously – who defends it, from sports entities, but we also believe that it is an environmental debate, huh? And we also want to do so, in this case, not only from the border of the territory, also from the city of Barcelona, because, look, my personal opinion, I also say it: it's difficult and I think it's contradictory to talk about the Winter Olympics with an environmental dimension, huh? I think it's complex for the kind of sports they do, for the kind of... Winter Olympics with an environmental dimension, huh? , sustainable, to say the least. I know the words can handle everything, but I think that, from our point of view, it's complex and I think it's time to talk and I think the debate should also have this environmental dimension, in a context, as I said, also of climate change, right? And, then, also know how, in this case, the Urban Master Plan of Non-Sustainable High Pirinaeus is evolving. Speaking of urban master plans, I do think that... we want to reflect on it and that it's something that we also want to announce, that we also want to discuss and work on the modification of the Urban Law, because we have the feeling that urban master plans, rather than a planning instrument, have become an instrument of intervention. Many times, at last, without the consent of the territory and I will give you two examples. The first is the PDU of Granvia-Llobregat. You know that there is a very great opposition, even so, in this Parliament, or this PDU, in the Committee of Territories, has been rejected for most of the Parliament. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I, moreover, with various opinions within his own Government, for example, in this case, there is a group that supports the Government, therefore, which jointly voted on our proposal to rebuild the urban plan, which particularly affects the area of the Parc Agrari de Can Trabal. And, then, also, in this case, later, one of the urban master plans that you have put in the way, which is, in this case, the Pla urban director of the wheel, which has also very much repressed at the territorial level. There are some mayors, obviously, who are in favour of it, but some others, no, because of the affection they have for the territory and also because of the stake that is made at the level of mobility; of mobility not only private, but also, obviously, of private mobility, no? Then, some other issues that we want to place on him also have to see, for example... linked to the management of the aquifers and our rivers. We have talked enough – I will not go in there now – about the public management of water and about the recovery of ATL and the implications it has and how it has produced, in this case, the privatization of ATL, but we do want to place two elements that they want to see..., two examples that they want to see with the management of our water resources, right? In the first place, place the demand you have already made repeatedly, which is from the reversal of the Siurana-Riudecanyes transfer, which..., also know what your opinion is. It is obvious that we need the agreement, in this case, of the CHE, but we believe that it is. Despite this, what we are up for ecological entities is that ACA still does not see it with good eyes, and it is a demand that in this case, some ecological entities in the territory are also carrying it. And, then, also know what the Generality is doing, in this case, before the paper that is playing Endesa, for example, in the Fosca Valley. I would say, at last, of presumptions..., say'supposed' because they are being investigated for the prosecution of environmental crimes, Endesa, in this case, to substantially reduce – I would say'very substantial' the end of the Flamisell river, right? On the other hand, we also have all the debate on purins, which I think we should also have a debate – I would say ‘specific' – when, practically, more than 40 per cent of Catalonian aquifers are contaminated, in this case, by nitrates from purins, right? Therefore, these elements, we wanted to place them. And two elements that... – I finish, and then I will leave for the second turn the theme of the climate change –, that affect especially the geographic field of the Lands of the Ebro, that are, basically..., there are two elements that concern us, the first, above all, is the same situation of the Delta. These days, information is coming out about the regression that is-there in the Delta. Practically, we are talking..., for example, to the Buddha Island, which is an island of special interest for its biodiversity, we are talking about that in the last time it has been reduced almost 150_metres, plus, in this case, there is a reduction or a 10-15_metres annual retraction and, therefore, we understand that, obviously, it is not only the competence of the Generality, but the Ebre Delta does not understand any skills and, in this case, also various entities of the Ebre have come together in the Delta Consensus Table ; we would also like to know how you see the Generality and what we can do to try to avoid what is happening to the Ebre Lands. And also, in other areas, they also have other groups and we have also raised them, which is like, for example, the issue of olive trees and, in particular, of millenary olive trees, which there is a whole sector of business. And look at me, Mr. Terrades, about his bill – we also complained about it – that's why other groups had done it too. In short, we believe that there are important environmental projects in Catalonia, that Catalonia obviously has an interest in the defence of the environment, but we also believe that there are very important environmental risks, we believe that, moreover, there have been very important impacts on the territory and we would like this to be a priority issue for the Generality and, therefore, we have raised this question. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.192.0	Thank you, Mr. Cid. Then, to answer the question, the advisor of Territories and Sustainability Damià Calvet has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.193.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Counselors, congressmen, congressmen... Some environmental conflict has left, I mean, because it has made an incomplete rest of all the issues that concern us, in short, the daily work of the Department of Lands and Sustainability and, in concrete terms, the part of sustainability, the part that, therefore, manage the Secretariat of Environment and Sustainability and its team, and, indeed, it has talked about some issues that relate to the part of Urban Habitat and Territories, that is, all the issues of urbanism, we have the two secretaries here, accompanying us. Because, the truth is, when the question was raised in the terms of environmental conflicts, we didn't know exactly what conflicts I would be talking about, if many, one... In any case, you have made a relationship of some of the issues that, in other words, for one reason or another, are of interest to you and we will try to answer these questions. It's an eclectic bar, huh? Well, say so, but in any case, you're a fan of opposition, we understand that, and so I'll give you our point of view. I believe, and I go so far, that, in a society like Catalan, where, fortunately, awareness of the cure, of the preservation of the environment has grown very much in recent years, it is customary that we find ourselves with discrepancies in the territory, and nothing happens, just proves, precisely, this, that the citizens are living around them, that they are very alert – we always appreciate it – and that, therefore, they watch, raise the saying when there is something that does not convince them. But in any case, I will relate, so, some of the fears that you have posed on the table. I wanted to get closer to, say, tuned to some of the themes, but I'm going to try to follow the order you've served, right? In the first place, that of the moratoria of the Costa Brava. This is a subject that you know that, in fact, we have taken up with the Government, so, very attentive to the growing concern of the territory respects some urban development that, therefore, threaten, threaten the municipalities, the twenty-two coastal municipalities of Girona, of the Costa Brava. And I must say to you with great sincerity that I believe that, like the government, we have been valiant, we have taken the face off and, after we set out in which way we would face it, we have discussed this at various meetings, the secretary of Habitat Urba has moved to Girona's comarques on more than one occasion, so, in the end, we said: "We will make a director of unsustainable soils. We are doing it for all of Catalonia, but in any case, we will also start, after that of the High Pyrenees, with that of the Costa Brava and, while, logically, we will make this moratorium. A moratorium that first referred to the five-hundred-metre strip of the coast and then, in a few ton, with very few days of difference, we already referred to the totality of the municipal term of each of these twenty-two municipalities. And we're looking at one by one, a set of sectors that, actually, we think, for different parameters, huh? , of discontinuity, of proximity to the nuclei, of density, of pendants, of various well-objective parameters deserve to be reviewed, they deserve to be reviewed and brought back to where more convinced, made this analysis, including to the declassification. We've been strong, we've been distressed because we've incorporated, including, unconsolidated urban onlys, but we've incorporated urban onlys, some urban onlys, some solar ones, too, huh? , because, therefore, we believed that, indeed, it was worth it to lock them up. What's going on is that once you've marked this full road, we need to be very strict and very effective and, therefore, I've asked the Secretary of Housing Urba to do this review with diligence, so that we can, there on the run, raise the moratorium, there on the run, bring these sectors to the most relevant qualification and continue with the work of the Pla Director of Non-Sustainable solos, which I insist is a look at the planning of the territory, throughout Catalonia, on the planning of the territory of the entire very ambitious country and we will follow it. The theme of the C-32. Actually, huh? , the C-32 we believe is a necessary mobility infrastructure work, which, like the Government, therefore, we have renewed its process, which was its project, because, effectively, at a certain time, we have been having conflicts around the environmental impact study of this infrastructure work, but it is a work that we believe we must pull forward and that does not have the affection that you have assured you that you have. Logically, an infrastructure always has an impact on the territory, but we believe that, by putting the impact on the balance of the mobility we achieve with this work, so it weighs more the mobility we want to achieve, with some municipalities that need it; this we already know goes from Tordera, say, Lloret, Tossa and, therefore, we believe that the mobility that these municipalities need, densely populated and with a seasonal population in very important holiday periods, therefore, this is what it needs. To block the infrastructure, the C-32, with the urbanistic themes of the Costa Brava, well, it can sweep, from a point of view of social platform, but we differentiate them a lot – we differentiate them a lot – the moratorium on urbanistic themes; the C-32, infrastructure that is worth pulling forward, from a point of view of mobility. Mining prospections also worry us. We are, indeed, in a natural park area. We were strictly studying the request that was made and what we have determined, from the Secretary of Environment and Sustainability, is to demand a full environmental impact study, for which are the studies that can lead to prospecting. So, we're in a situation of a lot of control, if I may, a lot of control. Full environmental impact, not reduced, for the study that could lead to prospecting and there is much in the world, as it cannot otherwise be. The subject of possible enlargements of the areas of the mountain resorts, of the ski slopes, we like to say more mountain resorts than « ski trails, because they already know that they also have deseasonalized economic use, that is, in the summer. Well, they're the factories in the territory, they're the most important economic activities we have in the mountain communities, together and connected to the natural parks, and so we're a lot in the world. We have a lot of connections, in fact, some tracks are owned and we manage them from the railway company of the Generality and there is no possible expansion of these mountain stations that do not pass through the very thorough processing that has to pass, from an environmental point of view and from an urban point of view and, therefore, any possible expansion will pass, effectively and as it cannot otherwise be, for all of you and for all of the environmental values, from public information, I dream to say, including, also of participation and, if they get out, that can be considered, therefore, we will actually harvest them, because they are an important economic activity of our mountain communities. He specifically referred to the Olympic Games and, precisely, today– Winter Olympic Games Pirineus-Barcelona –, the presidential adviser, responsible for the sports policy of the country and also spokesman, has answered a question in reference to the government agreements that we are about to be able to, therefore, basing a candidacy as competitive as possible, a winning candidacy respect these Olympic Games. And that's what I'm saying, we really want to make a winning candidacy, because we think it can be a real social, economic revolution for the country, in short, but especially for mountain communities. And, obviously, these Olympic games have to be sustainable. It is not just rhetorical, they must be sustainable, from an environmental, social and economic point of view. It is precisely because they are sustainable that we apply. Because if we did some Olympic games in the old days, in which infrastructure, sometimes, ephemeral, and costs that could not be recovered, and that had an important environmental stake, we would not enter, and less in such a sensitive environment as the comarques of the Pyrenees. And, therefore, it is precisely because the IOC has incorporated all the concepts of sustainability into the criteria to be able to choose its own that we enter with a candidacy – from this government agreement, we are basing it also with the participation of the Department of Territories, from the Technical Office of Railways of the Generality – with a candidacy that is basically sustainable and that is a veritable revulsion for mountain trades. He's been talking about urban master plans. Home, that you spoke to me of not consenting in urban management plans, coming from you... You represent the space of the Communs, before the Initiative, and therefore participated in the Government of the tripartite, in which many urban management plans were laid out that these did not have consent with the territory, were made to force against the territory; the urban management plans drawn up before the Government of the Generalitat are master plans that count on the participation of the joints of the principle, there where they develop, whether the Hospitallet or follow the rutula – I suppose it refers to the area Martorell, Abrera, Sant Esteve Sesrovires – where we work in the Plan of Infrastructures that after it has to have..., it supports the urban management. We worked together with the joints. And of the Siurana-Riudecanyes, therefore, we have constituted the table, and it is a great advance, following the model of the Table of the Third, and with hopes that, effectively, we can reverse the effects that today, in the 21st century, are not desirable respect to the full ecological, respect to the ecological balance of the Siurana-Riudecanyes system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.194.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Congressman David Cid has the word again, for a five-minute time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.195.0	Well, the counselor said he had made an eclectic rest. It is true, or still, that our intention to make this question is precisely to raise a subject which I believe many times goes unnoticed in Catalan politics and which has gone unnoticed in the political debate in Catalonia, which is the protection of the environment and the defence of the environment, and which, moreover, we believe is a reality that in Catalonia many entities, many platforms, to a certain extent, are complaining and that what they claim is that the Government of the Generality is, in the best of cases, on its side, that it is an alien to deal with these... Because you were talking about discrepancies. Look, more than you disagree, I think it's attacks on the territory, and what we want, many of these times, is that the government of the generality is on the side, isn't it? , protecting the territory and preserving the territory. Even so, I would say, at least, there are no new attacks on the territory. Why, of course, did you plant me that the C-32 and the C-32 extension will have no environmental impacts... And I've always said it, that's to say, in the end, we're also talking about what model of infrastructure we're talking about, and obviously we're talking about mobility, but in this case, we're talking about private mobility with effects on pollution and climate change, and it's hard to explain that it doesn't have a relationship, in this case, with urban development, or at least, as at least, the SOS Costa Brava platform doesn't understand it, right? In this case of this Costa Brava tram, right? Look, I, too, one of the things I wanted to raise... because we were talking about environmental conflicts and we were talking about territorial conflicts, but this morning we were talking and we were talking about the climate change, right? I know that obviously energy competitions are not part of your department, but I've always told you this was a bad idea. I believe that, moreover, if we really want to move forward in a new model of energy transition and obviously want a development of renewable energies in Catalonia, there must be, in this case, a leadership of the Government of the Generality. We understand that it is not, that is to say, probably the great challenge that Catalonia has, and not only Catalonia but the Spanish State and the European Union, and I would say at international level, it is the struggle against climate change, and I think that Catalonia is obviously not doing our dues. And, therefore, I would also like to know what his opinion is. Because, beyond the laws... I think I've told you many times that it's very..., or it's more complicated to argue with you because it's probably... about the speech, even when you were talking to me about the sustainable winter Olympic games. I think, well, it's a contradiction for me; we'll study the project with detention, but I think there's a contradiction in those terms. But it is more difficult to debate with you because, many times, we believe in the same terms, but then we can go to concrete politics and we can go to concrete facts. And, for example, this morning we had him... – and I would also like to know his opinion – is: we are a long way, in this case, as in the country, to overcome the challenges that we have marked ourselves in the generation of renewable energies in Catalonia. Neither the year 2020 nor the year 2030, which we would have to get to 50 percent of renewable energy production, is there, and this will have a brutal impact on climate change and pollution in Catalonia. And, therefore, beyond saying that we have made the Climate Change Law, that I obviously do not deny it, and, moreover, we have participated, and we have given support, but we would like to say: what is it that you think you are doing, your government? Or do we, beyond finding out, and all of us, notice that we will not get to the goal that we have set ourselves in this case, right? For the fight against climate change, what do we think of doing as a country, and what do we think of doing as a society? Because in the end, too, when I often claim it – or we claim it – from our parliamentary group, from Catalonia to Comú Pode, we claim it leadership, we want to say that. We find that there are many times in the case of the Government a voice that places this alert, that places these issues on the agenda, that places not only relations at the level of the Administration; if I do not deny the participation of the Generality in spaces, congresses, but in the concrete policy, in this case of the Generality, we do find that leadership missing. And in any case, we are calling for it, and we are calling for it in particular for climate change in a context that at European level – and also in Catalonia, and also in the rest of the Spanish State – there are mobilizations, mobilizations led, in this case, by students and students who call each Fridays for Future, and, moreover, they are also calling for Climate Strike on March 15, at international level. So, I think this can end us... Sometimes I get the feeling that we're anticipating environmental conflicts, and then you end up a little bit, don't you? , to thrusts and rollers, trying to give it an answer. I believe that in this particular issue we have a problem and that it connects with one of the things that we have also raised, that it is one, not the only one, but it is one of the elements that has a very important impact in this case on one of the things that we have raised, that it is the delta of the Ebra and the affectation, well, of one of the great areas of environmental preservation that we have in Catalonia that we should see what response we give to it, in the current context and in the context in which we are living from climate change, from salinity and also from the lack of arrival of sediments. Therefore, some burdens, a lot of work; we will put proposals to the motions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.196.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. And finally, for the final reply, the counselor has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.197.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Member, Councillors, Members and Members, I recognize your group's interest in environmental matters, as in other matters, in fact, especially in environmental matters; from this we have not spoken and I on many occasions and therefore listen to it with a lot of interest and with the hope of being able to gather everything that we believe can help to resolve precisely these differences. Jo, about the discrepancies, was talking about it in a more theoretical way, huh? Indeed, with more environmental awareness there are such discrepancies as the concept and, indeed, the discrepancies we have to resolve in the way we know, that it is debateable and government-driven. And I am absolutely certain that the Government of the Generality is on the side of the territory, always – always, always – listening and resolving. And he reiterated some of the issues that he asked me, too, in the first part of his intervention, in any case to answer again a little, not too much, because I will actually wait, therefore, for the subsequent motion. On the subject of Olympic games, again, I believe that what gives us little that we accept this challenge is that we can introduce all these sustainability criteria. But it's that, besides, we don't just believe it ourselves, it's also believed in the Barcelona Assembly. Yes man, the Barcelona Assembly is at the table working, together with the Government of the Generality and with the whole territory, to achieve, therefore, a competitive bid. And, therefore, if the Barcelona Assembly is and believes that we can present this competitive candidacy, for something to be, it does not have to be just because its name comes in one candidacy, it has to be because, effectively, you see this as an opportunity to promote the same city of Barcelona and the whole territory of Catalonia. And I'm sure with the environmental sensitivity that is also supposed to have the Barcelona Assembly, in which the group that you represent governs, I'm sure – I'm sure – that the environmental concept will be there. Reiterating from the C-32, that we believe that, indeed, it is a good project, from a point of view of mobility, and that it incorporates, effectively, all the concepts of sustainability that were asked when precisely we had to face the environmental impact and the project itself again. They're related, but I won't be there. There's a whole set of configurations of the same infrastructure that makes them incorporate these sustainability elements. The Delta, he was talking about the Delta. From the Delta, what happens is that for many years a lot of studies have been done and everyone has studied: the assemblies have studied; the Government of the Government from one department or another has studied; the Government of the State has studied. I would say that the Delta is one of the most studied reasons in the country, but the result is that it knows very well what is going on and that the actual rate of the Delta's regression is alarming. There aren't many sureties, are there? Despite the studies, what could be done and what could not be done; there are not many, unfortunately, eh? , – there are not many. But indeed, one of the problems we have about this effect of the Delta's regression is governance over this area and the actions that can be taken. We can talk from the point of view of natural management, of natural environment, of climate change, of maritime action, of the State, of the Generality, and this does not make things easier. We have gone to the Ebre Delta on more than one occasion to claim that there is a clear dialogue, a plan of action that is almost the only one of what we need to do. We need to act as soon as there is a technical consensus; for example, the guards in the interior of the baths, this is a topic in which there is a technical consensus; as far as we can afford time, which is also very important; the public procurement, for example, of the most exposed lands; the application of measures, we could say pilot proof, pilot proof, land retention and defence. Here where there is technical consensus we have to do it. And don't forget the foundation of the issue, which is the sediment input. And in this background of the issue, sediment input, we actually need to talk to the State and the Ebre Hydrographic Confederation. On the subject of energy transition. Well, it's an object we have with the country: 2030-2050; 50_per_cent, 100_per_cent. I think we're working in the right direction. We, from the environmental and urban point of view, are working to simplify, giving a clear full route to any initiative in the territory that tended to create wind or photovoltaic parks. Make it easier, from the point of view of management and from the point of view of climate change, we have even a strategy of adaptation to the climate change that passes because the Generality and the joints do everything that allows us to fight against the climate change. We do it every day. I explained yesterday the dilluns... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] If you'll let me finish..., explained Ferrocarrils' strategy respects the energy input to move trains and, precisely, this is one of the points in which, concretely, and with examples from the same Generality, so we fight against the climate change from the energy transition point of view.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.198.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on industrial policy]] [[300-00090/12]] Having exhausted this point, we turn to the following point, which, according to the order that has been communicated, would be the question to the Government on industrial policy, formulated by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance and to expose it has the word of Congresswoman Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.199.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselor, counselors, deputies and deputies. Well, the Socialists and Forward Units Group is asking the government to know what is the situation of the industry or, in any case, the government's understanding of the industry. You know, and if I don't remember, that my group called for the appearance of the Director General of Industry, July of the year passed, precisely when he made one year of the approval of the National Pact for Industry, because in giving account and making a valuation, in one year of his approval, of how the Pact was working. I have to say – and I know it hard – that a few months later she has not been able to compare the Director General of Industry and, therefore, we do not have a value done with details, with rigor on which is this assessment that is made of the pact. And that is to say that this pact was the result of a resolution by Parliament, precisely 251/XI, of 13 July 2016. It is to say, that here it is true that the parliamentary groups were very insistent with the government because they pushed this pact, which was finally pushed and approved on July 2017. We really would have liked the government, on its own initiative, to come to the Commission of Enterprise to make a valuation of the pact and if not, at least, in the plenary of the own pact, where there were social and economic agents, universities, scientific institutions, Eurecat, to make a certain valuation at one year or, at these times, at one and a half years of approval of that pact, right? I think it would be good to know what actions have been developed, what resources have been allocated during 2017 and 2018 is over, what has been carried out, what assumptions have been made... We believe that it is not only a wish to know, but also a responsibility to know at what time we are here. The pact ends in 2020, that is to say that there is only a short time left, a year and a lack of life, and it is also to say that the total assumption that the pact had was 1,800_million euros; obviously, not only in the department of Constellera Chacón, but in the whole government. Obviously, there are many cross-cutting actions; in industrial policy, it is very important to lay down the conditions for things to happen, and, therefore, here... from infrastructure to training, going through the same industry, to energy. I mean, a lot of circles, obviously, that affect... and that's what we're aware of. But it is also true that the pact was approved on July 2017, the presumption had already been approved, 2018 there is a presuppositional prorogation, at this time 2019 the executive council has not approved any presuppositions, they have not registered with Parliament, and therefore we would like to know at these times how it is, say, presuppositional assessment for what it does to the National Pact for Industry. They're already a couple of years in operation and for now without any presupposition approved. And we want to know if this is actually being completed so important to see, so, if the actions are developing as they would. And we say so, Counselor, because we've analyzed a little, without going into much detail, because they didn't register them in Parliament, but the assumptions that they did go to the generality's website, and a voicing, analizing, right? , some data, such as the strictly low industry assumption in relation to 2017, for example, no? In 2017 the supply proposal in the field of industry was EUR 52 million and at this time the proposal that is ugly was 47. Home, bearing in mind that we have a pact that goes up to 1,800_million euros, it does not seem most reasonable to reduce the pressure in industry, does it not? We could say: "Well, maybe there are other games that are growing. Neither is mass. For example, to put one that doesn't have to see with the company, right? : the order and promotion of the soil and industrial buildings low from 82_million euros to 74, for example, and industrial polygons are very important in an industrial strategy, and then I will talk about it with more detail. Or, for example, energy, energy parties, going from 7.7 to 8.8 million euros. Nor does it seem that if we are to make a strategy on renewable energies linked to the climate change, then this is a very ambitious assumption and is really worth facing the challenges that we face and that the same national pact was talking about. Therefore, we would like to know what his will is so as to complete—comply—with what we committed ourselves to in the pact. Perhaps there was a mistake in the pact, which is when it was signed..., and we didn't sign it, say, parliamentary groups, but when they signed with social and economic agents there were no annual economic indicators; it was about the 2017 xifra, and 2020, it came to an end. So, we don't know how much to put or how much to put each year, and we think that this is an information that we should give ourselves to have the certainty that is being fulfilled and that we can make a good appreciation. I think we need to talk about the importance of the industrial sector. I think we're all aware. It's the sector that exports the most; it's the sector that generates the most quality jobs, the most destabilized, the most well-paid jobs; it's the sector that invests the most in research and research, the most innovative, the most technological advances it incorporates into its productivity. Industry is therefore a sector to be preserved. I believe that this is why the National Pact for Industry has appeared, that it will often advise it as an example, and therefore, we believe that this pact must be preserved and we must take good care of it because it really completed the functions for which it was signed. But the same national pact also spoke, beyond actions, resources and indicators, also from a few folds, didn't it? And I will almost read it literally, because he said: "To reverse the loss of people that industry has experienced in the past years, therefore, it is necessary to face a succession of setbacks in the camps... – and he speaks of many – "of the capitalization of enterprises and their size, quality occupation, research and innovation, internationalization, infrastructure, education and energy efficiency, sustainability and the circular economy. You're saying you've planted a few reptes. Our feeling is that, beyond the actions there are, that we will see if they are actually being carried out as they stand and there are the presuppositional parties because actually this advance, we believe that there is no valiant strategy in some of these camps. In any case, I must also say that the European Union is on this line. I think we were going to comment on it the other day, too. The European Union presented the May 2018, of the past year, a European strategy Horizon 2027, which is already the second phase of Horizon we know so far; it is the most economical program ever presented by the European Union, precisely to enhance the transfer of knowledge to the economic fabric, thus innovation, and in this sense the industry here has a very important role to play. And we would like to know, taking into account the opportunities that Catalonia has, that it has universities and research centers and a powerful economic and industrial fabric, so, as we can be, say, leaders or leaders in demand, in the petition for projects of this Horizon 2027. We think we should be working on this line. It is true that the other day in the motion that was approved unanimously in this Parliament we have already laid some foundations, for example, with some changes that we probably need to set up at the Eurecat Technical Centre, and that I have already thanked the Councillor, but I would like to know whether from her department they are already working on new lines or we are planning for this Horizon 2027, which will be able to present..., or that will be open from the coming year. For us, it is important that we start, say, to put some attention to these European projects as well, from where, as we say, more than 100,000_million euros, which are a lot of resources, come for the regions that innovate in Europe. About the sectors... we could talk about a lot of things to industry. We'd like to focus my group on three elements, and it won't give me time to finish, and so after the reply I'd like to say, right? Energy circular economy. I think there's plenty to say, too, but one of the highest costs to industry is energy costs. And in this sense, it seems to us that Catalonia is advancing very little. It's true that we approved the Climate Change Law a year ago, but finally, Congressman Terrades, who is following it a lot, tells me that the warmest, the watery, and that we haven't moved on. In renewable energies there are other Spanish rights that have done much more than us, having, say, more unfavourable climate elements, right? Here, therefore, neither solar nor wind energy is one of the lines that we are empowering to make energy cheaper than really can have an impact on the economic fabric. But we're not betting on other types of distribution or energy creation, are we? On the subject of industrial polygons, and cities, huh? , that they are betting, therefore, for the shared self-consumption through the generation of these renewable energies that is generating a significant cost reduction is not an impulse that the Government is doing ; things are being done very punctually, many times driven by the joints, but not by the Generality. And this is a very key element for us; it's to say, what is the bet we actually make for renewables in Catalonia taking into account that we have elements to work with. The other day, which I visited the Jew, and with Mr. Terrades we also talked some times, and now we say, "Don't..., or we don't have to shut down nuclear, what we have to do is to convert them and see if we can generate hydrogen in those nuclears that you serve us because of this net energy, so help us, right? , to generate a new..., or new jobs, new economic fabric, for example for the car or for other practices. So, what kind of strategy is the generality doing? We already understand that many strategies have to come from the world of business, but penetrating is also one of the functions of governments. And, therefore, in this sense, we would like to say that beyond this value of the pact, as well as [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] are working some strategic elements of the industry sector because it can...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.200.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.201.0	...to be competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.202.0	Thank you. To answer, the word "Constellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, is written.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.203.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, MPs, MPs... Congresswoman, she's touched on so many issues that, well, we could be talking all the time about industry in Catalonia, and well, there would be a lot of issues to address. What I can say from the department is that of the National Pact for Industry, of which if they don't have..., which I think they have, but we can get them there, the evaluation indicators of the year 2017, in conjunction is a 75_per_cent of both presuppostarial and action accomplishment. And this value must be taken into account considering that there was the application of Article 155; therefore, there were no councils. So we believe that, despite everything, 75 per cent of completion is true. With regard to the compliment of the year 2018, it is likely, in a very short time, that we present it to the Conseil Català de l'Empresa. We understand that it is they to whom we first have to give accounts – in these own days it will – because it is the social agents who, I repeat, are taxing the question of the pact through the Catalan Council of the Enterprise. He talked about what the situation is, who the business is in Catalonia. We understand these industrial policies as a full route, a full route that must allow us to take on these challenges of the future, and that already from one year to the other varies. We see the transformation of product models, we see the integration of exponential technological changes into business strategies, or we also see how we adapt professional profiles to this new context, because we understand that there is an economic but also social transformation derived from industry 4.0. And in this context that places us in a scene of change of models, it is in the exercise of public-private collaboration– you thought, it is the enterprises that generate occupation, that generate wealth–, it is in the framework of this public-private collaboration that the Government of Catalonia, this department, wants to accompany the business ecosystem so that it can position itself in this new context, and we do so in a holistic way, also incorporating the entrepreneurial and innovative ecosystem. Despite this, we are still only – in doing two brushes – aware of who are the risks that parallelly we will have to address, and who are from this past year. One, the increase in protectionism that comes from policies on the part of the United States and the trade war with China, begins to affect us in international trade issues. Also the global financial risks, especially the increase in the debt of emerging countries. Also the deceleration of the euro area, taking into account the slowdown of this economy, feels like one of our main export markets. And also, obviously, the Brexit or the oil price rise. These are reptiles we haven't had in two years. But, on a subject like Brexit..., that's why we also believe this office to look after businesses that may be harmed, so this exit from the European Union by Britain. One time we are – I have done so very quickly – in this new global context, from the Government of Catalonia, we are once and for all committed to the development of the productive, innovative, inclusive, sustainable and open economy in the world, and yes, we are also "open to the world, because each of the forty offices that Action has distributed to the world, through Catalonia Trade & Investment, some of them now Catalonia Exponential, are also industrial policy; they are helping our companies not only to internationalize but to come into contact with these innovative ecosystems that have come from the world. What's the current situation? We have about 620,000 companies, and with this solid industrial base... We think that Catalonia has a 21.4_percent of gross domestic product of industrial base, alt, alt, if we compare it to others of our environment; it makes a relatively positive development, we could say that positive, that it starts since 2014: it increases GDP by the year 2018, the industrial investment also increases, the industrial occupation also increases and the growth taxes of Catalonia for which it does to the industry are maintained over the European media and the Spanish State. Catalan exports also have a record of this past year, reaching €71,600_million, and we are leading exports to the Spanish state, with 25_percent of them; we are also leading the number of exporting companies, and we are also assigning the qualitative production of some specialties. Catalonia is therefore relatively well positioned. There are structural elements that help us to do this. And that doesn't fall from one day to the next; that's the consequence of the policies that have been sustained by this government and this department. This solid industrial base, as I said, this 21_percent industrial GDP, has now made it possible for us to have elements to help us compete in this new 4.0 industry. We have a strong ICT sector, with more than 15,077 businesses, more than 115,000 workers. There are also elements like the startup hub we have, with these 1,300 start-ups. We have more than 360 companies offering products specialising in industry 4.0. And we also have a whole series of entrepreneurs who have developed their expertise in the new technologies in this fourth industrial revolution: 3D printing, Internet of Things. We also have research technology centres and infrastructure that are qualitatively different. We also have a dynamic job market; the last few figures for what it does to the occupation in Catalonia are an exhibition. Therefore, placed in a global context, placed in local context as well as in positioning, I repeat, on the concrete indicators for the compliment, for which it does to the compliment of the National Pact for the industry in giving account in proprioment to the Conseil Català de l'Empresa, and we have no inconvenience, years contrary, in sharing these results with all the political parties. We understand, as I said, that this new context is generating us to adapt faster than ever to this change. In parallel with the implementation of the pact, we will have to adapt to the management of the change. First place, how do we do it? How are we doing? So from the consensus. Hence the pacts – the National Pact for Industry, the National Pact for Energy Transition and the National Pact for the Knowledge Society. The strategies and pacts of this consensus, of this holistic vision, which we also understand are translated into very concrete actions. He talked about energy, he talked about multiple variants of the implementation of the pact. I repeat, we can give you, therefore, exhaustive documentation of each of them. But down to concrete aspects, then, what are we doing? For example, the impulse of the Catalonia Tech Hub program, right? for the development of research and innovation projects and for the transformation of our industry. Also Industry 4.0 program and new technologies; focusing on research support instruments, development and innovation for Industry 4.0. The Nuclis program, the Innotec, the internationalization, also in the capture of investments– a 20_per_cent of the investments are already coming from the External Offices of Action. Also for what he does to attraction and recollection, he participated in technological threads; sensitisation; formation. We are also working in format packages, in acceleration tracks, to meet this demand for companies. And a very important element that wasn't in the pact, and it's territory. We have integrated and will also have to apply these industrial policies in the territory. This is a vector that, therefore, was not contemplated in the pact and that we also want to promote. You were asking me for a presuppositional execution of each party. He also knows that the year 2017 did have some matches fixed in each of the apartments, but it was still widely distributed: 2018, 2019, 2020. We understand that, obviously, the fact that we do not have assumptions, we assume, limits us presuppositively – it is true, it is a fact – but I think we will have to wait for which are the indicators of the assessment of compliments – for example, some of them, in this 2018 – to see how we are actually implementing this National Pact for Industry. Then, at the reply, we will also make some of the questions that I raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.204.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply you have the new paragraph for the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.205.0	Well, thank you, Counselor. In any case, it is true that the industry has a very broad sense and it is difficult sometimes to give concrete expression to it, but I know what I asked for: that what we would like is an assessment of the pact and of each of its actions, its assumptions, its indicators. You say they have a document now, but we would like it, because the Parliament also asked to approve that resolution, which came to compare you or the Director General of Industry, in order to be able to make an open debate about who is this execution of the pact. It's just that it's very important. And we wouldn't want to have the perception that there's no honest bet. Because 2017 there were one hundred_seventeen performances, 468_million euros of pressupost. We could imagine that he was the one who had already posed himself that he had done it all the time. Obviously, to reach 1,800, there has to be a clear bet. Or, if a country doesn't have a powerful industry, it doesn't have a future. And, therefore, here we have to see how it bets. I don't know if I've told you in this House some other time, but... to put a case, and I don't want to model, but it's true that when President Macron came to the presidency of France he made a strategic bet for artificial intelligence and put 5,000_million euros in the premise. To say that one thing is important for you to mean to ask for resources, no: "Well, we'll do..., we'll say... No, listen'm, resources. And so what we want to know is exactly what actions, what resources have been put in place, what implementation has been made of each of these proposals, isn't it? And I hope that 2017 and 2018, therefore, this can be explained to us in Parliament; also in the Catalan Business Council, obviously. About some sectors I was talking about, because obviously there are a lot of them and they don't give us time in this inquiry... I wanted to talk about the circular economy and energy. I think this is a big issue, where we're not devoting the necessary effort, and I think this is a train that we'll end up losing, and I think we can't afford it. And, therefore, it would be good to know exactly what strategy you have in this sense. The automotive sector. The automotive sector, in which we are leaders in Spain and is a very powerful, very important sector in Catalonia... In fact, the year 2016 we created a commission on the future of the automotive sector, which was very interesting and which led to some conclusions that I don't really know if they are coming to an end on behalf of the government. But in these moments the automotive sector is in full transformation, with the electric car, the hydrogen as a possibility also to use a net energy to run... And I think that, beyond what companies do or decide, the government should also be engaged in a major sector for Catalonia. If the loser, it would be a brutal catastrophe. So we can't just let businesses make decisions; we also have to set conditions for things to happen. In fact, companies take many decisions to settle in a territory depending on what they are offering. And, therefore, we believe that... for example, if we have nuclear power that can be transformed and produced hydrogen, if we make a bet for electricity too... listen, just yesterday there was a match against Ajax, right? Looks like it. So do you know that this camp in Ajax uses 280 cars in the second place to light up the whole camp? It's just that there's a lot of them, the applications of electric drums. Therefore, we believe that this is an area in which Catalonia, from the government, should be able to take the lead in trying to help transform a sector that is very important to us. And the next... the automotive sector, I think it was a few days ago that the state government put forward a proposal on this line, didn't it? And I think we should also be willing to do it and lead it. And the other is artificial intelligence. Miri, I don't know if they read yesterday's against La Vanguardia. A Catalan entrepreneur, the Mar Ruiz, came out twenty-three years ago to go to Silicon Valley and is dedicated, therefore, to investing in basically bytech enterprises, but of all kinds, and she said that the revolution of artificial intelligence will be much greater than technology, that it will be the new space race and that it will be so important that if this train loses it, we will never recover. Why, while internet allows you to communicate, artificial intelligence and will allow you to make decisions in medicine, banking, mobility... And I'd like to know what strategy we have. Because I know – and I knew by chance – that there is a working group on artificial intelligence to the government. But I wouldn't like you to have a working group: I'd like you to have a strategy; and, along with that strategy, resources to keep this train from losing. Therefore, the industry has many challenges, but there are some that cannot be allowed to escape. And, therefore, he will ask, he will advise, that beyond his commitment to make an assessment of the pact in a committee, to the Commission of Enterprise and Knowledge, also in explaining which are those stakes in these three areas that I am commenting on, which are important. There are no others, but it seems to me that they are leaders, taking into account the times when we find ourselves, when, as you said, the economy seems to be slowing down and, therefore, the roles of administrations and governments are even more important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.206.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, again, it's going back to the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.207.0	Thank you, President. Member, there is no problem: one time we have presented, therefore, the conclusions of the implementation of the pact of 2018 to the Catalan Council of the Enterprise, I commit myself, the Director General of Industry, or any of the two, to account for whose execution this has been. You understand that we don't detail them here, because they're more than 166 performances that have been repeated every year. I, as I said before, of 2017 we do have the figures: 75_percent of presuppostari compliment i 74_percent of compliments of the performances. You know that this pact is very cross-cutting, because it does... for example, I can tell you that there is a 100_per_cent compliment, both assumptions and actions. So, therefore, the compromise to give explanations..., no one. Plus, we'll get them the paperwork, too. Also very important are, apart from the presuppositional execution, the reports that emerged from the pact: one of them, the past year, was "The labor impact of Industry 4.0; this year we talk about issues... It was also about the business dimension, huh? We're talking about issues such as the fact that these new professions are asking us for the circular economy, and we're asking for professional profiles. It speaks of a sector in concrete terms that is the automotive sector, that we no longer need to talk about the automotive sector, we need to talk about the mobility industry, and it speaks of what strategy we follow. So, look, with companies like SEAT and Nissan we're working a lot. In fact, I believe that if SEAT, in the framework of the Mobile World Congress, presented its new corporate strategy for mobility, and presented it to Barcelona, and presented its bets, it is because..., you said: « What can we offer it? So I said before: this ecosystem of start-ups, said for its president, is essential, it is basic because it decides to implement this centre of excellence here. He spoke of more than a hundred professionals who would devote themselves, therefore, to the study of mobility, this new solution, this new mobility industry. And obviously with Nissan, the other great manufacturer we have in the sector here in Catalonia, we are working together so as to adapt to these challenges that we have to face in itself and we work continuously, as with your business committee. He was also talking to us about the Ajax. Well, the Barça camp, then, was also the first camp in the world to be in 5G, connected to 5G, where I could see... exactly. But, I mean, we're also pioneers – we're also pioneers – both in the automotive sector and in the football stadium. And, I repeat, this is... and I don't fall for one day for another: it's also for the implementation of the strategies we have to foster start-ups and this disruptive new economy. I think the results come precisely... now we're getting more than ever, we're managing more than ever projects, from the department, foreign investment linked to the centres of excellence, some of them from artificial intelligence. We would also be delighted to explain what strategy is followed in themes of artificial intelligence of Action. And, obviously, all this has been done since – I didn't mention it, because, as I say, there are so many... – cluster politics. We are dealing with each of the clusters, each of the sectors, with the transversals, which are the nine start-ups, and also, therefore, the sector's remodelling: before the automotive industry becomes the mobility industry, and so many other examples. It was before all this we intend to do, too, to lock up the territory there. What is the competitive expertise, in which territories are qualitatively differentiated: this is a very important element for me. If we don't integrate territorial diversity, we won't be growing our country's industry either. And obviously, taking into account, therefore, what is higher education and university. And we combine regulatory activity, because one thing is strategy, the other is action, but the mark that we have given ourselves, beyond the pacts, has to be made. And to establish these milestones we have also undertaken – and we are already working on it, we are practically working out – to the law of emerging entrepreneurs, technologies and disruption, to the law of science and to the law of energy transition, because we pass from the pacts, which are a more abstract gypsum, to concrete regulation. Therefore, the adaptation of the Catalan industry to this new industrial revolution is – it is not thought: it is – a priority to gain efficiency, sustainability, new talent and maintain the industrial leadership that our country currently has, Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.208.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Inquiries to the Government on Housing]] [[300-00091/12]] Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day, which is the eighth, which is the question to the government about housing. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the inquiry was made by the deputy Antoni Morral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.209.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies, deputies, councillor Calvet..., we will again talk about housing, councillor. In this legislature, it is not the first time that we have spoken about housing, and, if we are going back, surely, to more than this legislature, the housing has been very intensely present in the political debate, therefore, of this chamber. Because housing is a right for everyone, a recognized right, so, even in the Spanish Constitution, in its article 47, and therefore a duty of administration and society. Many years have passed since the 77's, many governments of all colors, and the right to decent housing for everyone is still a pending assignment. Today is no longer a topic, today the right to housing is an urgency and also an emergence, and man is asking why this is happening. The conquest of the right to habitat as a universal right for everyone, surely, directly rivals the logic of the free market, and what this causes, which is speculation. In view of this situation, agreements, agreements of those that call for agreements of state, between institutions, ambitious agreements, political pacts that I committed institutions, social agents, economic sectors, and provide them with resources are called for. Resources for solo acquisition, for public investment. Therefore, this is a very central issue that makes public policies in the country. Counselor, we are aware of the effort that the department makes in housing policy. We're also aware that we're here, what's happened these past few years. In 2007, the economic crisis gripped us with the fact that all the forecasts there were at those scheduled times, so they could not be completed. We're in a... there wasn't enough protected habitat. Creaxia the demand for suitable housing. A lot of people were expelled from what was access to housing in the free market. We didn't have a system of help enough to cope with the challenges and needs that existed. At the same time, the social cohesion of the people and society was in danger. Some data respect this situation. In fact, in 2006 there were 127,000 habitats that were started, and in 2013, a few years later, 3,036, only. In 2018, there were 14,517 initialized habitats. This davalada occurred at a time when it was accompanied, too, by an important increase of what the denunciations are. In 2008, the registered denunciation was 3,926. In 2014, just a few years later, registered charges were 15,806. I mean, it's quadrupled. I, at present, 2018 has been 13,941 denominations. In this way, the demand for sheltered housing in a growing, exponential form is increasing. In fact, in 2015, 40,000 applications for protected habitat have been submitted. And we moved on to 127,744 this year's fever. These data have led to the department's promotion of a policy, let's say, which is important for increasing the social housing stock, investing in the maintenance of the housing stock, fighting against denunciations, facilitating access to housing on sound terms. All this from Law 24/2015, urgent measures to address the emergence in the field of housing and energy poverty, and also through Law 4/2016, measures to protect the right to housing and persons at risk of residential exclusion. On the other hand, other measures, such as the months of emergence that have been created in the different municipalities, aid for the payment of loggers or mortgages, the implementation of mediation programs, the cessation of reversal; the design of tools to give guarantees to the owners and enhance the loggers; the loggers; the design and implementation of strategies for sensing. Well, other initiatives. There has certainly been an effort. From the year 2012 until 2018, 27.377 denominations were directly avoided. In Catalonia, the year 2012, there were 17,000 payments for the payment of the logger, for 44_million euros. This amount tripled in 2018, with an import of more than €133 million, so that it can reach 73,000 aid in different ways. In the combination of social housing programs, it went from a €50_million endowment, in 2012, to almost €138_million in the 2018 fiscal year. This, counselor, represents an increment of 176_per_cent, only in seven years. The signature, also, of cessation agreements with funded entities has allowed commitments to be made with the temporary cessation of 4,300 habitats. The financing lines have been provided with 140_million euros to help promote our protected habitats by public and private promoters, and the acquisition of voracious 2,000 habitats carried out by the Generality. The 340 habitats acquired by the municipalities and social entities, in these, only, also, three and a half years. Also, the funding line of the Catalan Institute of Finance, equipped with 110_million to help the municipalities and entities to expand the social housing park, with right to storm and retreat. The contribution, also, of Incasòl, that has added to the ordinary assumption, of 30_millions in 2018, and of 20_millions in 2019, that has also assumed an increment of 50_millions of euros. And also the 60/40 programs, this instrument for which the Generality assumes 60_per_cent for the part of the logger that cannot take over the affected family, and the addition is about the rest of 40_per_cent. Is that it, Counselor? With this initiative of cooperation between administrations, Barcelona, with a contribution of 4_million euros from the Generalitat, will capture 350 habitats in the next four years. Also, the maintenance of the tax on empty habitats so as to allocate the entrances to habitat policies. The tickets obtained from the year 2017 were 18_million, and the 2018 tickets are 12_million euros. Also, the logger mediation network advanced 2018 with 8,371 habitats promoted from the current contract. I mean, counselor, he's made an effort, he's made an effort. We recognize from our parliamentary group that, despite the limited resources, the department is making an important effort, but we would like to be informed today also of the decree approved by the Government, so it seems to me, with yesterday's date, as it fits, let us say, the content of this decree for which it makes the programme to promote protected habitat or to lodge with our country. As I said to the principle, housing policies, today, it is no longer an issue, it is an urgency, and it is also an emergence, and therefore a priority on our part..., we consider it to be one of the priorities, or one of the important priorities on the part of the Government of the Generality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.210.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.211.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, counsel, honourable Member, honourable Members, honourable Members, indeed, housing, and everything that makes reference to housing policies has to be, I say, one of the central policies of all public administration. It has to be. Therefore, it is, of the Generality, and it is also of the municipalities, of the municipalities of our country, of the majority of municipalities of our country. What happens is that this housing policy, central essence, has historically been massively linked to the environment, to the economic environment, will finance, to the market, and we must tend that, each time more, these housing policies remain not so much conjunctural as structural. And, therefore, we make an effort, from the Department of Territories, because they are structural. An effort that sometimes doesn't feel right. We try to do a lot of pedagogy to explain that the Department of Territories, which is a department that people imagine as chapter 6, investments, infrastructure, also forms part of the departments of the Government of the Generality that develop social policies. Sometimes, when we talk about social policies, people then imagine themes of teaching and health, themes of social welfare, but we always try to add, to this list of social policies, like at least, two of the themes we carry in our department; one is public transport and the other is housing, which forms part, intrinsically, of the entanglement of social policies of our country, of our competitions. And, speaking of competitions, housing, in principle, is an exclusive competence of the Government of the Generality. That's what the state of autonomy says. They are an exclusive competence, what passes is that we cannot develop it fully, because they compete with other standards, of sometimes state norms, with reference, for example, to the duration of the contracts of lloger, through the LAU, or the costs of expropriation, through the Law of expropriations, or the Law of the soil. And, above all, what we need is to be able to develop it fully with sufficient resources. Because, if we have exclusive competence, what we don't have is the money that we need to develop these policies. For many years, the main economic endowment to housing policies by the Government of the State has been the deterioration of the purchase, only. The 90_percent of what the State was devoting to housing policies was the down payment. From the rest, there was 'a division to the autonomous communities, among which, for now, we count, that they let us do what we can, eh? , and I think we have prioritized much of the work that has been done by the departments, historically, by the OCTs, the Environment and Habitat, or now by the Territories and Sustainability. Although everything – although everything – could have added to the assumption on the part of the Government of the Generality. Well, as there were, too, other priorities, among others, those that correspond to the payment of health or education policies or other policies, we always have the feeling that we have remained short with amounts of money that we have been able to devote to housing policies. I always say, there's not enough, there's not enough with everything we do. And, therefore, of these premises of exclusive competence, but not of possibilities of total formal development, and of the centrality of these policies, of making them each time more structural, is of these two optical ones that base our approach to the policies of habitating. And, indeed, we have basic legislation, on 18/2007, which marks a whole set of measures that were not able to develop in its totality because, precisely, when we had this housing law it was when the crisis began, and therefore we found ourselves without the park that we had foreseen, without the measures of attention to the emergence that we had predicted. After that, we were a substitute, with Decree 1/15, which allowed us to enter by storm and retract, with 24/15, on which we had an appeal from the Government of the People's Party, to the Constitutional, and which did not allow us to fully develop it until now – which I will now refer to – until we approved the decree in the Government, or 4/16, or whatever it refers to the empty habitat taxes, which you referred to earlier. So, we've been doing it, but, I insist, there's not enough. And it is from this optical, also, that we have wanted to take a step further in the actions and policies in the field of housing, to find these tools, and with this will we have developed, or are developing..., one we have approved, we have to validate it here in Parliament, the other we are developing, two instruments; two ambitious instruments of very broad abst, which are: the decree law of urgent measures, which was approved yesterday by the Government and which has to validate this chamber in the term not exceeding one_mes, and the sectoral territorial plan of housing. We decided to do so because we believe that there is an urgent need to adopt a standard instrument with a legal status that will restore this situation of difficulty of access, and above all access to a suitable housing for the people, the need to strengthen, redefine, expand ordinary instruments that offer the legislation on housing and, very important, urbanism, also urbanism, the basis of the housing policies that we want to develop. We intend to increase the general offer of housing for moderates, we intend to increase the lloger park, in general, lloger park – whether in official protection or free – we intend to facilitate access to the population with insufficient economic resources. We therefore have three great objectives, with this decree which we approved yesterday. First, to increase the number of llogers; secondly, to equip us with more and better instruments to combat emergencies and denouncements; and, thirdly, to moderate the price of free habitats, whether directly or indirectly; with direct limitations or with indirect limitations. Direct limitations exist. A direct limitation, for example, is that in all urban development we set a minimum percentage of reserve for official protection. This is a direct limitation to the free market. Or fixing the prices of the dwellings with official protection. This is a direct limitation. Indirect limitations may be of many natures, but in any case, they are always an intervention on the free market. What is an indirect limitation? For example, the duration of lloger contracts. That we have reduced it to three years, that we have cursed because this, therefore, increased, and that, finally, the Government of the State approved the divender passed this royal decree that increases it to five or seven years, differentiating physical persons from legal persons. This is yet to be validated at the Congress of Deputies, but in any case, we too have been waiting for one or the other, the Government of the State or the Generality, in one way or another, to increase this minimum time of the contracts to lodge. We, from the outset, give for good the royal decree, but above all, we seek, through the modification of the libre sisè of the Civil Code – this was presented by the Councillor of Justice of the past–, therefore, to be able to go further there; with dialogue with the sector, obviously, but further there, and to adjust it to the needs of our country. Therefore, by direct limitation or indirect limitation, we are sure to help moderate, too, the prices of free habitats. The decree we passed yesterday counted up to thirty urgent measures, I would like to relate them to five large packages, and perhaps later highlight some if I have time. First, create a new habitat model with official protection, which allows the qualification of these habitats, the famous official protection qualification, to become permanent – become permanent – in all new habitats. We will also establish a transitional regime for those who are in qualifying lives, differentiating whether they come from public parks, or if, therefore, they are already definitive qualifications that have not yet been developed, will clearly maintain the qualifications they had at the time they were presented. However, in any case, we tend not to reduce the number of people or even the number of dwellings in official protection. We don't want to have a park that you qualify for, but for which you lose. We want a park that I tend to increase, and therefore permanent qualification. According to them, and very important, that in the term of two years – we fix a two-year term – the municipalities that have strong and accredited demand – know that we have listed them, from the work done by the Catalan Agency of Habitatge – to put in march – do not let them continue to be built, to put in march – the projects by building habitats on their public soil, that if they develop from the point of view, this, public, therefore they will always have to be logger; that all the habitats – this would be the third point – public in official protection still logger from the beginning. Fourthly, social entities can also benefit from the expropriation of empty habitats. They know that this allowed, or anticipated, Law 24/15, which has been resorted to, that we need to finish developing it, the temporary expropriation by mutual agreement respects the qualifiable logger, or simply expropriation. And we also defined with this decree the cost of this expropriation, which we have minimized to the maximum of what legislation allows us, which is 50_per_cent. Therefore, both the Public Administration and the entities could benefit from these expropriations of empty habitats. And, finally, another of these elements of indirect limitation that helps to regulate the prices of the habitats, which is the use of the reference index: that figure in advertising, that figure in the contracts of the logger, that man can, therefore, refer to so much as to see whether to what is located is ready for the market or not. And link the receipt of any tax subsidy, any help, to the use under this reference index. Therefore, a good measure that we have approved in housing matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.212.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on the protection of children and adolescents at school]] [[300-00093/12]] All right, so let's go to the next question, in this case on the protection of children and adolescents at school, presented by the Parliamentary Group Republic. Question was raised by Mrs Jenn Díaz. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.213.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies... well, violence against minors has many forms, and one of them is institutional silence. Very often the institutional silence takes hold of adultery. In the same way that androcentrism claims that the only valid look follows that of the man, in society, the adults end up seeking a fatherly look and condescending towards our infants and our youth. With the inquiry of this late, counselor, we want to end at least the first evil, the institutional silence. That is why today, since the Parliament, the legislative power and the execution we must unite, we must unite forces in order to be able to break the social and cultural silence of an endemic evil that concerns us. And as we worry and have tools to fight it, prevent and repair, this violence against our infants, we have decided that we pose. If we make a pact of institutional silence, there will be no other one left but to assume that we are accomplices. Our children and our young people are citizens and citizens of the right, and that is why we want to put the center of the debate and make them politically subject. We can't follow them, and we can't ignore the work that teachers and teachers do at our educational centers. Some, we want to give them the space to make them active actors; others, we want to give them all the tools to manage the reality of schools and institutes, that we are aware that it is rather complex and that they should not only be at the center of the debate, of the problem, but we need to help them in everything we can. The same way we can't treat male violence as in other cases, the same way we don't have to have negationist attitudes towards rapes against women, children and young people deserve our social and institutional respect. In the same way that men shield their privileges and make a pact of silence to cover up between them, adults cannot fall into the same parany and silence those rapes that they carry out against our children and our daughters. Carla Valls always talks about male corporatism. So, well, we can't act the same and end up doing adult corporatism. Violence patterns are part of our society, we are aware, just like masculinism, and they have more relation between one idea and the other, between the two concepts, from which we have always seemed a priori. It's impossible that everything we find on the street, on television, on fiction, on the houses doesn't end up reproducing itself in the schools, a space that we could all first consider a safe space. When we talk about rapes in the centers, we don't just talk about rape more explicit, as we usually deal with rapes against minors, against women, no matter; whenever we talk about rape we already imagine the extreme case, the more physical one. But when we talk about violence we also want to talk about bullying, we also want to talk about settlement, we also talk about discrimination on the grounds of sex, sexual orientation or gender identity, we also talk about racism and xenophobia, we also talk about abuses of power and dynamics of authority, and we also talk about rapes between the same, not just adults and minors, rapes between the same or rapes that come all the way from outside the centre. We're also talking about sexual assault, that would be one of the most explicit cases of assault and rape, that maybe media, right? , we make them..., and we make it more visible. And we also want to talk about daily rape clubs that children or young people repeat to school but that are part of their family life. We can't exclude the school from all these inputs that we get every time we're little until we're grown up. We're not just talking about the sexual rape of adults to minors, as I said, which is perhaps the hardest, but that the debate has to be brave and it wants to show that the rape has multiple cares, multiple forms of presentation, in form and modus operandi, and that all have to be approached, whatever the degree of gravity. This morning we read here in Parliament a statement in which we spoke of the victim's secrecy and isolation. If when the victim is an adult and has all the mechanisms in his abst, he ends up silent and silent, in the case of children and young people he is still more accentuated. In the first place, because if the adult who has to protect him is precisely who converts into his attacker, the trap is relentless. This is why, from the institutions, we have to do a job that I intend to transform from the bases, to name the rapes, to recognize them is the least we can do here in Parliament. Secondly, because the formation and sensitisation of infants is a way to seize them just as we've done the women. Sensitization because victims of male violence consider themselves primordial and the model we want for children and young people in our society is exactly the same. If they detect the violence, it's manifest as manifest, we'll have advanced as society. And we need to make sure that the children don't need the validation or the look of the adult to detect the violence. For many students from all over the world, school is a dangerous place, so I turn back the Manifesto of the young ENDviolence, written by a hundred young people of the world and which was presented in the mark of the World Education Forum, celebrated the generation of 2019 in London. A UNICEF-driven initiative in response to such shady data as the alert that half the young people suffer from violence at school. Yesterday at Sense, the Dawn Alfageme gave us a data that also stunned us, although we were already aware, and it is that a 53_percent of women stop making certain activities or going to certain places to suffer a masculistic aggression. Violence patterns and the culture of violence are part of our society. Many women, this 53_per_cent, and many smaller ones, these of what this manifest was talking about, have for, live with and have come to assimilate and naturalize the path and its surroundings does nothing other than contradict them. They can't define us either as women or as minors. And what we want is precisely that the underage don't normalize the violence, that they don't normalize it or do it with the leash. The women, however, and we are living from all walks of life, we are raising the sight and what we need to achieve is that the children also get to have their own eyes and can name the rapes they suffer, because without naming them and detecting them without supervision, we will be condemning them to silence, to a long victimization. That's why I wouldn't want to go deeper into this idea that school is an inhospitable place, because it's not the intention, to come up with this idea, right? That it's not a safe space. But we think that without naming these violins, or making it completely a safe space, we're doing them a little favor. Counselor, you have a very important challenge ahead, and from the Republican Group we would like to know how you will address this issue from the department.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.214.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, the education advisor, Mr. Josep Bargalló. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.215.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs and MPs... welcome MPs, the schools, as you said, are not an alien candy to society. The educational centres are inserted into a society where there are different manifestations of rapes, some rapes that can also enter the centres, in the classrooms. In our own environment, there are situations that directly target infants and adolescents, that take very different forms, from cyberassembly to sexual abuse, and that have as their common denominator violence against minors. It is certainly difficult to associate the image of the school with the concept of violence, because in the vast majority of cases the school is a safe space. We would, however, deceive ourselves, and you said it, honourable Member, if we believe that school is a space of full security. As a society that we have to recognize that zero risk does not exist, neither at school. And that what it takes is to equip us with the necessary tools to prevent rape and minimize its risks. The reality is coughing up and we are seeing more often than not a loss of cases of school attendance, cyber-assetting, sexual abuse, male-based violence, denigration and repression of sexual and gender-based identities, racism; we cannot minimize them. We must be brave; we must end adultery and institutional silence. It may take a step forward and recognize that we find ourselves in front of a problem of first order and that the first step to eradicate it is to recognize its existence. Therefore, please announce that the Department of Education is working on a zero tolerance plan at school to combat any type of violence at school and ensure its coexistence. A plan for the prevention of rapes and the positive management of conflicts. We do not start from scratch, certainly, for a long time now that the Department of Education has developed different protocols that determine how the school has to act before a case of violence and, at the same time, many schools and institutes have developed strategies to prevent and deal with violent conflicts. And the centers are now – or until recently – immersed in the drafting of their own cohabitation plan. And the new plans are about drafting community cohabitation plans. But we do believe that we have a lot of room for improvement in aspects such as reaction time and, in some cases, endurance in reaction. That when it is detected a situation of violence the Administration acts with the maximum immediateness. That's why we want to strengthen the centers and teachers with experts and speed up the processes. And another phonetic aspect, the follow-up of the cases one time is given by locks. What happened to the victim and the attacker if he's younger? We have to give both of them an answer, because both of us are our responsibility. And, further on, when someone has suffered rape needs to be repaired, so we listen and look for a way to repair the damage caused. It's not always easy, but you have to, because listening to victims is essential. This is our compromise and we want to face it face to face with the support of the entities and institutions that work every day with little road. That's why we want to work on rapeseed rape with these entities, to push all folds and add effort. The department's compromise is zero tolerance towards any kind of violence, from now on and from the past. We will act with maximum transparency and absolute collaboration with justice to clarify possible cases of rape, whether current or past. Teachers are a key tool in this work, they are the referents of the students and the trusted person, and we are aware that they often feel overwhelmed by situations, and that is why we propose to give them tools and support. And especially the directions: so that they have all the resources they need to be able to cope with situations and give the best response. As the most responsible of the centers, they have to have a specific training, and be at their side, because they don't have to do this path alone. This is why we want to create a figure of reference with the presence of the territory, which is, as I said, the referent of the centres, of the teachers and of the families both in matters of prevention and formation as at the time of acting before possible cases of violence, a figure which helps us to improve internal coordination, and also with the rest of departments, and which is a link with the different support networks. The first step in this fight is prevention. We have to work to avoid the reproduction of violent roles, and we have to do it from the first moment, from the beginning of schooling. And to prevent it is key the formation, the formation of the teachers, so that they have tools of endowment and know how to act, and that is why we are about to close a specific plate of formation in coeducation, equality of genera and rapes. And also the formation of the underage, the education of the underage, of children and primary school, to fight against the reproduction of stereotypes and strengthen their emotional and emotional education. This is why we need to approach a full sexual and affective education from very young people, and that is why we are working from the department to improve the curricula in this sense, which is an ambitious better, in line with the society of the 21st century. And we also work to eradicate certain gender roles that we often let play in the classroom and that mark very small domain roles and different spaces for each other. In cases of sexual abuse and abuse, such as teachers and students take over and denounce, because the abusive conduct of some does not have to be a stumbling block for a collector, the teacher, but the resolution of the conflict has to be a pride throughout the centre. In this line, and in order to defend the victims, but also to defend the good name of the school, before evidence located in the judicial field the department will be like a private accusation. In the same vein, we must recognize the responsibility that surrounds us and renounce to resort against certain feelings that accuse us of not having done what it was necessary to do. And take one more step: ask forgiveness to the victims on behalf of the government, if we have failed at the time to guarantee their safety. Violent situations cannot be treated only as a problem of cohabitation; they must be cut to size. When a situation of violence occurs, it cannot be treated as a mere problem of coexistence. For this reason, before any suspicion of any act of violence that may enter the judicial sphere, we would act immediately to put it in communication from Mossos d'Esquadra and Prosecutoria de Minors, because who is silent, who is concealing, is complicit, and the school is not complicit, the school educates in equality, freedom and equity. This is the compromise, as I said, that we will bring forward from this zero tolerance plan to the school, a zero tolerance plan to the school that will include all the protocols that at these times are already active, its better, the new protocols that come together, the coexistence plans, but it will also give specific criteria for acting for the teacher and the directions of the teaching centers, and it will also situate this new creation technical staff that announced, this technical staff that we will place in each of the territorial services, and that will have as its specific function to guarantee the formation, prevention, but also the solution of conflicts, but also accompany it as far as possible from that person, of the lesser of those who have suffered from the rape centre. Of rapes there are many, you said: from major to major, from minor to minor, from minor to major, from external person to internal person... We all have to face them, but those who have to worry most, more than anyone else, are the ones who suffer the least. It's the department's compromise, and we'll do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.216.0	Thank you, Counselor. The answer is the Member's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.217.0	Thank you, President. Well, I think that the coordinator of the sexual and reproductive rights intergroup is very happy this late, and I think that this turn, this turn for the prevention of rapes and zero tolerance in the educational centers that the counselor has just presented to us, as a first presentation, goes a long way to another turn that we have from the department, that is, coeducation, that is to end these roles of domination and, all that we have to society and that concerns us about society, therefore, to transfer it to schools and institutes and take responsibility for administration. It's very important..., it's true that there's a whole bunch of rapes, but maybe one of the ones that's become more known to the press has been sexual assaults, and above all adult minors. And that's why we considered..., and we've already done two days from the intergroup precisely to talk about the approach to sex-affective education, precisely because one way of prevention is to form our minors, because it's the only way, as it was before, to take them and make them citizens in full right. The counselor said they wouldn't make it alone. Therefore, I think it will be very important that, as long as we take over the children and our young people, in order to detect the only ones of these violences..., I think that also, as I said, the teacher should not make it alone, the Administration should also be responsible, and therefore the same way that sexual education is a challenge and is the only way forward in this line, the formation of professionals also..., it is obvious that without it we will advance at very different rates. He spoke of a figure of reference that I would like to say more about, precisely because, as he said on the first turn, if the adult is the one who has to protect the minor and it turns out that it is this adult who is exercising this violence, this role of domination and this abuse of power, then well, this figure of reference puts the focus on another person precisely in order to be able to give our infants and our young man another way to be able to denounce it. As we say, there are different types of violence, even though I don't think we have to fragment it, because ultimately violence is violence, in whatever degree it is, from who it is and who it is. I think that one of the challenges that I also find to be very connected with co-education and that ultimately, I think that this week we all see it very clearly is that the feminist perspective and the gender perspective will make our lives much better for all the areas that we have in front of us. And sexual identities, which can also be a motivating act of violence, of settlement, of annexation, that maybe until they reach a very evident degree, that we see that our youngest is in danger, his life is in danger..., until then we don't pose, right? And I have the feeling that somehow social awareness also helps the centers to do this job. And in this sense InfoK also deals with abuse and sexual abuse, precisely, in order to take over children. At the end and end, what we want to say from the Republican Parliamentary Group is that the school is still a small representation of society, which here reproduces the best things and worst things that we do outside our centres, once we are adults, and that the degree of responsibility for administration is essential. That's why we're also celebrating that if you show the department it's personal as a private accusation, because we don't just think we need to have a repair attitude, but also a direct action, and I think the particular accusation is the way we don't stand back and take a step forward, which is what we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.218.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I've got the word again for the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.219.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, certainly, the invisibility of violence is itself a rape. And this is a compromise that we are very clear about, because we are convinced that the one that gives greater tranquillity to the citizenry is not to show that there is no violence when there is: the one that generates more confidence to the citizenry is the guarantee that the Administration has acted clearly and decisively before any case of violence against children and adolescents. In this sense, the instructions I have given to advise the various agencies of the department, to the inspection, among others, are clear: zero tolerance and absolute transparency. Zero tolerance and absolute transparency accompanied, as I say, by actions in formation, of formation in coeducation. For example, new training courses for directors, which will start soon, already include training in this aspect for the first time, because, I insist, the directions of the center are key in the first performance and are key in the first prevention. And also, as I was commenting, this change in the curricular gaze, not just in the perspective of gender, which we are working on, but in the emotional formation, which accompanied it. Because we are aware that school is very important. It is very important the family, it is very important the society, but the school is very important for the transmission of roles. And we're worried about many aspects of role transmission. Textbooks are the easiest aspect of the table, it's the easiest, and surely every time it's the least important, because every time the textbook is the least present in our classrooms. It is more important to use the country, for example; it is a daily use, and it is a use that marks power situations, public space occupation situations, public space expulsion situations. And here it is true that there are many schools and institutes that are already working and that are doing a reordering of the use of the duck. But this too..., we will mark, from the days that we are preparing, lines in this sense, as for example, on a similar day that we make on our criteria of school construction, the criteria of perspective of gender also in school construction and the criteria of the diaphanity of spaces also in school construction. And I would like to value what we are already doing in the department, I would like to value what we are doing because often, when we went to see a school that has had a problem and we went to see it to communicate to the direction of the center that we were with them in the resolution of the problem, they say to us: "No, the protocol has been very good to us, but from the point of view that the protocol has been very lacking, I insist, this follow-up of the Administration, which is often not given. Among the things I think we need to put in value..., are, for example, vocational training studies in gender equality, which we already have in the country, which we have at these times only in two centres, because they have just begun, and which are vocational training studies in gender equality which until now are regional from the state curriculum and which we are about to approve, and the Catalan School Council has already given the visa for the publication of a specific curriculum order of these vocational training studies in gender equality. We have a lot of work to do, we have to do a lot of work, but I insist on the department's commitment: zero tolerance, absolute transparency, help to the centers, support and repair of victims, and work in formation, in co-education, gender equality and fight against rape. It is our obligation and we will do more, I hope, with the support, the support, the support, the impulse and the debate of all parliamentary groups and the whole chamber. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-06-2601.220.0	Thank you, Counselor. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning.
