ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.1.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies... the session begins. The list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is included in the dossier, which has been distributed to all Members and Members, and, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules, will be substantiated tomorrow, to the gods of the morning. Before we follow, I would like to welcome Mr Manuel Losada of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group – welcome – and Mr Alfons Montserrat, of the Republican Parliamentary Group – and also welcome you, Member of Parliament. And I also suggest that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, Deputy Ferran Pedret, with a request for parental leave, has delegated her vote to Congresswoman Eva Granados, spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, and, thus, Congresswoman Anna Caula has delegated her vote for this plenary session to Congressman Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group. I also recall that Mr Raül Romeva has appointed Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise his parliamentary rights. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] Let's move on to the first point of the order of the day, which is the communication to the Ple of the composition of the months to the commissions. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees must be communicated to the plenary. As the current composition of the Committee on Culture, the Committee on Institutional Affairs and the Committee of the Mayor of Greuges is included in the plenary's file, I would like to point out that I am not happy with the reading. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Very well, therefore, we give for complement to what is stipulated in article 49.2 of the Rules. [[Asking the Government about the 2019-2020 school year]] [[300-00164/12]] And let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is item 2, which is the question to the Government about the 2019-2020 school year; question presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, to expose it to Mrs Esther Niubó. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.2.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, good late, councilor too, good late everyone. This is the last Ple of the session period, we are about to go on vacation, and there are also many dozen who have been preparing for the different schools and institutes for their own course weeks ago. And it seemed to us that it was a good time, that it was a long time from the press of the countdown that assumed September for the same department, also for the cloisters, to put it all together for the beginner, to pass a little the state of public education and debate on how this own course is presented. And I'd like to start, so I'd like to make some premeditated reflections, which seems to me to be obvious, but not for that..., it seems very important to repeat them, doesn't it? Catalonia suffers from an under-financing of public education, which conditions us, and very much, like the country. And the public investment that the Government of the Generalitat is dedicated to education is the lowest in Europe. They know that it is at the order of 2,8_per_cent; we are therefore far from the reversal provided for by the same law of education in Catalonia for 2017, which was fixed at a 6_per_cent. And when one compares it to other autonomous communities, so you see how the governments of the Catalan Government since 2010 have sacrificed much more in education than other territories of the State. And so, we're not just from the territories where we've spread out in education, but we haven't managed to reverse many of these. And this, therefore, ends up consolidating a decade of involvement in educational spending and, therefore, instead of getting close to the European media, has made us even longer than the European media. And so, while public investment in education decreased by almost 20_per_cent from 2010 onwards, the spending of education families increased by more than 27_per_cent. And perhaps this explains that Catalonia is one of the autonomous communities where the highest level of family income ends up conditioning the student's income, an indicator that manifests this lack of fairness in the education system. And yesterday itself – as we know that we have parallel an investment speech at the Congress of Deputies – Pedro Sánchez, therefore, pointed out the need to take a step forward like the country and make a determined bet for knowledge and education. He spoke of the will to turn Spain into the first European country to recognise the right to education throughout life, which is one of the United Nations SDGs in the 2030 Agenda, and in concrete terms he spoke of the need to shield public education, with an agreement to allocate at least 5_percent of GDP to it. [[remorse of the voice]] And that without conditioning it or the economic conjuncture...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.3.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.4.0	... – thank you, President – neither the political color of the party or the parties in the Government. A vow that matches... when we often express what we think of the European Union, right? : we accept that Brussels will condition us, for example, the limit of the public deficit as a maximum of 3_per_cent, and sometimes we say that we would expect the European Union to, therefore, mark the different Member States with a minimum of investment in chapters that are priorities from the social point of view, such as education, for example, at 6_per_cent. Because if we want to face the main challenges we have as a country – generate educational opportunities in equal opportunities– we need this 6_per_cent in education. And, if they believe it, but it seems to us that it is not possible in the short term, at least we expect courageous gestures or decisions to lead us to this gifra in a reasonable term. And that, therefore, involves talking about progressive taxation or fair formulas for, surely, recapturing more. Well, here in Catalonia we are as we are, and from my group we are unable to see a better perspective in the short and medium term, if it does not go through a change of government. They did not submit assumptions for this 2019; we will see whether later, therefore, we have a proposal that comes to Parliament or not. But what is clear is that Catalonia can no longer bear the inaction of this government. The education sector is a relevant sector, which is also noting the effects of this government's impotence to move forward. And, therefore, we understand that it is no longer possible to justify the failure of this Parliament, the failure of the law, or even decrees approved by the same Government, with the chant of "we have no presuppositional availability. It's just that the government's own inopportunity makes it necessary to re-report situations that had to be resolved years ago. Because, speaking of inaction, then, we have to get the next course back on track and it will actually be the seventh course that starts without the government having regained co-responsibility in the financing of the schools. We know that the zero-three educational stage, therefore, is the exclusive competence of the Generality. We know that, in a co-responsibility exercise, in his day he agreed and agreed that the total cost of the place would be paid by one_third the Generality, one_third the joints and one_third the families, but since 2012 we continue with a government that has abandoned its responsibility, and today families and joints end up costing more than 80_percent of the cost of the place. And that has some effects. And it is true that the parliaments until today had already assumed a share of this financing without the corresponding ones, but in a lower import and generating, moreover, territorial inequalities. But, therefore, it is no less certain that the Government, with its inaction and abandonment of children's larties, has ended up reducing the opportunities for many infants to access decisive education at this stage. You, Counselor, know perfectly well that there are feelings of compulsory compliments, that now they are firm, that they force their government to return the debt pending a number of Catalan assemblies that resorted to justice. You yourself, in this chamber, answering a parliamentary question to me, committed yourself to regaining co-responsibility in the financing of the zero-three and to returning the outstanding debt of the assemblies, not just those who had resorted to justice; you were talking about everyone. And so I'd ask you what you can tell me about that. Because, of course, the 20_million euro xifra, which is the one that in the debate on assumptions, which was neither approved nor presented, but in any case they made a debate..., was altogether insufficient; it was that it did not allow or recover one_third of the third that concerns the Government of Catalonia, and, obviously, less to pay the outstanding debt, which, only if it complements today's sentiments, already amounts to more than 20_million euro. Therefore, it seems to us an important incompliment the issue of zero-three, and we follow exactly how we were seven years ago. And, following in this chapter of non-compliances, neither has the most well-known decree as the inclusive school decree been implemented – we talked about a few weeks ago in this very hemisphere. And, therefore, it is certain that it is necessary to incorporate changes into the current legislation to guarantee an inclusive system in its totality: it means zero-three, it means also non-lectual educational time; but it is urgent as at least, and is pending, the complete deployment of the current decree. And, therefore, we would like the first course started with an inclusive focus, which overcomes the shortcomings in the attendance of the student with special educational needs that still exist today. This means more docile and non-docian support staff, it means lower rates for the PAE, which are saturated, and therefore we will be careful that this is the case, but not just that, but what we want is that there are no more inclusive details, as there was a year ago. For what he does to vocational training, we have already told him in his day, therefore, that we were very concerned about how he had managed the resolution of the dual FP, which was initially planned for this own course, especially the lack of social and political consultation of an important curriculum reform, and also strategic, of the country, because we were concerned about the proposal that was at the end: the one that represented an empty content of the curriculum, time-retailed materials, the precariousness of the figure of learning and, above all, an excessive teaching boost in the first course, which ended up assuming, therefore, a very important barrier, which could precisely generate more abandonment, right? We have abandonment at 40_per_cent in middle-grade cycles, and it exactly seems to me that it is one of the main reptes we have to fight. So, as it seems to me that vocational training is instrumental in reversing this high percentage of people with low qualifications, precisely improving labour input taxes and meeting skill needs in very important times of change and impacting on working and professional lives, we would like to know how these negotiations with the sector are progressing, wouldn't we? , with unions, with employers, about this new model of vocational training and, therefore, know which changes will incorporate into the course itself, if there will be any, at the organizational or curriculum level, and also to which direction they point. Do you aim for a dual or alternating training model with more hours of practice? Because they're different models. And I also wanted to ask you if you are already in a position to guarantee the gratuity of the FP public offer or when we see the agency that was planned for 2016. I, already entering the programming of the educational offer, do seem to find that it follows the davalada of groups of P3 and of the stage of primary education, suppose that to a large extent favored by this davalada demografica between the population of children, and in change it follows the increment of groups of secondary. And we ask ourselves if there is no such thing as, as has often been discussed in this Parliament, a reduction in rates – today they are 25 to primary and children, 30 to ESO and 22 and 27 when we talk about centres of high complexity – if taking advantage of this demographic context we can improve educational care and also keep professionals in the system, precisely reducing these rates. It seems to me that it is a measure that would be interesting to contemplate; that it is done in a consensual way with the municipalities, for example, as it was done a couple of years ago, and that, moreover, would have the support of the educational community in its conjunction. And we have to regret that in certain municipalities we have come back to live this year, in the pre-registration process, so many protests of assemblies, of educational community, for those that have been announced unilaterally. If groups and lines had been predicted in the pre-registration process and there had been a demand for a student, it was announced at the time of the truth that these were closed. For example, you could talk about the reduction of a batting line at the La Ferreria Institute, in Montcada and Reixac, a center that last year already lost a format cycle and that this year, therefore, in view of the pre-registrations, will leave without place one hundred and forty students who had registered for the next course. Therefore, it seems to me very important that they plan together with the assemblies, with dialogue and, therefore, speaking and also listening. And we are also following the application of the new Decree on the Integration of Centres, which will allow the Government to take over the ownership of many concerted centres, for example, which could be used for public purposes, in order to give precise answers to the lack of public places close to certain barrels, for example, in Barcelona, which have problems of soil and which end up generating ballots, increases in yields and education not at all balanced. Here I wanted to ask you, counselor, how many centers – because you've already heard about it – will go on to make the public offer that exists at these times and what solution was found for the faculty. And in terms of secondary education, we are concerned that normally, every year, we see a student escape that has made primary schooling in public ownership centres and that, in change, in its step to secondary education, therefore, they go to concerted centres; a xifra of 17_per_cent, according to what we have. And so we want to ask you what the key is, with the data that you already have, because it seems to me to manifest the dissatisfaction or many doubts that exist between many families at the time of making this change: normally very massive institutes, large for children and children still small, or the treachery that you suppose respects the stage of primary education, despite the efforts they make to coordinate the center, and also the teachership. And I link this to the importance of school institutes. He knows that... well, these can develop this pedagogical continuity. And we recognize the effort that the department has made precisely to hold fifty-three centers in operation, as we will take the course it sees, while we often think that it has done more as the response to the lack of secondary seats than for the real defense of a model. But in any case, welcome are still here. They know perfectly well that the demand for these centers by the educational community, therefore, is growing and that empowering this model presupposes a clear bet for public education in secondary school. And in this sense, then, let's gather this direction. And in this chapter of secondary education I also wanted to ask him about the evolution of the offer of post-compulsory education, above all the percentage of the growth of secondary groups, and above all post-compulsory secondary education, he obeys the concerted or subsidized offer, and especially in the higher-grade format cycles. It seems to me that here there is, therefore, an important increase in groups at the concerted centres, and we want to ask it how it intends to guarantee the freeness of these studies in this way. And anyway, let's leave it here, and we'll leave the rest of the questions for the second time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question has the word Education Councillor, Mr. Josep Bargalló. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.6.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Niubó, has had a lot of issues, I will try to answer 'Istos and each of them. First, I agree with you: there is an under-financing of education in our country, a product of the infra-financing of the Generality, obviously, and, at the same time, a product of the continued prorogation of assumptions of 2017 here. You, I think, make a lot of groups..., indicators about the state of our education system, like there's a lot of indicators and there's a lot of possible readings of the indicators, I'm afraid it wouldn't hurt to stay one day with all the parliamentary groups and put the indicators on the table. The ministry has just published two huge volumes of indicators, reading from which the result of the education system in Catalonia, in the State, is excellent. And it doesn't match some of the indicators that you use sometimes. Therefore, I am available to all of you to give them the indicators of the ministry, because in the present state, still of the state, it seems to us that they are very valid. What he does to the assumptions, it is obvious, is to say, to work with the assumptions of 2017 when, for example, we have three_ thousand more teachers than in 2017 and this September we will have seven hundred more teachers, it is very difficult – it is very difficult. Because this September we have 3,700 nomins more than in 2017 and we have the same assumptions. It is therefore clear that we have to assume 2020. It is clear that these presuppositions in 2020 have included these 3,700 more teachers, but they have included many more things. And we are working there and we are at the disposal of your parliamentary group to agree them. I have already told you, I continue to tell you about yours and any parliamentary group that is concerned about the future of education. For what it does to zero-three, firm – firm – feelings we only have two, but it's the same, the others will come. With the two meetings we have firm feelings we're talking and we're coming to terms, with the rest, we'll talk and we'll come to terms. We're talking to the Association of Municipalities and the Federation of Municipalities – which we stopped talking about last week but we talked about last week, we talked about last week; we stopped talking about not just for the holidays but because there will be representation changes for the Association and the Federation. And we are talking again with the deputies, because three have changed color in the presidency; three have changed from the government team and one, which has not changed the government team, has changed the presidency personally and has a deputy in charge of education who was not there until now. So we need to start talking. I hope – I hope – that by institutional responsibility all the deputies – all –, inclusive to the greatest, maintaining the compromise word that if the Government did not have assumptions at the length of 2019, the deputies would not abandon the follow-up that had been made until the time of the gatherings. I hope that this compromise is maintained because, if not, it would be, as I have already talked to the Association and the Federation, it would be a drama for the joints – for the joints it would be a drama. For what he does to inclusive school, we, with the presuppositional prorogation, have planned to give more space to inclusive school in the coming course. We have, however, clearly predicted that there will be a hundred and twenty-five places in the course you will attend to the inclusive school more than I can handle, quite a few, but we are on a presuppositional prorogation and on Chapter 1 extended. Therefore, failing to do other things that the department does we will get these hundred and twenty-five inclusive school places, which is an inclusive school reinforcement that are insufficient for inclusive school. For what he does to vocational training, I can tell him that there is already an agreement between social and economic agents and the Department of Education and the Department of Work. Agree on the model of vocational training and the model of dual vocational training which will be approved by the next 31 August in a meeting of the Board of Directors. But the documents are already worked and are already granted. Parallel to this necessary concertation, we are working with the trade union months, the sectoral trade union tables for how this FP model will apply in times and organization aspects, and we are working with the meetings of directors of how this organization will apply in curricular aspects. But the first step, which is what is needed, is to consult with social and economic agents to say that it will take place on August 31st. The rates, we have at these times in enrollment, with enrollment data that 96.5_percent of the P3 groups are twenty-five or less and that 95.7_percent of the first ESO groups are thirty or less, huh? Therefore, the large group size – 97_per_cent, 96_per_cent – is found in the limits of the ration with the current registration data. You think the current enrolment data are not yet definitive because not all enrolled students go to the center that was enrolled in September. And in metropolitan municipalities, in a concrete municipality, from enrollment until today we have four hundred more enrollment petitions than would be where it is called living enrollment, which are now four hundred. So in September we will really know how many students we have in our classrooms, and so we will finally know how many groups we have, how many groups we have. We'll have about five hundred contracted teachers, in the gang of inclusive school, to attend to these group increases, basically, as you said, in high school. Planning has taken place jointly with joint meetings in most cases. First, when the assemblies turned; secondly, because there were municipal elections that, in some cases, were complex and complicated, but it was done in most cases. And in most cases there have been complaints that have been resolved; for example, a parliamentary question that you entered a very short time ago – or that came to me a very short time ago to answer – about Reus has been resolved with a complete agreement on the educational quota. At the same time, for the change of title, on the fifteen days between the ratification for this plenary of the Parliament of the law of change of title and today, on the fifteen good days, we have rejected twelve petitions written formally and reasoned as the decree asks, which refer to twenty centres, because some petition is of some title that has more than one centre. We have, therefore, at this time, the already formal, clear petition of twenty centres, we have tricks, conversations of others who have been interested, because already, I say, already exist, we have, it seems to me that this said, a meeting with the unions of the concerted school, private school and concerted to start talking about the processes of subrogation of the staff of these centres, it is not the same as the cases of the municipal centres because the conditions are different and we will have to work center by center with the business committee of each assembly, but this is on this path. And, for what you do to the school institutes – as you said – the figures you said are correct. In any case – I must say – it is a model in which we believe, it is a model that we created years ago, which we have recovered now, it is a model in which we believe, it is not a model that we can universalize, because we already start, for example, from buildings, from centres, from traditions, but it is a model that serves us for many things, which is useful for many things, and not only for secondary schooling, it is useful for many things and, moreover, in each case it is very useful for something that is very unique and very concrete. Anyway, we'll keep talking about it in the second round. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.7.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, it's the congresswoman's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.8.0	Well, thank you, counselor. To start with the zero-three, of course, you demanded this compromise in the Chambers and it seems to me that, surely, like all the institutions, and more so if we are, sure you will be up, but of course, you have not said any compromises, you have not made any compromises of which return calendars of the debt, you have said that you are speaking with many groups, especially with those who already have a firm feeling and who are agreeing, you are fine, we will see, right? When other feelings are firm soon, then, if this dialog can be produced, but in any case, for what it does to the recovery of this co-responsibility, you have not marked any calendars. When we discussed those assumptions that were not made and that 20_million euro xifra that seemed to us, as I said about the ridiculous whole because it was clearly insufficient not only for the return of the debt, but to recover this third third of the correspondence, it is clear to me that I would like to see that if you, at a later date, were to present a proposal for a presumption, that in fact, it would be a much higher xifra and much more sufficient in relation to the needs that exist. For what it does to vocational training, so it seems to me..., we celebrate that there has been this proposal of agreement on the FP model, arranged above all with the sector in a social way; August 31st we will see it. It has not given a date for the agency, I mean that this, as I say, was an agency that was planned for 2016, at the beginning of this political course, or, in any case, in September of last year we came to an agreement because at the most of this year we have it, still without holding it, I also seem important that in the framework of the deployment of the law of professional training it is also more advanced than we have seen so far. And on the subject of the routes, it is true that they are at 25 and 30, but of course, we also have to calculate the live registration, and you know that many centers, in half the course, end up enough over these routes that are established. But to continue a little with the debate, I did want to let you know – you know that a proposal for school hours has been made by the Federation of Pedagogical Renewal Movements and the Jaume Bofill Foundation – and I wanted to ask you what is the capture of the department on this proposal, because we would like to see what proposal you have, if you have any, in order to reverse the compacted day, we have not talked about it at the Institute, to recover also the service of serving as a waiter at the secondary school, which are very important questions, which are also the object of the Pact on Hourly Reform and which have an important influence on the subject of segregation. We know that for many children and children the step from primary to high school is not just to lose this job, but also to lose the help linked to this job and, therefore, to ask if they have any pilot proof, as it seemed to have it, if it focuses on the school institutes and, well, if they can explain it and if they have any expectation of how long this pilot project will last, to know whether they intend to extend it to other schools that are not in school, in view of their own course, because we are concerned that this creates more differences between the school institutes, that it is a fantasy model, and the rest of the schools. For what he does to the faculty, we do insist on the need for more public offer of permanent training, both face-to-face and non-face, because it seems to us that it is the main tool that we can give today to the teachers, to the teachers, to the teachers, to the teachers, and surely the training does not have to be so much in accordance with the criteria appropriate to the proper teacher, but it must be much more subject to the needs of the educational project of the center or, in any case, to the entourage in which it is; therefore, it must strengthen and improve this offer. And, for another band, regret that the next course, therefore, will begin again without reversing the conditions of the pre-retailed faculty and that it will not be effective the reduction of the two teaching hours for the senior faculty of fifty-five years, as the government had granted with the unions in 2017. And, for what he does to the anti-segregation pact, we did appreciate positively that in the pre-enrollment process this year, extra points were removed for the student he had family members who had been students of a centre, because it seemed to us to be an element of inequality, or to children and children with gluten intolerance problems. We understood that the fact of suffering this disease did not suppose to have more points, but it did mean making efforts because all the fooders were free of gluten, were sure for this student. Two years ago from the first resolution on this issue, and I wanted to ask how we have this question, counselor, if they can guarantee the food safety of celiac infants to all educational centers. We ask because the Association of Celiacs of Catalonia is concerned and surely right. If, on the basis of registration data, some conclusion can be drawn as to what it does to the fight of segregation, especially in the public/agreed balance, or what is being done, for example, to strengthen the seedlings in the centres of maximum complexity, which seems to us to be an important element. And about creation has not yet spoken, but on the issue of the creation of our centres, twenty-seven new school centres have been announced. Yes, quite often, so, many of these centers have gone through this construction, but it is because the same joints have paid in many cases for projects of execution. And, therefore, insist on the need to work rapeseed rape with the municipalities but assuming each of their responsibilities. And, therefore, in view of the very course, we do ask you to plant an increase in the significance of the investment in Education that allows you to begin to reverse the flaps and that as a minimum does not apply nines, to abandon the incompliments, to assume the reptes that this chamber has marked and that as a society we mark them [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And that means zero-three, that means resources and determination...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.9.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.10.0	... to fight – I finish – segregation and collaborate, as I said, with joint planning assemblies. And in all this, we wish you good luck.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] It's, again, the counselor's turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.12.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be in a hurry, because... I have always commented to you, honourable Member, that it is much easier to ask a question than the one you delay in answering, and therefore all your questions I am afraid that I will not be able to answer it properly and therefore I will try to answer those that seem most important and, in any case, I am at your disposal to expand the rest later on. The Government maintained the will to return the co-responsibility in the financing of children's playgrounds from the assumed new – maintained. What's the xifra? As much as possible, it comes from the funding of the Generality and agreements with parliamentary groups that must support these assumptions. The arrangements with the joints? We're having them every time..., we're having them – and you know someone. And we're having them, let's just say, plus, with all the joy and no problem. The dual FP: are at the board of the Rector Council the statutes of the agency, and are debating at the board of the Rector Council for social and economic agents. The clocks. This is a very important debate. It's a debate that's not just about teachers' labor rights. It is a debate that is not just about reconciliation of working and family life. It is a debate that is also the organization of activities in a municipality and it is also the interests of the student and it is also the needy, as we take care of the intellectual and physical development of the student. And if we put all this in the table, it is certain that some of the current times do not favor a correct physical and intellectual development of our student. I've said it over and over again. We have students – in some cases in the rural world but also in the metropolitan area – who come from the seven and few from home, who arrive at four and enough home and who have not eaten warm. And while we have asked for a physical effort and an intellectual effort. That, tell us, we have to rearrange it. What? So many ways. Reobrint canteens at the institutes, for example – for example. The institutes that are being built are already making them with canteens another time; so we reopen canteens. Or coming to terms with gatherings, and these days I have come to terms with some gatherings to use facilities that have food – sometimes it is the sport that is on the side, that has a food service – because our students can serve it. It's a debate that we need to expand and that we want to get the student in, into this debate – we want the student in. For what it does in constructions, at these times, we have now, this summer, the finalization of four public centers of new construction, the finalization of seven rehabilitations and great expansions, with a cost almost like that of new construction and 377 works of better in centers. Therefore, we are in a very important construction process and, moreover, with the need for them to end in September. Agreement reached for the government, there are twenty-seven school buildings, all assumed for the government, and thirty-nine constructions agreed upon with the assemblies, which sometimes simply means that the assembly does the bidding to go faster. Sometimes I want to say other things, sometimes I want to say that we have agreed because the polysport that we are building is municipal and, therefore, it is convenient for us not to give up, in which, let's say, we have a lot of interest, because they have just sealed the responsibility of the local administration and the Department of Education in planning and they have just forced us – in case we didn't want to – to always work colza with the assembly. These agreements, these local world agreements with the Department of Education are fundamental, they are absolutely fundamental. I already say: twenty-i-set constructions assumed for Infrastructures. as many as thirty agreed with joint ventures; of these new constructions say that some of them are simply that joint ventures are part of the bidding process, in others that we jointly assume construction costs. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the feminization of the Civil Code of Catalonia]] [[300-00165/12]] The next question is about the feminization of the Civil Code of Catalonia, presented by the Grup Parlamentari Republicà. Mrs Jenn Díaz has the word to expose it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.14.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. "If we change the way we express ourselves, we can change pipelines," said Marcela Pereira, a psychologist specializing in neurolinguistic programming in a report published by Critic, who I have used to make this intervention, signed by Neus Molina, about whether or not to incorporate inclusive language into societies. There's still a lot of reticence, but with this phrase I've started it's obvious that changing realities also goes by to name them. The debate is broad and we have opinions of all colors and the pose on the table, this debate, precisely for the revision of the Civil Code, to make it more inclusive, more just and more feminist, counsel. It is obvious that there will be someone who sees in these changes an aesthetic or superficial revision, because they are not aware of the language's power over reality, and it is precisely for this reason that I would like to do a few more points about the need to incorporate inclusive language to show that language changes realities and we can't expect another thing from the Civil Code. According to Marina Subirats, sociologist, language bears the mark of the dominant groups, of the power groups, and precisely for this reason reformulating language to make it more inclusive and fairer is a decision that still has no consensus in society and that we will have to work for this to happen. For now it seems that the game wins the economy of language and, despite everything, the department, counsel, makes a brave bet and proposes to review the Civil Code. It's a first step, an unthinkable one, because justice is fairer and takes more account of the half of the population, making visible the women, their diversity and a way of hearing the world. The generic male often tends to invisible the women. The economy of language, as I said a while ago, or inertia is not enough motility, and we can't help but call the difference normalism, name the visible women and change the language we change the future of Catalonia. Eulàlia Lledó, also to the report of Critic, says that using the female induces to talk about the women. Every time we make ourselves visible, take the word or that the word specifically refers to us, we normalize our presence in the world, the impact of the gifts on the public sphere. In a way, every time we speak in women or use a word that does not exclude us and that is actually generic, we modify the common imagination and societies and cultures stand precisely in this common imagination. Language is, therefore, another of the many trenches that women use to fight masculinism, patriarchy and androcentrism. To close this issue of inclusive language, I would not want to obviate another reality: that good practices such as this always work new keys and that it is certain that the language evolves slowly, and when the debate of inclusive language is already on the political agenda, the binaryism of genera unfolding makes us realize that the reality is more complex than the words allow us and that, if necessary, we do not need to create new ones. In order not to fall into this outbound binarism we will have to find new formulas so that we can be truly inclusive without leaving anyone behind. But inclusive language, beyond its own debate and how it promotes the visibility of eternally underrepresented women and communities, also causes further changes. For example, with the incorporation of inclusive language it was done causing a revision of the traditional family concept. The moment you write the most inclusive poses in question that patriarchal and conservative societies have wanted to establish as the only family model, so that family diversity settles in the Civil Code thanks to this review, counsel. So important is language, which is able to delve into a matter as transcendental as family, one of the most protected institutions for conservatives, which have always wanted it to be done at its own level. The inclusion of different types of families, in the same line as the updating of the forms that were announced by the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families, reinforces the new models that form part of the Catalan society. Illuminating family diversity in the common imagination it once gave is essential to normalize its existence. From school to school, we have to settle down, because it's already a reality in Catalonia and we still have a lot of work to do. With this review, counsel, family diversity will not be the exception, but the norm. And I wouldn't want to forget – that we already know it's a recurring theme in me – that family ties, that among family diversity they may be the most oblivious, because we consider that duplication of family nuclei or that children have two cases is not in themselves discriminatory and it is true that in themselves it is not, but from justice they can also promote tools to promote friendly separations, that make life easier for families ties. And about the parent coordinator we'll talk about another day, counselor. To finish this first turn, I'd like to make it look like a symbol of this revision. Until now, there was the figure of the good father, as in "good faith". So, well, the new Catalan civil code can dispense with this paternalistic figure and loaded with symbolism that represents the good father. What we need is a good civil code and not a good father. Next time, counsel, I will address questions such as the autonomy of the body or free sexual relations, which deserve a separate block. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, has the word the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.16.0	Thank you, President. Very late, deputies, deputies. Mrs. Jenn Díaz, thank you for your inquiry. The Government of Catalonia, from the Department of Justice, we have proposed to incorporate the feminist perspective into justice and law. I'll tell you a truth about Perogrullo, if he's allowed to express himself, right? : standards produce legal effects, this is a reality. The norms, therefore, order our society, help to live, to live together and also regulate our reality. But basically, they also draw a model of society, the one that is wanted and that is determined at a certain time. And, basically, standards also produce a very important pedagogical effect: they change, they configure, the models of society, but they are also part of pedagogy, they are pedagogy in the state because they draw which social reality they want to change and which social reality we are, therefore, drawing. It is obvious that we live in a heteropatriarchal society, a society in which the male gender and heterosexuality are imposed on other genders and different sexual orientations. A society that discriminates 50_percent of the population for the simple fact of being women. A society in which in the best of cases women are invisible, when we are not discriminated against, assaulted or kill us for our kind, kill us for being women. More than fifty feminicides in the Spanish State in which we carry this year, the year 2019. It's not a point problem, it's not an anecdote, it's a structural problem. It is the consequences of living in an unjust heteropatriarchal system, which permeates all relations of hierarchy of power and status, relationships that devalue everything you have to see with femininity and recognition towards women. We live in an unequal society, which feminizes the poor and precarious the work we develop women, distinguishing and segregating between productive and reproductive work; a society that has secreted the labour market and established a wage bracket in which women cover less and have less opportunities to work for the mere fact of being women. And the ladies said enough. It's been a long time, but now, basically, so we don't resign and fight what we don't like. And, therefore, we have said enough. Because there is enough: we have to talk about this society and rethink it; we have to overcome the masculinist structures that make us invisible and discriminate against us; we have to bet on a society of free people, regardless of their sex, gender, or sexual orientation. And that, Mrs Diaz, is what we have proposed to do and what we are doing and what we are involved in changing: overcoming the masculinist structures. And from the Department of Justice we have proposed to incorporate the gender perspective, and therefore the feminist perspective, into justice and the right. And that's why we start with what we have more ability to change. We have proposed to review our private right, the civil right, which together with language and culture, constitutes one of our most important distinct identity traits. Because we cannot overcome a society that is invisible, that discriminates and attacks women, if this is still the rule for androcentric and heteropatriarchal legislation. And yes, changing realities means we have to list them, we have to make them visible; language makes them visible, puts us all before the miracle. Also, beyond the declarations of general principles or principles, we can identify which concrete actions: those that enable us to overcome the discrimination that historically women have suffered in the construction of legal norms and concrete actions already known, as is now the generality of a non-sexist language. But it has to be clear if other types of actions are possible that involve the totality of legal operators. In this sense, this legislature, I begin, and I insist on this question, which I have already said several times..., but we have renewed the Commission of Codification of Catalonia, which is the specialized organ of the Department of Justice which has as its object the elaboration and the proposal for revision, updating and development of the private right of Catalonia. It is now integrated equally for women and men jurists of great prestige and both academic and professional scope. And one of the first tasks that we entrusted to the Codification Commission was a complete revision of the Civil Code of Catalonia from the feminist perspective both to eliminate the discrimination of terminological character, which unfortunately still exists, as to take measures, measures favourable to equality and gender equity, and, if necessary – and if necessary – to review the legal institutions, the law institutions, so that they respond to this visibility of women and therefore respond to the need for equity and equality. To do so, therefore, we had to form a sub-section of gender, with the presidents and other members of the Section of Person and Family and of the Section of Harmonisation, in order to analyze the conjunction of the Civil Code of Catalonia and review it in depth. I take advantage of the fortune given to me by the Senate of Catalonia and this intervention, therefore, to thank you for your task, in this case, to the General Sub-section of the Codification Commission, but also to the Codification Commission, which wanted to participate and which wanted it to be so; thanks for their excellent work. The Government of Catalonia, thanks to this work, has already approved the Preliminary Memory of the preliminary draft law updating the Civil Code of Catalonia, a law that will allow us to replace the androcentric articles and this heteropatriarchal vision. Thus, according to the current wording of the Civil Code of Catalonia – the current one – it is understood that the names in masculine gender referring to people including men and women – therefore, does not invisibilitize a part, the women –, led from the context to go the opposite way. Says years ago, this general principle was socially accepted, but it has now become an expression that discriminates against us and that invisibles women. Despite the evolution towards a more feminized and egalitarian language, the six civil code books are bitter with the endemic androcentrism of legal texts. That is why the Codification Commission is not doing an exhaustive review to identify all gender expressions and replace them with others that end up with this invisibility of women. The feminization of the articulation will be consistent with a new provision, for example, in the first book, which will include a phrase that speaks of equality and non-discrimination by reason of gender as a general rule of application in the context of civil law; that is, it is a reference text, it is a reference article so as to avoid this situation. Thus, the objectives of this revision from a feminist perspective of the Civil Code are basically the following: a comprehensive review of the Civil Code's six books to remove the sexist language endemic to its legal texts; the deletion of the masculinist expressions reflecting a heteropatriarchal social tradition, which you explained very well; the rewriting of the articles thought of from an androcentric view, with the man as the center, as the center around which it revolves all that is important; the visibility of the woman and the recognition of her as the subject and object of the right; the ending of the woman's cosification; the adaptation of the Civil Code to the evolution towards an inclusive, non-sexist, more feminine and equal language; the search for the best formula for the alternative; the creation of a clear formula for the alternative. And it will be a revision with a primarily pedagogical effect, but it will also have clear legal effects, with article deletions, but, for example, also in the composition of governing bodies of associations and foundations. And in any case, in the second turn, so, we're just praising each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, it's the congresswoman's turn again. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.18.0	Thank you, Counselor. As I was saying now, this review will have pedagogical effects and will create a precedent for good practices, women will not be invisible and our rights will begin to be considered in the Civil Code without the need for us to fight them every time. I am talking, for example, about sexual freedom or abortion, she will advise; about the autonomy of the property, that women can decide about their property without anyone forcing them. In times like the present when the rise of the extreme right retails universal rights, but above all sexual and reproductive rights, the rights of women, it is time that we set ourselves and set basic standards so that our freedom in the broadest sense does not need to be discussed with every feeling. To set an example, he will advise. Until now, to make claims of fatherhood, the mother had to justify to how many men maintained sexual relations during the period of conception of the creature in order to be able to hold the father of his child responsible; until now, the mother, therefore, was in doubt, and, with the new writing, the relations of the sea, and I quote, "with a different man, will not have relevancy, but will do a writing that will put emphasis on DNA testing, which is what determines a fatherhood at last and not these assumptions. Putting the shadow in the figure of the woman, especially in those aspects of her life in which she makes free decisions without conforming to the morals of some societies was until now the norm. The sexual freedom of women, with this review, will be well protected, and women will not have to justify what men have never had to justify. It has only been a few days since the news that Portugal was being torn by one of the historical discriminations of divorced women, which we are talking about now, of families linked. As always, we pick up old and old laws and it doesn't seem like it's a priority for no one to work on them. Since 1966, the Portuguese had to wait three hundred days to remarry, while the Portuguese only needed one hundred days. And why was that? For the presumption of fatherhood: the woman could remarry if she presented a medical report assuring that she was not pregnant; the husband was automatically associated with a possible fatherhood. It seems lying that the DNA tests are not in the center of the question, as is the woman. But don't make us strange: patriarchy has always had alliances to govern our bodies and our minds. And well, counsel, you, as Portugal is doing, that plus you are some of the pioneers in questions about equality, with this review will neutralise the genre to the Civil Code. I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the year Portugal also made a law on active consent, considering a violation of what we still have to discuss here with every complaint. Avortation, which is still death or imprisonment in some countries, will also be the object of this review – and with this I finish, counsel – because the new Civil Code will be manifest – and I quote – that "the decision on the voluntary interruption of your will correspond to the woman's decision on the conditions that determine the laws. The world is divided by half with the laws that favor free abortion or its penalty, but we do not conform to a law of respect that allows us to voluntarily interrupt the pregnancy, but we need, to build new realities, as I said to the principle, on the inclusive language, that the writing is in place. In short, counsel, this revision of the Civil Code in hope, we will not deny it; we have much work to do still in the matter of equality, and we are proud that you want to take it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.19.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's the turn, finally, of the reply, again, of the councilwoman. When he wants to, he'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.20.0	Thank you. Member, when you are referring to the concurrence of relationships, of more relationships at the time of conception, you were referring to the exception of multi-concubentium, which is the concurrence of sexual relations at the time of conception, which at these times is provided for in the Civil Code, in the Civil Code of Catalonia, and is a way of exempting, in a request for paternity, the fact that you do not have to subtender and that, therefore, you can overcome the presumption in favour of the person who is the defendant. Therefore, to delete this article has to see, therefore, to underrate the right to the woman's own and to some sexual relations with freedom – it is an affirmation – ; to delete this article means that it cannot be invoked, and therefore, the determination of fatherhood goes so far that we already have it so much in the order of the day, that moreover it has a reliability practically of the hundred_per_cent, that it is the proof of fatherhood. This is one of the articles that will have to be deleted, because it obviously has some connotations that they have to see, so, with what women can or cannot do, and, therefore, with this androcentric attitude and this way of hearing the world that is only from the vision of one part of this world. Then there's a whole series of articles that when you do the full review of what you all have to see with a world of male conception... you said, didn't you? The good father, the good father, the good father, the good administrator; but it is about the concept, the director, the patient, the constituent, the beneficiaries, the authority, the notari, the guardian, the guardian, the sworn censor, the defendant, the debtor, the creditor, the cause, the lawyers, the hereus, the official, the executive, the employee, the donor, the candidate, the cause, the good administrator, the member, the liquidator, the employer, the president, the partner, the solicitor, the substitute, the third, the worker, the volunteers, and so on practically throughout our civil code. So let's see what the writing that makes us visible to women is; it's a thorough, regulatory job, but it's also strictly legal at the time of writing. I could go with the fact that there are other things, right? , which you pointed very well: the right to our own thing. When we talk about freedom, the autonomy of the person, and within the autonomy of the person there is the right of the woman to her own, to the ability to decide on everything that affects her, if she wants to be a mother, if she doesn't want to be, etc. Therefore, also the Civil Code in this sense, therefore, must contemplate this situation: all the rights of women, being subject to rights but also being object of the right. And in this enumeration that I've made a little like this, quick, so, we're not..., I'd say, we're subject because there's a rule that says we're the same, but we're not objecting because the same Civil Code doesn't look at us and doesn't think about us when writing the joint. Then, as I said, there is also a whole series of right-wing institutions that need to be reviewed: the economic compensation from the conception of the right of women, so that... when it divides, doesn't it? , between reproductive and salaried work, and which, therefore, must also have contemplation in the Civil Code, and which, therefore, the right of women to be subject to the right, but at the same time object of the right, and at the same time, the absolute freedom and autonomy of the will, like any other person. Therefore, this is the basic idea of this regulation. Also to say that at the beginning of when the work began to analyze..., so get into the background of each of the articles and see that certain institutions at these times do not work for equality and equity. And that means we have to do a thorough review of our institutions as well. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on public policies regarding unhealthy foods]] [[300-00166/12]] The next question is about public policies that respect unhealthy foods. Presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, to expose it has the word Ms Marta Ribas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.22.0	Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. Mirin, I have them back a little until October 2016, in which I myself made an inquiry, at that time to Councillor Comín, in this plenary, with a later motion where the Parliament approved, for example – among many other things, but this was important – that a tax should be imposed on sugary drinks; the year following the Government approved it. And a few days ago we had bad news: a judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that gave partial reason to the lobby of the food industry and its marketing, and dropped the rule that develops technical and management aspects of this tax. As it goes, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has not done what it has not done is to drop the quota, of this tax, the tax in itself remains in force; it does not, in fact, enter the source of the question, the court. And, therefore, I am counting on us to continue defending not only that we have the ability to make a tax like this, but above all the need to make taxes of this style. In fact, in his two years of application, it has been shown what I gave them in October 2016 in this House: the imposition of sugary drinks is a useful tool to reduce malalties, to improve the state of the population's salvation and, therefore, also to avoid healthcare spending. It is what the UN has been demanding for years: that it is fighting against unhealthy food, that it has excess sugar, that it has excess salt or saturated fat, and that it is not only doing educational measures, but it is also doing tax measures and regulating the market and advertising of these products. A few days ago we also had a report from Ivàlua, which – surely the councillor will make reference to it – quantifies the estalvi that has already existed and what may exist in the presuppositions of salvation from this tax, from the effects of this tax to the sugary drunks. But one year ago we had another, a report from the Carlos III Institute of Health, which found, with only one year of application of the tax on sugar beakers, that the frequency of people habitually consuming sugar beakers had fallen by 25_per_cent in Catalonia, and more concretely that the largest fall was in the population in barrels with lower returns. Therefore, the tax has an impact of protection on health, and especially on the health of the most socially vulnerable population. This tax must be maintained; but, counsel, we cannot stay here. And that's what this inquiry was about, going further, because we've already called it 2016, because it's been years since the UN called for it, and because every time it's more of an emergence of public salvation. It is that the tax on sugar beet is not only maintained, but increased and stood at 20_percent of the price, as the UN has always claimed as a reference. But we were also imposed on the rest of the unsanitary food, and at that time they did not dare, they did not like, as the government, to take this turn. And, as I said, there are also regulatory measures for the market and advertising. Lobbying won't make it easy. They have already been demonstrating from the principle that this rate of sugary drinks has been attempted, in which they stopped it there – because then they were business-friendly absolutely – to Mr.Artur Mas, as it has been since it was put in place, even with a minimum amount of respect for what it was supposed to be. Obviously, they won't make it easy to go any further. The food industry, the food industry lobby, is one of the world's leading lobbyists; it has exponentially increased the past few years, in fact, as much as the consequences of people's health to consume foods that are sick of them. This sector in Spain places one_of_each_four euros in advertising; it will not be easy to regulate advertising. And we are imposing from the European Union an opacity focused on the labelling of what is and is not a food of its own. Catalonia in Comú We may not be here to hide ourselves from these great corporations and their interests, even less so when the wealth of these great lobbyists is at the expense of the salvation of the people; of all, especially the most vulnerable people: childhood and people with lower incomes. We'll put down a few dice to figure out what we're talking about. In the Spanish State, it has been a long time since the ills related to unhealthy food are the first problem of public health, before tobacco, alcohol, many others that any of you could hold to the head as problematic elements of public health. They cause cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, certain types of cancer, and psychological problems; they show that they are the main cause of many of these diseases, diseases that in general cause more than a thousand deaths in Catalonia. This means 20_percent of the health expenditure in our country; or more than 2,000_million euros from the public archives of the Generalitat go to the health expenditure of these maladies which they have as their main cause of malnutrition. And the problem is more. The last few years have tripled the obesity and overweight in the children's population: we are in numbers– maybe you're still updating them– by over 40_percent of children, and 14_percent of them, at least, with obesity. It is a very difficult risk for your present salvation, but especially for your future salvation. And as in all of salvation, and as in all of life, there is gender and class: the population with more obesity and overweight are especially women of families with lower income. This problem cannot be dealt with only through educational campaigns. It is not a problem of individual responsibility exclusively. Ciutadania is not free to choose its lifestyle or how to feed, when eating in a healthy way can lead to a hundred_euros more of a week's spending on a family. When there's no money in the butxaca, when the butxaca is empty, there's no individual freedom that's worth it. In fact, almost half the population of Catalonia cannot follow the WHO nutritional recommendations because they cannot pay for them, the foods that follow these nutritional recommendations. And healthy food is more because, among others, because of the speculative effect of food lobbying, both producers and distributors, respect the agriculture of proximity, and let's not say respect the ecological products. Allow me to set a concrete example. Do you know that it's exactly the same in a supermarket in Catalonia a Kit Kat that a natural yogurt La Fageda? Or what does the same type of VAT apply? I already know that you cannot touch on the subject of VAT, but on physical accessibility to a product or to another, at least in the areas where you have skills, or on making a specific fee for excess sugar in foods too, not only in foods, or in regular, within the margins of your skills, a clearer labelling, or a limitation to misleading advertising, especially in those foods that are intended for childhood. Now they announce themselves as nutritious products especially for infants, and even for infants, foods that have much more sugar than recommended for health authorities; let's not say when, moreover, they come with a supposed seal of some pediatric society. You can promote and facilitate access to better prices for products that are not really nutritious, and you should be able to facilitate families that have enough money in their butxaca to ensure a healthy diet for their children. There's a lot of tough-term measures. Some involve expenditure, but many do not. But they all generate estalvi: they are at health expense and, above all, they are at risk of bad conditions of salvation for the people. This is not accountable, as the study of Ivàlua has done, but for us it does not matter. The salvation of the people goes first and foremost, and there is no excuse for not making courageous policies in this sense. Since about three years ago, that young woman has been approved with a whole series of measures in this sense, practically nothing has happened; in fact, I believe that nothing has happened more than the imposition of sugary drinks. Will you advise, do you really think about this? They won't make it easy; I said that food lobbying will continue to press. Is it really about dealing with these lobbyists? Or are they satisfied with trying to keep the tax on sugary beaks and enough and continue doing business-friendly politics? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.23.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.24.0	All right. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. First of all, thank you, Mrs Ribas, for this question on a subject that obviously must be very much addressed to us in public health policies, because you are right – and people do not know how hard to recognise it, but all the contrary, insisting on what you have already put on the table – that it is a problem of public health today in our country all that refers to unhealthy foods, that we are carrying with us taxes of child overweight and obesity, but also of the population in general, that we do not like and, above all, we must work to reduce them. We are talking about the fact that people's lives are closed to the hour of conditioning the state of salvation of the people, of each person, and the state of salvation also at the population level; the habits of food life also do not escape, therefore, only all the contrary, these habits that have – and you have also noticed – a strong structural component, which can be read in a complete claus of social inequalities, in which also, obviously, the inequalities of gender are embedded: we are talking about the level of income, the level of education also, of couples, mothers, guardians, people who are due to families, children... And it is also obvious – and you have said it and I will say it with other words – and we see that republicanism is more necessary than ever. And why am I saying that? Because the supposed freedom of choice of living habits and, therefore, also of the foods we consume is conditioned by a social and gender inequality. We must try to see what the public thing is, what this general interest is, what this common good is, what goes far beyond individual freedom, which is absolutely conditioned by these inequalities. Because at present those who see themselves most harmed at the social level, such as the popular classes and especially the women, cannot have the same habits in the food that other people have. And the main causes of mortality today are absolutely related to chronic health problems, also cardiovascular, also, obviously, cancers, in which there is food, illnesses correlated with health habits, with the diet that we carry, with little physical activity and, obviously, why not say so? , also with alcohol, tobacco and other substances. And from the Salvation Department we are absolutely convinced that prevention is the best reversal. It is estimated that a euro invested in the promotion of salvation is 14.3 euros of return from this investment. And so we tried to establish some of this Parliament, and the Government of the Government of Catalonia, too, with the tax on sweet drinks, which obviously had an impact on these consumption habits. They are fiscal policies laid down also in that general policy which is said to be a greeting to all policies: from fiscal policies to health policies, health policies to health policies, as the Kingdom Unit has done, as France has done, as New Zealand has done in these types of tax. And, in addition, it has proved – and so did the report from Ivàlua – that it increases life expectancy, improves quality of life, reduces health costs, obviously, and that it has also reduced the consumption of these drinks in this 22_per_cent. Therefore, no one – anyone – can question that it is an effective measure to combat obesity, overweight and all the consequences of these diseases, and that it put us at the forefront of fiscal policies to promote these healthy habitats. And that is why, obviously, we have decided to bring this cassation appeal before this ruling of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia on the rules of taxation. Because the evidence is and the evidence has led us to make good public policies, and this is. The deposit of sugar beet is, as this Parliament has said, and as this Parliament has approved. But beyond this imposition – and you were also asking it in your inquiry – there are so many things that we can continue to do with respect for food that is unsanitary. And they're not all in the tax field, and that's true. And it is not the same to tax on a substance in concrete that over a whole field of food much more complex, with diversity of products, with elasticity, at very different prices and with substitutes that can be found, of those products, very different. And, therefore, it's much more complex to face a different tax than what we've been dealing with with the sugary drunks tax. This does not mean that we do not do it, that we do not have to pull through this line, that we do not have to explore tax measures in this line either, but we do not have to abandon the other, that they are also measures to change these habits but in the sense of promoting another type of product. And, therefore, to the own competitions and tenders that must also be made from the Health Department... To the expedient machines, for example, that we find ourselves in hospitals – hospitals are centers of health and sure that many of you and many of you have found that it hurts your eyes to see certain products in these expedient machines of hospitals – so, as a minimum, that 50_percent of the products we find in the expedient machines of hospitals must be healthy products. And this has to be put in the contests, it has to be the contests, it has to be put in. And that's what we're doing from the Health Department, too. How to also help evaluate in our residential centers – and 453 have been evaluated – aspects about the food and physical activity that is due to the end in the residential centers. More developing – which has consequences – format programs also for all professionals working there. Because we know that this 80_percent of the social determinants of salvation, that they have to see as they live, as it is around, what their access to this healthy diet is, so they will determine a different state of salvation. And that's why we obviously work in a coordinated way with the entire government and we have Pinsap, which is the Interdepartmental Plan for Public Health, which is what we're saying to all policies, aligned with the World Health Organization and now we're starting the local phase. In other words, we have landed from a general inter-departmental phase of working at the level of the Government of Catalonia, we have gone to the regions and now we are starting to work in the local area with the joints. From this Pinsap there is the integral Pla for the promotion of health through physical activity and healthy food, which obviously works specifically with all axes. That there are five different axes, not just health care, that condition this comprehensive plan on physical activity and healthy nutrition, and that are the educative, community, health care, labor relations and also – and we do not neglect – the research area, which will re-donate the necessary evidence to continue to make policies for the better of salvation. And I don't want to start with sanitary rooms because I think when we're talking about rooms and when we're talking about a population of special vulnerability we always have to start with childhood. And, therefore, the educational environment has a lot to say at this stage of life and with programs such as the revision of school menus, which we have been able to review two_ thousand menus from 2016 to 2018 to ensure their good quality, we are also greeting from the schools. Programs like "Fruit and go to schools led by the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, the Department of Education and the Department of Health, in which these three advisors of this Government we were able to go to a school, not for weeks, to talk to the students, to administer the fruit that is being given to all these 1,102 schools that participate in it. Because we see the data: only 14.5 of the children in our country eat at least the three recommended fruit races. And that's very little, a 14,3_per_cent is very little. Therefore, we must also continue on this line. Also in an approach from all possible departments and also clearly continuing with guides and healthy feeding recommendations for childhood in the school stage, for the first childhood, very vulnerable..., and the recent publication also on the Small Changes to eat better, which is directed absolutely to the whole population. And, to that, let's add to it the whole list of recommendations about food and drink dispensers, which are also all over our society, beyond what I've commented before hospitals and this education. There's a lot of scope in which to keep working. And you said to me, when we talked about inequalities... that I'm running out of time now and I want to insist a lot on this Child Obesity Plate that we've been using since the Health Department, I'll leave it to the reply. But it is absolutely important to work from within the Community in these policies of changing healthy habitats. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And bad food, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the return, again, of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.26.0	Counselor, it's been almost three years since that young man. A young man in whom we have already suggested that we should make a nutritional profile for Catalonia about what is a food and what is not a food. A job that we understood to take time, not three years... I'd like you to tell me what you've been up to with respect for this point, because it was essential to deploy after all structural fund changes, to attack the problem in its complexity and with measures that can be effective. For example, measures comply with labelling. And I'm telling you, ever since your own skills, there can be a good example of where you can join businesses and products that you want on this food, food or beet label, if you complete this nutritional profile you know? This may exist, but we need to define this nutritional profile. There are a lot of studies from the same WHO planned to take to make this definition of what he knows and what he doesn't know. Or you can make your own rules on food advertising, go away, to ban advertising of unhealthy foods for children, and that's what you can do – you can do that – from this profile of food without or without food. Or a regulation of which foods can be in the public services and equipment with strength and clarity, not as recommended, not as the card you made... or the council did a year ago at the hospitals and health centres recommending that healthy food is put in the machines, but that this week at the Hospital Vall d'Hebron the machines were still feeling basically industrial bubbles and dark refreshments. Measures such as clearly promoting a public purchase – own skills – only food that complements this nutritional profile, or as inspection, to end up with bad practices that also exist in this sector, or as support for ecological agriculture and proximity. Measures such as levies and taxes not only on sugar beet; as with sugar beet, I think it is quite simple to push the sugar beet with excess sodium or salt; it is, in fact, a much smaller sector. And yes, why not be innovative, and also here begin to create the tax on certain foods with excess sugar. The measures respect the yields that families have so that they can keep the butxaca – as I said before – sufficient resources to ensure a good diet for their children. You, three years after that young man, who already pointed out all these things, see me again explaining the same old measures that Mr. Comín had already given me at that time. Measures that clearly have not had an impact on health, that are not reversing the impact of the great food lobbying on our health, that have not made structural changes enough to guarantee the salvation of the people. You're the greeting counselor. I know he won't have it easy in his own government, and I don't tell him anymore with his company from Junts for Catalonia, but with his own Republican Left company, which three years ago they didn't believe for nothing – Mr. Lluís Salvadó, who was responsible for taxes at the time – the tax on sugary drunks. I suppose you must not have changed the country in the Department of Economics with tax issues, in view of the fact that we now believe that we can introduce new taxes and taxes on unhealthy foods. But, Counselor, it's that you're getting the health department assumptions, and it's that all of us have the salvation of the people. Are you willing to really face up to the big food lobby and what they can be on the side of these big lobbyists in your own government or your own party? Or will it be one more of the many things we've had over the past few years as advisors and advisors or presidents of the Generalitat business-friendly in Catalonia? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.27.0	You finally have the word, to make the reply, the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.28.0	Congresswoman, so yes, we've been working. Catalonia has been working hand in hand with scientific societies to establish a label that can be understood throughout the population. We agree that when you read a product, when you take it, when you turn, when you see those nutritional tables per cent_grams per cookie [[the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United ……]] or by reason..., with that 100-gram standard, you really lose. And, really, on top of that, if you see those banners of what you were talking about, in different galettes, of some scientific society, you also freak out. And that's why we're working because when you're on the label, you're understanding for any person in our country. We have achieved a formula of consensus, which is Nutriscore, that we are once again the spearhead, that it is also a formula that we are bringing to the end of the French State, but we will again touch on the same wall of the Spanish State, that it is not soft, that it is immobile, that it is immobilist and that it is immobilist in absolute all the themes that affect the life of the people and also in this one. And why not talk, too, when we talk about taxes and promoting those products that are healthy, and that is absolutely proven that they are, and that, moreover, they come into the recommendations in the nutritional pyramids, that it is recommended to eat five raisons a day, three raisons a day, etc., and why – why – it turns out that access to these products of the people of less income is almost impossible because they are car products, because they have the same VAT as other products and we will also get back to them. So we also work from here again, and we know that the best policy of salvation – and we agree that – is the struggle against inequalities and the construction of a socially advanced welfare state, and that goes through all the actions that we can do from this government, also from Health, but also from other departments. And that's why we're pushing... and we've already explained it, and we've announced that we're going to push and do, like, in a few weeks, the calculation of a Catalan minimum wage of reference, because there's no one left to carry a healthy diet. Because what I'm saying is, if we don't work in the community, if we keep these social inequalities, like what I find in the Mina CAP when we go to do and we go to present... Precisely in the Mina bar, because that's where the new model of over-prevention of children has to start, so I can get lost. And you said to me, "Maybe you can update them. 35,6_percent of our country's children are overweight. At the mine bar, I no longer speak of excess weights but of obesity, it is a 20_per_cent of obesity; Sarrià-Sant Gervasi has a 2,4_per_cent. The middle of Catalonia is a 10-percent obesity. This is a brutal inequality, so that's where we have to work and put this new model of over-prevention into the market. That is why, from the hands of primary care, we must also make professional arrangements for working from primary care not only for these children, for these children and children but for their surroundings, for their family and for their bars, because without primary care with this community arm we will not get out of it. And that's why we'll start a project with the same trades in the bar to reduce mid-terms, to put fruit where there isn't, where there isn't, in certain stores, and, obviously, to get out of that town's easier access to unhealthy foods, as you say, healthier, sugary, salty, and overcrowded foods. And that's what we're working on and I think we can't stop doing it – I think we can't stop doing it. You ask me if we're brave in this sense and I say yes. I say it, and the more my team knows it, and I say it to everyone: I'm being teased; we're playing the future when we're talking about this 36_percent of children in our country who are overweight and obese, we're playing the future absolutely. And this also particularly affects women. And that is why, since the guaranteed income of citizenship we also supplement non-contributory pensions, which are very low and which affect especially the great women of our country, we are also making policies of salvation, because they can keep in the fridge those yogurts that they lack for their healthy life. And that's why we go to the residences too and look at what menus they have. And that's why we're working from all points of view to make it possible, because we know that chronic diseases are key to taking care of our health, of our people, because the prevention of decompensation is what we need to do from the health care system, because that's why a healthy diet is involved, because that's what we can do from primary care and especially from the infirmary. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And that's all we're working on from health policies. And how did you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.29.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.30.0	...is worried, I say: we will continue to do so. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about job insecurity in the public sector]] [[300-00167/12]] The next question is about job insecurity in the public sector, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Cry. To expose it, has the word the deputy Vidal Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.32.0	Good afternoon. First of all, we should ask ourselves what the significance of the public sector is. The public sector are firefighters, they're midwives, they're teachers, they're teachers, they're educators, they're workers, they're workers, they're public servants. Of course, especially workers, and we are referring to women workers. The public sector is the key piece because we have a fairer society or a society that is permanently unequal. The public sector can be the last dic of patriarchy or, on the contrary, it can be, when there is a dismantling of the public sector, as the double exploitation for the woman, as a woman and as a worker, is expressed in a more intensive way. And the public sector should be at the forefront of policies that reactivate the economy and environmental policies, or, on the contrary, if we do not, maintain what is the climate emergency situation. That said, who are the expressions of job insecurity in the public sector? We want to talk about some commons with the private sector, but we need to talk about four, essentially: lack of stability; lack of sufficient resources for the development of its purpose; already material resources or human resources; lack of action to prevent occupational risks, and loss of rights. If we start with this later, the one that is lost of rights, mirin, a very quick transfer that we think is more readable and that we would not like to remember again: reduction of the average of the 5_percent of the sum of the functions and adjustment of agreements and concerts on the teaching and sanitation, reduction of the day and remuneration of the 15_percent for the acting functions, temporary suspension of the contribution to the pension plans, temporary suspension of the subscription of the completion of the production, paralitzation of the public employment offers, suspension of the temporary suspension of the system of aids to the salaries, suspension of the temporary suspension of the contributions to the pension plans, temporary suspension of the subscription of the completion of the production, paralitzation of the public employment offers, suspension of the execution of the execution of the execution of the temporary orders, suspension of the subscription of the completion of the production, This is reality, a total of fifteen major measures that have affected the pool of public sector workers in the past nine years. Certainly, Mr. Counselor, there is someone who says that there are many public workers; the one who assumed in a passive way also the non-action has been undermining the total number of public workers, which today we have at 5.19_percent of the total number of workers in the country. What does it look like to you? Do these perverse logics of neoliberalism follow, which says that the public sector will still have to learn more about its workers and workers, or do you have another opinion? We must also express that there has obviously been good recovery from these detailed rights; we would not be strict if we did not say so: time flexibility, temporary incapacity, union hours, recovery in good measure, not all, of extraordinary payments. But we must say that there are workers and workers who have not yet recovered their remuneration for the year 2010. We are referring, for example, to workers and workers who are not public sector but, or better said, who are not public workers but who are part of the public sector in an indirect way: those agreed or concerted health care, Mr. Counselor, who saw how 2010 was a 5-percent payoff and are still in this reality. Does anyone in this room imagine what it would be like to be in a lower retributive reality than in 2010? According to the phonetic element to hear precariousness in the public sector: lack of stability. And we will not refer to the multiple formula of temporary contractation, but to another reality: about the workers or I will function that do not have their place of work stable even though they carry more than three years as staff of the Administration. And they don't have it for a very simple element: because the public administration, or the public sector, the public power, has decided not to comply with their obligation to take their seats because it's three years ago and so rules it. Do not explain to us the limitations of the Spanish State, which we also know. Some data. The interinitiation level of autonomous departments and entities of the Government of Catalonia: interinitiation around 45_per_cent. Some other data: upper body, 70_per_cent of interinitiation. Official data of 31 December 2017. And look, counselor, if we were to degenerate these data from inters, we'd find 37,000 inters; women, over 27,000, men, 10,000. Therefore, the interinitiation that is tripled in the assumption of women to men. Precaracy and patriarchy always go hand in hand. We therefore need calls to respond to these workers who carry more than three years of structural work to public administration. And, if not, Mr Councillor, you have to tell us how you will compliment this petition that even you see the institutions of the European Union, in which we do not trust, but that they tell them to lower the temporality to an 8_percent of the public sector. There are, of course, a majority of sectors that have been asked for a call for seats, and some specific sector that was asked for it in an express way, which is that of social workers. The summons was suspended. It was the only sector that didn't ask for it that way. We are clear that surely the advisor must have an absolute knowledge of how the ACTIC certificate is now rated, the one that allows us to recognize technological skills, but we would like to know what you know about this call. Can you explain what's going on and what's going to happen to this? And we also want to insist, because this subgroup is concerned about the process of stabilising the public sector. Four humble Members made a statement in a motion on job insecurity to facilitate the application of Article 61.6 of the EBP, and, therefore, specific calls for those workers who are older and older in the public sector. We were surprised that one of the most responsible for his department to the MEPAGC stated that that was unconstitutional. Are you, Mr. Counselor, also becoming President of the Constitutional Court and advancing what is unconstitutional or has another criterion? After that, he said he would request a report from the Central Judicial Cabinet of the Government of Catalonia. The third great block of precariousness that we do not want to forget, the prevention of occupational risks, which should be sufficient and global. A redundant curiosity: you created a preventative thing 20 years ago and the half of this thing is interesting, it's temporal. It is curious that those who have to go for the prevention of occupational risks are also in a situation of precariousness. They have two outsourced modes. Will this be or will it continue to feel its pattern? And respect the preventive audits, tell us the representatives of the workers and the workers who made two in the last two years. We want to believe that there is some data that is not entirely correct. If not, we ask the councillor to confirm if this has been so, that only two preventive audits have been carried out in the past two years. And lastly – and it will not give us time as to what is the fourth factor of labor precariousness to the public sector, the lack of resources, to refer to - there in full extent, but we do want to make some reference to subsectors –, lack of material and human means. On non-university education, we ask them to recover..., or a return to school hours before retail, which increases support plants to the centers. To sanitation, to improve the stability of the contract and to make more contract. They tell us everything... and we know that they signed an agreement with the workers' representatives and representatives, but at the same time they are saying that it is insufficient. And we say: do we have to keep in reality how the business committee of the Hospital Moisès Broggi informs us, that the emergencies are absolutely col·lapsed? Sanitary transport SEM. We made them a specific motion of respect. Will they compliment this young man? Will the appropriate collection of the SEM be carried out? Also, for another gang, firefighters or firefighters. Nor with the one-hundred-and-fifty promotion is enough, Counselor. And you know perfectly well or you should know that we have a necessary operative material that is old, obsolete or spaced. Workers and workers of the DGAIA, who come to denounce some conditions in which temporality is the norm and perilousness in their work. Or, in the same circumstances, the workers and workers of juvenile justice and prison centres. We also want to ask you another question, Mr. Counsellor: indirect relationship but responsibility of the Administration in a broad sense, on the subcontracts of this one. The Vice-President of the Government sees him announcing every week in a different television program, or radio, that sets a minimum reference wage from the table; minimum wages, meaning interprofessional, for collective reference bargaining. Can you assure us that the same minimum wage will be guaranteed for all public administration subcontracts and subcontracts? It would be a simple exercise of coherence: at what they tell private businesses and the unions to do, you do it when you have the condition of an employer. And finally, counselor, a much more global reflection because you see the importance that we give to the public sector and its significance. We will not build, it will be impossible for there to be a republic if we do not have a powerful public sector. Sovereignty passes by to directly manage our resources. But we won't build a republic if we don't give quality services to the commons of the popular classes. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make the reply has the word the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puigneró. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.34.0	Well, very late all and all. President, deputies... god-in-law, huh? Mr. Vidal Aragonès; I think he's struck the question name memory per minute. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'll try to answer them... No, no, it's fine, because I think it's been quite concrete, and I'll try to answer everything I can in the first intervention and, if not, I hope in the reply I can finish it. But allow me first place... you did, too, huh? He took a picture of how you see it, so the public sector. You drew us, so, a very black photograph, huh? , of which is the situation of the public sector in Catalonia. Jo..., I left him with a couple of considerations before he went into the matter. In the first place, as a public administration advisor, before anything else, I would clearly value the work done by the employees of the administration. They're the body and the soul, huh? , of the highest quality of public services in this country. I repeat, today Catalonia has a system... a very high quality in its public services, and that is thanks and above all to its workers and workers. And it's hard for me to know that public workers, especially in this Parliament, are making use of each other as a party-based weapon and as a political ammunition against the government, when what we have to do is to remarry together to improve the working conditions and, of course, of these public workers in our country. We've seen it with payments; with payments we've seen little collaboration and a lot of gesticulation. And I'm not exactly saying that for you, am I? Mr. Aragonès, not for the group you represent. But do you know what the real thing is that today is in the best of the working conditions of public workers? I think you know it perfectly well: this is the Spanish word. Spanish is the toll, in these moments, more because they pay the workers of the Administration of the Government of Catalonia, of its public sector. We're where we're for the systemic focus imposed on the Spanish government, also for what it does to public contract staff. In a free country, with a proper tax system and full public powers, today we don't have to ask permission to hire more doctors or more firefighters or more movers or more social workers; we would simply do that, huh? We could do so, obviously with the only limitation that would be our ability to generate wealth enough to equip ourselves with the public service system that we decide to have. The essence of sovereignty is the main precariousness of the public sector in Catalonia, and I think that you know very well. The high working time in the Administration of the Generality undoubtedly responds to the imposition from the year 2011 of strict limitations to indefinite contracts, mediating the basic state legislation. It has been a common appeal on the part of the General Administration of the State to impose strict effective repositioning fees annually, and this circumstance has entailed lethal consequences for public employment. The vacancies that this legislation prevented it from offering for its stable occupation have had to be covered mostly with interested personnel in order to preserve and guarantee essential public services. Over time, temporaryity grants have inevitably been generated; that is to say, the State has wanted to contain staff expenditure by not allowing vacancies to be filled in a stable way. Because before the disjunctive between leaving the dissatisfied citizens or hiring staff, or that it is temporary, to attend to them, the Government of the Generality has always opted for the second option, to favor the provision of public services to the citizen. This limitation has led to an increase in the temporality rate, it has collaborated in the wrapping of plants, also from the public sector to our home. Now, eight years later, the State has been forced to expedite additional repositioning taxes, the names "stabilization and consolidation taxes, in order to reduce the high temporality rate, today by 36_per_cent, but with the aim of placing it at a maximum of 8_per_cent in the next few years. It is clear that we have a problem of lack of sovereignty so that we can take our decisions. As I have already advanced to the principle of my intervention, once examined the background of the problem, I will try to summarise what we are doing from the Department of Digital Policy and Public Administration to reverse this situation which, I repeat, has generated us by the State centrifuging its deficit. Thus, as soon as the limitations laid down in State legislation were raised, the Government approved an agreement – of 17 October 2017 – to fix the additional rate of stabilization and consolidation of temporary employment in a total of 29,973 places, distributed in three large collections: 15,000 and seat of staff working for non-university teaching staff, 9,300 and seat of statutory health-care staff and 5,000 places of administrative and technical staff working and working. In application of this agreement, we approved, on 20 December 2018, the partial public offer for the stabilization and consolidation of the temporary occupation, according to which 15,018 places of different bones and categories are offered, and, escorted, is the largest ever approved by the Government of Catalonia, this macro-offer of public occupation, a plan that has begun to run and that at the end of the forecast period the selective processes will have been held, and the temporality rate will have significantly decreased, as is the willingness of this Government. So, beyond being a government of insecurity, what we are is a government of stability and consolidation. But it is not only working from my department to improve the working conditions and pay for the workers, but as the government we also have a strong compromise with all its areas. For example, in the area of Bombers, the Government has reached an agreement, this month of 2019, with the most representative trade union organizations of the Bombers Cos, for which the working conditions of this cos have been approved for the period 2019-2022. An increase of 250 places of annual firefighters is envisaged, until an increase of a thousand places in the terms of four years, among other measures. For what Mossos does, there have been two new promotions of access to the body, the first of 466 aspirants; the basic training course for police was completed by June, and it will be distributed across the territory. A new call is also currently under way, which will mean the incorporation of one hundred and fifty new events, with a view to the start of the period of practice on June 2020, among other measures. At first glance, last November, a whole series of actions were agreed to: contracting for many more jobs; improving the conditions of the professionals in the continuous and urgent service; and the Winter Emergency Plan has for the first time had an endowment of 3.2 million in primary care. In the case of the teachers, increment of the teaching staff, of teaching, in 670 endowments; convocation of more than 3,050 new places; the bag of interns, which will be open to the length of the entire course. And I could go on. For what you do to social workers, which you have referred to, look, there will be a meeting this week with the unions at the general table of the employees of the Administration, precisely to deal specifically with this topic. I could go ahead with a few details today. I think because of the work we do at this table and because of the union, if I may, I won't do it. But in any case, let's know that we're dealing with this problem. In summary, we have come to a number of agreements with civil service unions to improve working conditions in the public sector. On the basis of the recent celebration of the Generality Administration's trade union elections, which have led to changes in trade union representation, I have already met with all the unions that have obtained representation, with the aim of first-hand knowledge of their concerns and interests. Since June 2018, we have had more than a dozen agreements with the majority unions; from all of them you could highlight a few that you already know: the agreements that have enabled wage increases for 2018 and 2019, with a maximum maximum wage for the State; the agreement that allows you to perceive the 100_per_cent of wages in the event of temporary incapacity, in all cases and from the first day. What about the return of the foreign payments? I don't think we've talked much in this room. Therefore, tell them that this is a compromise advice from the first day in the recovery of labor rights and the improvement of the working conditions of public workers of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out]] We are compromised and, therefore, we are a government that we are enjoined to return from these rights...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.35.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.36.0	...that many of them we have already done and that we hope that those who are missing – and in the reply I can give it more concretely – we can continue to do it in the next few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the return of Mr Aragonese's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.38.0	Counselor, as you insist so much on this idea that the limits, all of them have the origin, we understand, that you say the Spanish State when it refers to Spain, the first one that we have to remind and transfer to the Vice President when he explained to us the incremental salary agreement of 2019 or 2019..., not even all the possibilities that allowed them by state law, not only could go up to state law, and they decided not to do so. We're not talking about five years ago or two years ago, we're talking about this year, about the pay increments that were agreed for the year 2019. It is also true that we have a whole series of limitations on sovereignty, that this political organization, this subgroup is responsible for remembering whenever it can. But, look, you're talking about the need and even what we would have a Catalan law of public service; we already have a regulation of the year 97 on public service, and we'd like to know whether or not we'll have it in this legislature, we hope so, because, if not, it would be unfulfilled to what we've been told. But we ask you some more specific questions about what this regulation is going to be, which you do not want to address, at all, the skills we have. Will it develop everything that EBEP – Spanish law – allows, or will it reproduce EBEP and, therefore, not develop those functions that could be its own? And the third question, which you also know and that in this room of plenary we suppose that everyone is not aware: the limitations, which really dictates them is the European Union, the troika. You say that when we are still a republic they will also fail or fail to complete these mandates, those that come back to us from the troika or the European Union. It would be good if we were to say to ourselves: "When we remain a republic, we will not apply these details, because we will not follow the mandates of the European Union or the policies of the troika. We wanted to do it, really not many questions; we had five or six questions – normally, in questions of this type, we make new or given questions. And one of these is essential: 5,19_per_cent, only, are the workers and the public workers; for you, of the total number of jobs, is that enough to have some quality public services? Do you want to pronounce it? Do you want to state that you obviously need a 9, 10_percent of the busy people to have quality public services? Second question we did, and it's essential, Counselor: how do we reduce temporality to 8_per_cent? That's not the CUP's proposal. The CUP proposal would be that it should only be temporary where it covers temporary activities. But to what your esteemed European Union says: 8_percent temporality. How will they do that? After that, we also proposed this logic of "limiting it to the Spanish State. Mirin, we have also asked: will the possibility permitted by Article 61.6 of the EBEP be effective and, therefore, that we make a specific call for those workers who are older and have more antiquity loaned to the public service? Or, beyond that, the fourth transitional provision of the EBEP: workers and workers who do not yet have a stable place and who carry work to the public sector since the year 2005; will it make a specific call for these? This is not that we have to fail to comply with Spanish law or that we have limitations on Spanish law; it is also the same compliment of some of the possibilities that Spanish law allows. And then we move a board to it: it is true that the best example to speak of recovery of rights is not the external payments, as they give us time, first, years later, and then, as you have incomplete agreements, motions for this House, and remain with less importance, but above all pacts with the representatives and representatives of the workers, that this should be unaudited, that a government sign a pact years after recovery from there that is of the workers and the workers, their remunerations, their payments, and ultimately fail to complete their respective agreements. We also asked him about the prevention of occupational risks. It may seem that this in the Public Administration does not matter, but it does matter very much. What is their model of prevention of occupational risks and what policies will make effective? And then we don't agree with the fact that she doesn't give us explanations about social workers because they're about to meet with the unions. He can give us a general explanation of what his model is, which is what we've been asking for for a long time. And the last or last idea that for us is essential: it is not only necessary to sign certain agreements with workers' representatives and workers; it is necessary to listen and complement what the workers' representatives say, which is the repositioning of absolute rights. Do not simply sign agreements that do not resolve the problems of public services.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. I have the word, for the reply, the councillor, Mr. Jordi Puignero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.40.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. I will look now to answer some of the more concrete questions you asked me about respect. Catalan law of public office. We have a government plan; therefore, our will, of course, is to give compliments to this plan, and I hope, eh? , that this law, therefore, when we process it here in Parliament, this allows to generate the consensus sufficient to make a good law of the Catalan public function for the years to come. I don't think it's gonna be easy, huh? Because it's likely that there are different positions about how to deal with it, say, this law, but anyway I think we should try, and therefore, it's the government's will, as we carry it in the plan of government, to push it. Second of all, you also spoke about the subject of audits. Obviously, I don't have the key to the audits of the past 20 years, huh? What I can tell you is that in the last eight years we haven't done one every four years, which is what we thought, so it was the periodicity with which it was enough to do them. If this period isn't enough anyway we'll check it out, huh? But we understood that an audit every four years in the field of occupational risk prevention seemed sufficient to us, but we are willing to talk about doing more, if that is considered. After you have also spoken about the number of workers at these times in the Administration and if they are to be more, they must be less, etcetera, and if the percentage that at these times, therefore, we have the Generality is enough to cover what must be a public service of quality. I think the question is wrong, huh? , from that perspective. I think that measuring what public service is by the name of workers, taking into account that we have to start thinking about what this administration of the future should be like... and you talk a lot about rights, obviously, important, huh? ,rights that have been lost long ago and that we're trying a lot of them to get back,rights around the pay field,rights related to the work field,huh? , therefore, in the case of the Administration, working hours, working conditions, etcetera. But you don't talk about the rights of the future, do you? I believe that we must also begin to lay down which will be the right ones in the nine forms of work also in the Administration, which will come yes or yes. I think that here, when we begin to set up the administration of the 21st century, that it contemplates these new forms of work, that they also begin to be close to the present, we have, for example, to start thinking, so, what does the impulse of teletreball mean, huh? Here I am already advancing that we are working on a decree to boost teletreball to the Generalitat. And I think that this is better and that it is better to have instruments that improve the conditions of our workers in the 21st century. But also, for example, in the field... this teletreball can allow a better reconciliation, can it allow to improve, eh? , in many aspects of the field of work. But also adjust to the hourly reform. Or, for example, in areas such as enabling coworking spaces. Or the right to digital disconnection, which he didn't talk about. I thought that today we are also bringing fears or more modern rights that I think we have also to put or start to put on the table, that I think they are essential to face this challenge of the Administration of the 21st century. And that is what I relate to before you the name of workers who need an administration, as well as the name of workers who need, in this case, a company. Each time we are also seeing that technology is beginning to have an important role in which many of the services and processes that we provide in a field of administration or in the field of service provision, so it is not essential to do specifically in the field, or to contemplate in the field of human resources, but it is possible to contemplate other forms that help to provide an inclusive service of better quality. What do I mean by that? That it's a trick question, the one you're asking. We cannot measure in this sense how the administration of the 21st century should be based only on the parameter of how many workers it must have. I believe that the xifra of workers must be accompanied by a reflection of what these parameters of this digital administration also mean, but also effective, that we are working in the face of our own years, contemplating all those elements that I have just contemplated, also right, like the right to digital disconnection, which I think is an area in which the government is also pushing, as other areas, as I have said, teletreball and other initiatives, which will make the Generality, the Administration of the Generality, a referent administration. And here is the project of the administrative district, in which we will concentrate much of the Generality's services on these very years, we want the model to follow precisely from this administration of the 21st century. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the Catalan Charter for Rights and Digital Responsibility]] [[300-00169/12]] The sixth item on the agenda is: Question to the Government on the Catalan Charter for Rights and Digital Responsibilities, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. For the presentation, the word "Mrs. Gemma Geis".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.42.0	Well; good late, president, advisors, advisors, advisor Puigneró, also Joana Barbany, director general of Digital Society, the secretary general of Public Service. We want to make this inquiry to the councilman Puignero withdraw from the approval, a few weeks ago, of the Catalan Charter for Digital Rights and Responsibility. This parliamentary group, Together for Catalonia, was born after October 1, and has always defended and will defend the need to guarantee civil and political rights. But it also calls on us to defend political, civil rights, but social, economic, environmental rights, the rights of the most vulnerable groups. Why? Because we have a deep respect for the will of progress of Catalan society, its maturity and decision-making capacity, especially after '1 October. It will not surprise you, Members and Members, if I tell you that at the length of our history Catalonia has been on the front line in so many files. Two very different examples. In the field of law, Catalonia has a civil right that began to be compiled in the middle of the 13th century. The book of the Consulate of the Sea, a masterpiece of the medieval maritime law that has become the basis of the commercial naval legislation of numerous countries until now, stands out. An example, for example, was 2001; Wikipedia was born. MPs and MPs, do you know what the second language was, after the English, in keeping with it? The català. At present, it has more than six-hundred_ thousand searchable articles that come from the values of cooperation, the work in the network, gratuity, sharing knowledge, culture, improving, transforming, this social facet that Wikipedia has. Therefore, from two very different examples, from the Book of the Consulate of the Sea to Wikipedia..., they pose on the table the differential fact of the Catalan society of the will of progress and to join the most transformative initiatives. And here's where the Catalan Charter is for the rights and digital responsibilities, because it's not produced for itself, it's produced because there's an associate structure, some companies, some entrepreneurs, some entrepreneurs, who want to lead this digital transformation. And that's not random, but there's a commitment to the digital revolution of Catalan society. That is why, Counsellor Puignero, we want to ask you how this letter was born, whether it was born with the participation of the company, from low to high, also led by a government with a specific consultancy of digital themes. This letter forms part of the ideal of freedom, with a society and a government that advances, that orders, that guarantees, that progresses, that debates, that votes, that sails, that shares, that creates programs, that is related to the world. That's why we ask him: this card..., because this card presents a few rights..., you now refer to the rights of the future, this card poses a few reptes, the digital reptes, becoming a card, so that it poses rights and responsibilities in areas such as universal access to the internet, change in governance with its impact on digital transformation, right to freedom of expression, cybersecurity or privacy on the web. Today we are 23 July and the conference that was made by the father of the free programmer, in Richard Stallman, that was made in Barcelona on April 2008 and we were talking about free software and human rights. The violation of human rights, as well as digital rights, was a reality that we saw the Catalans and Catalans who went to vote "yes or "not October 1. Yes, because, deputies and deputies, Catalonia in the last quarter of 2017 suffered a real state of digital setup. The Spanish State, through its police and the Civil Guard, attacked the information systems of the Generality to avoid the celebration of the referendum, which also happened on 9 November. But the computer attacks did not just focus on avoiding the exercise of democracy, but, as a result, affected and destroyed the website of the Meteorological Service of Catalonia, the electronic reception or access to the clinical records of the patients of the health system. These attacks violated the fundamental rights, they closed more than one hundred and forty pages related to the reference. This point is, let's say, absolutely serious, because the violation of digital rights is a violation of phone rights. When the State attacks and closes informative web pages, what it does is violate a phone book. When the state blocks access to clinical records, that's violating a phone law. And when the State prevents access to the electronic reception, that does is violate a phone right. And that's why the government creates and has to provide the citizen with guarantee protection tools. At this point, in relation to the letter, also to outline, and to elaborate, the report of the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression of the Council of Human Rights of United Nations, of May 16, 2011. It is considered that the use of web page blocking technologies on the part of the State is incomplete with its..., often its obligation to guarantee the right of freedom of expression, since the conditions justifying the blockade are not established by law and therefore arbitrariness. And this is what we saw: the State and the Spanish government acted with arbitrariness, violated digital rights. Therefore, the states..., end this report, establish that they must take appropriate measures to investigate and address these cyberattacks to address violations of digital rights. Beyond the advent of Catalonia, the Internet has become an indispensable instrument for exercising different human rights to fight against inequality, so, for example, with access to the Internet, for an access that I did not believe to be unequal between citizens first and second..., conditions of citizenship first and second, or well territorial imbalances between citizens living in Barcelona or citizens living in any of the places in Catalonia. Therefore, this instrument, the Internet, makes the State..., in this case it is not possible, but we do have a government that governs and, therefore, plant effective instruments. And this universal Internet access must be a priority. So, we see that this..., and that's why we want to ask, this letter that sets out are rights and dues, responsibilities, and we think that we need to approach these threads of what the internet represents. Digital rights, as they were many other rights before, are part of the political agenda of governments and Parliament, and that is why we have asked this question, because we will be on the side of the government to keep moving forward. And this was also one of the other questions that we wanted to ask: this letter, which presents a methodology, some reports, a very concrete rigour, which are the next steps and how we can help from the Parliament of Catalonia because this innovative letter can advance and, therefore, these new rights, the fruit of this new society, such as digital rights, and at another time they were from another type of right, we can help to continue transforming from the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the reply, the word has the counselor Mr. Jordi Puignero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.44.0	Well, thank you, President. Congresswoman, very late. Look, the internet has transformed our lives, it has also transformed the industry, it is transforming the services and, in fact, it has done this only in twenty-five years, it has done it with an impressive speed. The very thing that will transform, in my opinion, is the governance of democracy, understanding how we have so far exercised politics. The events that took place late in 2017, but we could also talk about the events that took place around November 9, 2014, have filled the need to open a process of reflection on the rights and responsibilities of the new digital age. As the honourable Member has quite rightly explained, Catalonia has presented its first letter, in fact, yet, say, it is a version 1.0 of the letter, this is here, a letter of rights and digital responsibilities, a fact which, in my view, places us at the forefront not only of the nations ahead in the digital sphere, but also, and more importantly, at the forefront of the democratic and more advanced nations. It is a project of open social innovation and in constant construction. The development of the card has been a way that we were going to start learning from the existing world-wide initiatives for the definition of codes of ethics and systems of rights in the digital sphere. From the initial process, led by the department, the Department of Digital Policy and Public Administration, this first proposal has been drawn up with a group of two hundred and fifty professionals from various fields and sectors of civil society, entities, enterprises, organizations, research centres, the legal world and also the same Administration. The card backs people's rights in their digital version, new and emerging digital rights, and 21st century rights. The proposal brings them together in the following areas. The first of them, in the field of access, universal access to the internet; an access that follows, as I said universal, equity, non-discriminatory and quality in order to avoid the digital eclectic. A _second environment, which is the model of internet governance, whether we want it or pretend to be open, inclusive and multi-stakeholder; Internet governance requires a democratic structure, with an empowered citizenry. The third is freedom of expression and information. This is not a new right, but we need to adapt it to the internet, for a free internet of censorship. The rights to freedom of expression and information must be firmly defended in the digital field as well as in non-digital space, as we try to do. The following is the example of digital innovation, creation, access and distribution of knowledge. Everyone has to have the right to generate, distribute and share digital knowledge; also the right to innovate in the different areas of the digital society. The following is the example of data protection and the deprivation of information. Whenever you access and use open data that are of public interest to promote open innovation, investigation and democratic knowledge, it will guarantee the right to privacy of people. This requires a context of personal sovereignty over data, about own data, where for design is defense the privacy of people and transparency of institutions. Also, and this is a new issue, we need to ensure digital literacy and inclusion. Companies have the right and responsibility to educate and educate themselves about and mediate digital technologies, both the internet and artificial intelligence, and about the rights and new social, economic and cultural structures of the digital age. Social collections requiring special attention and protection have the right to enjoy equal access to a digital, competent, secure and specialized teaching. Children and young people have the right and the responsibility to lead the transition towards a fully digital society; consequently, they have the right and the responsibility to train in technological knowledge that allows them to make the role of change agents that traditionally correspond to younger generations and that accentuates our age. The set eix, that of ethics in the use of artificial intelligence and algorithms. Today it is important to know who and above all how they will manage the algorithms that will govern our lives. This is a very important and very transcendent environment. And finally, the mechanisms for safeguarding digital rights. Thus, public bodies must establish public mechanisms to safeguard citizens' rights in the use of technological developments that guarantee universal and effective access to effective, efficient, free, rapid-response systems and mechanisms for resolving conflicts that compensate for the economic, geo-graphic and logistical differences presented by people who are consumers and users of technological development in front of developers and technological corporations. We are presenting, therefore, this week, or fifteen days ago, what we could consider as the fundamental rights in the digital age with the will to inspire future changes in European states or regulations, and, therefore, a _marc that inspires and applies in what are to be the new fundamental rights. In fact, without going any further, Mr. Pedro Sánchez yesterday at his investiture announced that in his term of office, if he is finally chosen president, then one of his initiatives will be precisely to push a letter of rights and digital responsibilities. Celebrate it. We celebrate it because, obviously, if we look at what has happened in the Spanish State these past few years, then we actually have a letter, we see digital repression..., that there has been a lot of talk; there has been a lot of talk about the police and judicial repression that we have experienced in the Spanish State a long time ago, but there has been a lot of talk about digital repression. So, welcome to this card if it's to make things like what happened never happen again. I am convinced that if we redraft the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which is 1948, all these rights will be collected. Therefore, we are contributing to the general debate with an international vocation, so the Government is constituting the international advisory board, a group composed of international reference persons and digital rights defenders who will help to complete the card with their contributions. Now what we've done has done Catalan work, huh? , from the strictly professional field, therefore, with recognizable people who have worked in this field. I want to thank, in this case, more than 250 people who have participated in the debate and in the elaboration of this first proposal of the letter. Thanks, too, so, for the compromise, huh? , in defense of these digital rights in Catalonia. Thank you for the great work and for the same debate that this has generated in the si of this group. And also thanks for helping to place Catalonia at the forefront of phone rights in the Internet era. Obviously our purpose is that this is not left here and that, therefore, we can also translate in this Parliament the way we think best so that we can convince digital rights, phone rights in the Internet, that they are also preserved. What the Government has presented, therefore, is a first proposal for a letter, an initiative that pretends to be alive and dynamic, and with a regulatory and contribution vocation to the global debate. I invite you, therefore, Members of Parliament, to participate in it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word for the Member's reply... [[Gemma Geis and Carreras give up using the word.]] [[Question to the Government on the strategic platform for women's policies]] [[300-00168/12]] The next item is the question to the Government on the strategic platform of women's policies presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. You have the word, for the presentation, Mrs. Anna Geli.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.46.0	Councillor, councillor, deputies, deputies, parliamentary staff, good afternoon to everyone. Today we are talking about women and today we are talking about male violence, and that we do not do more than March 8th or November 25th, International Day against Violence against Women, must give us hope. Hope does not mean that we have the solution to the problem; hope means that the problem is above the table and that we want to solve it with the complicity and co-responsibility of all of us, because every five hours and half there is a complaint for violation. They felt good: every five hours and half. By the time you're here, there'll be a rape complaint. For this reason, for our daughters, mothers, widows or Germans who have survived barbarism, we must eliminate this social chakra that is male violence, because today we women no longer have to talk and fight together, and we must fight against patriarchy from the cross-cutting. We will only get it from the strictest sorority, from the Catalan Institute of Donations, from the National Council of Donations, all associations, entities, administrations, Government and Parliament, and we will do it, more, with men. We need this cross-cutting approach to address rapes from all fronts, developing genera policies to deconstruct patriarchy. Look at the depth of the problem with only two data. The line of attention of women in situations of male violence, 900 900 120, has recorded in Catalonia a half of almost five hundred tricks per month; the majority denounce physical and psychological rape and are girls for the same victim. The portal Feminicidios.net reports fifty-two feminicides to the Spanish State, including Catalonia, throughout 2019; a figure that everyone knows is not definitive or real, because the statisticians do not count the deaths indirectly associated with masculinism; examples of seas murdered for their children, children victimized by the pairs of their seas or children left orphaned by seas that have been murdered. Feminism is constantly attacked because it overwhelms power structures, which are essentially thought and executed from the patriarchate of the past. That's why we're doing so much for them. In fact, as early as 1791 it was manifested that feminism was a question of universal rights and deures..., human rights–forgived– and universal. In revolutionary France, Occitan Olympus de Gouges wrote the famous manifesto Les droits de la femme in a misogynist world, as a reaction to the declaration only of the rights of men and of the city. The manifesto began with the phrase: "Home, are you able to be just? A woman asks you this question. And today from Juntes to Catalunya, we ask the question and place it in this question about the strategic platform of women's policies 2019-2022, which two weeks ago Councilwoman Budó presented us to the Commission of Igualtat, and because we believe that only insisting on concrete actions achieves the objectives. And that's why we congratulate each other. We congratulate ourselves on the 72_million_i_mig € investment announced that it must allow as a minimum to give better compliment to the Law 17/2015 and to the 5/2008. But we also want the government to continue to dig deeper into this strategic axis of the six axes. With the first example, the government must promote co-education and the promotion of equal values and models because we are living in an advanced society. We must end the cultural stereotypes of gender through education based on equality and knowledge of others through affective sexuality. A study by the University of the Balearic Islands warns that access to pornography advances in eight years; it talks about pornography and new consumption, and in its hypothesis it relates this imposed sexuality of patriarchy to this type of pornographic industry that only responds to aggressive economic interests. If at this premature age of pornographic consumption, we add the Enquiry about ICT usage in the world during 2018, we have the Molotov cocktail, since I almost 80_percent of children and children give to fifteen years use mobile phones constantly and habitually. We can't afford this. For another band, and according to them, he talks about how to address equity in work and co-responsibility in the uses of time. Here the importance of implementing the hourly reform; straightening up time gives us better quality of life, and that is why we need to keep the citizenry aware of the uses of time through the hourly reform of 2025, concretely the Covenant of Hourly Reform of 2025. It is necessary to insist and give tools to women so that the allocation of tasks and responsibilities in all spheres and vital situations does not always fall on us: you will marry, motherhood, the work of the llar, the care of people. According to data from 2017, in the professional training studies of Catalonia almost 30_percent of young people learn training linked to sociocultural services and the community; young people are only 4_percent. This is a product of patriarchy, and we can't afford it. The third axis of the plan directly addresses the prevention and eradication of male violence. There is certainly a need for more resources and coordination mechanisms for the comprehensive recovery and care of women who suffer or have suffered male violence and their dependent children. But when and where are these masculinist rapes produced? So it happens all the time and all the time, and, according to the Interior Council, one of every five sexual assaults are or have been around the night, especially accentuated by the phenomenon of mass rape, as is the case with La Manada. We can't afford any more cases, and this follows the Feminicides.net portal where we carry from year to Spain there have been thirty-four cases of group violations. Too many rapes and too many group rapes. We have to stop and we have to give more and better attention to women at the time of the complaints, but we also need to avoid being able to find the aggressor or having to go through more than one trial without the necessary follow-up. For the prevention and eradication of gender-based violence, at the beginning of this legislature, the Protocol against Sexual Violence was launched in the vicinity of the oci, which provides for the formation of more than thirty thousand people and the establishment of protocols in order to act professionally. You won't have enough of this. That's why we have to insist that no more victims and revictimizes the assaulted or murdered girlfriend one time or another; the only culprit is the aggressor, he, or they, and no one else, and we all have to eradicate him. To end patriarchy, to end also the glass floor and the hooked earth, two concepts related to eix 4, on political participation, to promote the presence of women in especially masculinized surroundings and to establish mechanisms of parity using systems such as that of the zip lists, in the case of political formations, and for all this the plan of government also addresses the visibility of women in non-sexist communication. I'll give you an example that shows the androcentric look of our society. Last week we celebrated the anniversary of the arrival at the Moon of the Apollo 11 mission. Almost everyone heard about Neil Armstrong, but hardly anyone knows Margaret Hamilton, and today I'm saying, with the advisor of..., that he himself did a tweet in this sense. He climbed the Moon, but she directed the entire navigation program and made transcendental decisions, which precisely allowed the coet to land. I, on the other hand, she doesn't even know you, does she? This is just an example of the look of our society, but it is also an example of hope. And, as I said to the principle, therefore, we hope that the enrolment of women in technical careers will increase in the next few years. We hope that our Government will incorporate the perspective of generating in public policies. And we want to turn this hope into reality because one day we have more gifts to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and one day we don't want the Catalan Observers of Justice in Male Violence and one day the Civil Code of Catalonia has been deleted for all male expressions. And we'll soon have the rural and maritime women's council advisor and we'll soon have improved sexual reassignment, to avoid discrimination against women, children and any type of LGBTI-phobic aggression. For this reason, to all those who want to silence us, accomplices and submissives, neither shut up, nor be complicit, nor submissive. We have all hope, and that's why we answer all together. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.47.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.48.0	Thank you very much, President. Very late, deputies, deputies, councillor. Mrs Geli, thank you for this question. An inquiry that, as you said, allows us to talk about these policies of equality, of this struggle against male violence beyond the designated dates, as may be March 8. You explained this in your intervention: last July 9 was approved the Strategic Platform for Gender Equality Policies 2019-2022, and that same late I was able to present it to the Commission for the Equality of Persons, here, of the Parliament of Catalonia. I would like to point out, in a very special way, that this strategic plan was previously approved by the Interdepartmental Commission for Effective Equality between Homes and Women, on 9 April 2019, and that it counted on a broad participatory process, with the incorporation of statements from some sixty entities and institutions, and its also fits all the actions proposed for the thirteen departments of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. With the subsequent revision and subsequent validation by a commission of fifteen experts in the different fields of intervention of public policies of gender equality, especially in the fight against male violence. The result of all this work has been that this strategic plan, which includes 21 strategic objectives, 103 operational objectives and 326 actions to deploy their own years, responds to basic instrumental actions: the transversalization of the gender perspective and also the deployment of the Law 17/2015. Accompanying this plan is the economic programming for this year 2019, which is around 72_million euros. This strategic course is the manifestation of the firmness of the Government of Catalonia in continuing and strengthening the struggle for equality of women and men, which, more than ever, persists in the work of the transversality of the gender perspective, also concretely a whole series of actions to promote in the most sensitive areas of government action for which it makes the relaxation of equality between women and men. Mrs Geli, you, in your intervention, have made an enumeration of the six axes by which this plan will be deployed. I'd like to go over those axes. I would like to go over those objectives and some concrete measures, because they are only insisting on concrete actions to achieve the objectives we have proposed. Let's start, then, with the first line: co-education and promotion in equal values and models. Because when we talk about education, we need to make it very clear that we are talking about lifelong education, because our goal is to educate the society together, of all ages, in order to achieve effective equality between women and men. That's the only way we can end cultural and gender stereotypes. We want to educate from all institutions, not just the school, for the real equality of rights and opportunities, putting in value, indistinctly, experience, skills and the social and cultural contribution of women and men. We want, through education, to eliminate the cultural stereotypes of gender, which lead to unequal appreciation of the roles that men and women have in the different spheres of life. And we also want to educate in the use of language that is respectful and inclusive. Let's move to the second example, which is fixed in promoting equity in work and co-responsibility in the uses of time. In this respect, I would like to highlight five objectives: actions aimed at promoting and raising awareness of gender equality; initiatives to ensure and improve the employability and occupation of women; measures to support enterprises to develop and implement equality measures and plans; recognition of the value of domestic work and care; and measures to ensure that women's sectors are socially revalued and have the same recognition and the same working conditions as other sectors. In fact, these axes that he now presented, are axes that we could say of promotion, and that answer to a fight in positive, to values and to a firm conviction. I would also like to move on to another axis, which is once again a struggle, but in this case, a struggle, let me hide, which must be of all. This fight that conforms to this third is the prevention and eradication of male violence. « A thousand feminicides; with this headline, a few weeks ago, the journalist Alba Alfageme wrote an article in a diary explaining: a thousand murdered women, the jifra freda of feminicides that there was in the Spanish State since the year 2003, when the official recount of murdered women began for their pairs or exparels. Previously, these crimes were not specifically accounted for and were buried between other homicides. Visibility of them has been the way of finding that intimate feminicide, which means the one that causes women to die at the hands of couples or exparels, is the first deadly cause, with violence, between women. We also wanted to incorporate the Second Comprehensive Intervention Program against Male Violence. The determination in the struggle against masculist violence on the part of the Government is firm and, to this comprehensive intervention program, it is also necessary to add the set of actions of the different departments of the Generality, the result of the state pact against gender-based violence. The Department of Presidency, through the Catalan Institute of Donations, is organizing, also the I International Congress of Male Violence, which will be held this month of October here in Barcelona, directed to professionals of the circuits of male violence, the staff of the public administrations in charge of intervening in the design and execution of public policies with a gender perspective, and also to the Catalan feminist association. These days have seen in audiovisual media and social media the announcement of the awareness campaign« Let's not go through one, which takes place in the actions of the Department of Interior directed to the surroundings of the oci. I believe that the surroundings of the oci mean a priority scope for our action against the masculist struggle, and commitments acquired as recently signed with the case of the Canet Rock festival, signing a protocol against sexual violence in the oci, is a good example of the policy of cooperation, of adding efforts, that we must bring to completion from the Government of the Generality. We have also increased subsidies for social inclusion housing networks, with more social programs for emergency activities prior to social and housing vulnerability, both for women and girls in a situation of male rape. And, as I also announced in the Commission for People's Equality, at this point I take the personal and political commitment to bring to an end the national pact against male violence, and that after the summer, as I also announced, I will start a round of contacts with each of the parliamentary groups, because only between everyone and everyone will advance in the struggle against male violence to eradicate it. Let's go back to the other axes. Fourth: political and social participation and personal and community empowerment of women. As they can prove, this first part of the issue directly questions all of us. Practice by example. Of course we all know this phrase, but we also know that our political organizations still have a long way to go in terms of gender equality. So, well, let's move on. And we continue with the will to strengthen also the autonomy, personal freedom and exercise of full citizenship in an equal democracy. And in the long run, we have three objectives: to promote the balanced participation of women and men in leadership and decision-making positions; to promote women's empowerment in all aspects of life – we are talking about personal, family, work, social, cultural, political, women's empowerment in all spheres of our society – and also to strengthen the presence of women in especially masculinized areas, with actions that promote the presence of women in sectors, occupations and masculinized professions as a result of sexual stereotypes. The fifth is the visibility of women and non-sexist communication. A lot of work to do in this camp, too. In fact, according to a recent survey by the CEO, 60_percent of the citizenry considers that advertising shows a picture of the woman who is not in line with reality. We still have a lot of work to do. This is the transversalization of the gender perspective in public policies. We want to place the effective equality of women and men in the centrality of progress and welfare policies, leading to the construction of an advanced society regarding its civic values. These are the axes, with their lines of action, but finally, let me tell them... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Well, time was running out. Res. That we continue to work with the will to accompany from the government all this paradigm shift of our society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.49.0	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.50.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.51.0	...will advise. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on economic and budgetary policy]] [[300-00170/12]] The next question to the Government is on economic and fiscal policy, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. And the question was made by the deputy José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.52.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, Councillors, Mr Vice-President... Mr Vice-President, today, from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group we are asking you about a basic problem of your office and of the Government of which you are a member. Today we ask him so that we can discuss precisely the absence of economic policy and the absence of budgetary policy of his Government. And we do, I assure you, with great concern. Because talking about economic and budgetary policy in the case of your government, unfortunately, is talking about the null contribution you make to the Catalan economy. And we're not just talking about a zero contribution, we're talking about the negative effects they're having on the Catalan economy. We are talking about the negative effects on businesses, and we are also talking about the negative effects on employment. The raw reality – and so all the serious economic studies that have been carried out – are that your independenceist government – and this is the key, because it happens in all the governments that embrace nationalisms – has become a burden, a backpack, a huge slab that our economy has to bear and that harms the competitiveness of Catalan companies. That burden is based on two elements that you encourage. Elements, both, which negatively affect any economic decision. I am talking about legal uncertainty and political instability. All nationalisms, from an economic point of view, with their obsession with raising a border and their obsession with expelling part of the demos of a democracy, and with that obsession with giving a new passport to part of the citizens with whom they share political space, cause legal uncertainty. And it becomes a real risk premium for the economy; it becomes, therefore, a burden, a burden that harms society as much, because the fracture, divides it and confronts it around a theme that unties, as well as the economy, because it ends up weakening it, as it does any risk premium. A region with legal instability is an unattractive region for investment, and we are seeing it quarterly, when foreign investment data are published. And it is a terrible scenario for companies; we have already seen the flight of more than five thousand companies from Catalonia. And you are the only culprits and those responsible for this situation, and of course your'return to iron' does not indicate that things are going to change. They don't tell us that, they tell us the opposite, they tell us they're going to get worse. And that's why we're worried. We already know that they harm the economy, that they do not add up, because they create legal uncertainty. But are they good managers? That would be the next question. Look, one of your government's key solvency indicators is the quality of your debt. This rating indicates whether the management they make of public resources can consider good management, from a financial point of view and, therefore, whether it deserves the confidence of third parties or, on the contrary, it highlights the mismanagement carried out over the years. Well, its management has led to the Catalan public debt having a rating below, even, the garbage bond, that is, no one wants it. Catalonia is the autonomous community with the highest volume of public debt, above the 77,500_million_of_euros, and that is an objective indicator of its poor management. The Catalan public debt is the one with the worst rating of all the autonomous communities of Spain. And that is why they depend on the solidarity of the funds with which the whole of Spain has been endowed, they depend on the Financial Facility Fund. But the most serious thing is that this huge public debt has not been used to make Catalans have better public services. The reality is that we have the longest waiting lists of health, we have the longest waiting lists in dependence, we are the autonomous community with more children who have to study in barracks. Over these years, inequalities in Catalonia have increased, young people at risk of social exclusion have increased, child poverty has increased, despite the favourable tail winds of the economy in recent years. In 2018, according to data from Idescat itself, we have a higher percentage of children under the age of sixteen at risk of exclusion from poverty than we had in 2016. And all these results of their mismanagement are even more serious considering that Catalonia is the autonomous community with the highest fiscal pressure in all of Spain, it is the autonomous community where the most taxes pay the middle and working class, and it is the autonomous community where the cost of living is highest. In other words, all they do is feed legal insecurity, feed social breakdown, without dedicating themselves to managing the real problems of Catalans. The parliamentary group that I represent makes hundreds of management proposals, makes them in each committee, makes them in each plenary, we make them in the specific plenary that we have promoted today, and they all fall into a broken bag. You are impermeable to good management. That impermeability to good management is the fault that they have not taken advantage of the tailwinds of recent years, and they still fail to realize that the process does not allow them to take advantage of all those opportunities. Mr Vice-President, do you really not realize that you have not used those years to address the structural reforms that our autonomous community needs? And it is that they have made no progress in the essential reform of the Administration. They have made no progress in reducing bureaucracy and administrative burdens. They have not undertaken a single reform to slim down and strengthen the public administration. They've done the opposite. They've set up a chiringuit every day to put their buddies in. Catalonia, Mr Vice-President, needs structural reforms, which should aim to increase the added value of our economy. You have left the competitiveness of the Catalan economy in the hands of job insecurity. Our GDP has grown, of course it has grown, it has grown throughout Spain, but our autonomous community has gone from being the locomotive of the Catalan economy to being part of the queued wagons. Madrid already equals us in terms of GDP, which did not happen until now. Our industry and our tourism were starting from a leadership position, but you and the risk premium of the process are taking care of squandering that advantage. And right now there are autonomous communities that are growing at higher Catalan rates. Do they not really realize that this eternal process is making us lose the leadership we had? Catalonia needs robust and sustainable growth, growth based on the production of new products and services with greater added value, and not one based on precarious employment and low wages. And, if we don't, any increase in consumption and domestic demand ends up favoring imports, which is already happening in 2018. The increase in imports of goods and services has far exceeded that of exports. And this situation can get worse, because as you well know there are clouds on the horizon: we are facing a slowdown, an economic slowdown that you want to combat on the basis of ‘we will return to iron, on the basis of expelling investment and expelling companies. This is the only proposal. Therefore, your bet is not a future bet. Mr Vice-President, it is impossible for you to argue that the process, and ultimately you, has brought something positive to the well-being and progress of the Catalans. They didn't bring anything, they just put sticks on the wheels. We only have to analyse, for example, its budgetary policy, to give us an account of the disaster as well. The first budgetary decision they took clearly defines them. Do you remember what that first decision was? It was not a decision, for obviously social issues; it was to inject 20_million_euros into TV3, to inject into the contingency fund. That was his first budgetary decision, which he has made over the past two years. And it is that, in turn, Mr Vice-President, you have come to the point of abandoning your main political function, which is to be able to present and approve a budget, the budget, in short, which is the tool that a government has to make policy. And they are unable to approve budgets and find support, because everything pollutes their eternal process. And it's that the budget numbers that go against more than half the Catalans, because you rule against more than half the Catalans. And it's numbers and budgets that don't even benefit yours, and you can't budget to go against the citizens, which is what you're trying to do. Mr. Vice President, you know what I'm talking about, you know that in economics inertias are important, and your mismanagement is causing our autonomous community to lose the inertia it had. And when you lose that inertia, it's very hard to recover. Catalonia has a very good economic base, as a result of the efforts of companies and their workers, not precisely this government. But it also has great challenges and threats that stalk. Right now you and your process have become the main threat. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.53.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.54.0	Thank you very much, President. My honourable Member, his intervention, and I find it hard to say, has been a retreat of topics, common places and ideological prejudices towards this government, and I believe that they clearly demonstrate, especially when you spoke of nationalism, that you ended up clearly demonstrating to what four days ago one of the founders of Ciutadans denounced, that Ciutadans has derived from Spanish nationalism, from which they refuse, but that they practice altogether. I said Francesc de Carreras a few days ago. Therefore, of nationalisms, surely, you can give lessons, because you are very great experts. As I say, he has made a full intervention of topics that contrast with reality, and contrast with the reality that we have carried a whole series of years growing over Spanish medium, growing over 3_percent of the gross domestic product. The gross domestic product, the past year, grew a 2.6_per_cent. The Catalan economy is an open economy, an economy in which it relates to the outside world, not only with exports and imports of goods, but also with the provision of services, makes it an economy that is an advanced indicator of the conjunct of the Spanish economy. Because when there is an economic recovery beginning, as it was the fourth quarter of 2013, it is produced first in Catalonia and then it is produced to the rest of the State, precisely because of the opening character outside the Catalan economy. And on the upside: when there is a process of easing the world economy, and especially the European economy, therefore, in Catalonia, precisely because of its external opening, it is known before that to the rest of the State. In any case, therefore, we are in a growing situation that practically doubles the eurozone average and, therefore, we are on a path of a stable economy that grows around 2_per_cent. We're growing up with a very different boss before the economic crisis. Before the economic crisis, fundamentally, was domestic demand and much focused on the construction sector. At these times all sectors of the economy contribute to growth, with one exception, which is the primary sector, the agricultural sector, in which the contribution of some years, depending on the evolution of world market prices, is a positive contribution, in others a small negative contribution. But, in any case, the combination of sectors makes a positive contribution to the economy. You've done a whole series, as you said, of harm, basically, so, thinking that the Catalan economy and this government are like you, they're nationalists who take the nationalist raons before the common sense and what are the rights of the citizenry. And they do it all the time talking to true myths. Sometimes it doesn't mean lies, it just gives truth to myths is already misinformed, it's already intoxicating what public opinion is. And you talked about the first presuppositional decision of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, which was a contribution to the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, but you don't tell the whole truth: that it was to pay a change of criteria to VAT. I don't know if you're proposing that the public authorities of the Government of Catalonia don't pay taxes, or they don't pay the taxes that they pay, or when some courts say so, or when there's a change in tax criteria. I believe that we must face up to tax obligations, and that we must be the first to set an example. And you know perfectly well that you're not just on TV3, but also on the set of public televisions like ours. And I'm looking now, if not, what happened to Canal Sur, now that you're ruling from Vox's hand and the PP to the Junta de Andalucia. They see that the same thing happened, that the VAT criteria changed, the contributions made by the Public Administration in its media and that, therefore, they had to pay more. So we, in the accounts of doing a breakdown of work places on TV3 or Catalunya Radio, which may be what would please you, because you have allergy– and do so with the head – to public communication media, so we thought it was necessary to deal with tax obligations without having to cut work places. This is one of the true myths he said. Other true myths. You have made reference to what the financial management of the Government of Catalonia is. The finances of the Government of Catalonia last year completed the three budgetary targets: the deficit target, the debt target and the expenditure rule. Some objectives that we have not defined ourselves, that the Government of the State has defined them, that we believe are unfair, because they limit the ability to serve citizens correctly, involve a process, therefore, to adjust the expenditure and a content of the expenditure that cannot continue in time. Because this phase of expenditure containment we have already done in our country, we have done it on behalf of the Government of Catalonia. Certainly, the government of the state did not complete these objects, some objects that he had set himself to himself. Therefore, even when he cheats, let's say, posing some very demanding objectives to others and little demanding with himself, the Government of the State does not complete, and I would like to see, therefore, that this demand is so strong before the Government of the State, also the General Administration of the State. Now they have to look for a new secretary of economic policy of their party, I suppose the new one, therefore, will also do so, that, too, will be demanding with the government of the State. You also referred to the finances of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Last year, the social expenditure of the Generalitat de Catalunya, the expenditure running in health, in education, in social protection, equalled the maximum expenditure that ever happened to the Generalitat de Catalunya. In fact, in current expenditure, in salutation, in teaching and in social protection, the year 2018 was the year of the most expense of history, compared to the year 2010, with a difference: 8,000_million euros less deficit. We have recovered the current expenditure by reducing the deficit. And you, who spoke of debt, should know that in the last few years the debt of the Government of Catalonia respects the gross domestic product of Catalonia has declined. It has increased the debt in absolute terms, in number... And, of course, we're still strict. He says: "Catalunya is the autonomous community with the greatest debt. Home, however, one has to do with debt per inhabitant, and we go to look at debt per inhabitant, and in debt per inhabitant we are not first – we are not first, we are –, even if there is some government of some autonomous community where you give parliamentary support. I'll keep an eye on him. Therefore, the debt respects the gross domestic product, the wealth, has been reduced in the later years. And we've done all this by recovering social spending. So when you talk about management, so I put this management on the table. You have certainly put forward proposals, put forward proposals in this Parliament, and do so on a regular basis, with a very large increase in expenditure. No proposal to get the money. Yes, to reduce what you say to chiringuitos, but that they are means of public communication, it is cultural policy, it is linguistic policy in this country..., is to say, to eliminate everything that you ideologically do not like. You often speak of 50_per_cent, but forget that there is only one that we share, obviously with the rest of the Catalan-speaking countries, with the rest of the Catalan-speaking countries, but there is the Catalan language, which is shared in this country and which is the language that is shared here, which we cannot share in Portugal because they do not speak Catalan, need precisely a linguistic policy, a cultural policy that guarantees continuity, maintenance, promotion of the use of this language and of this culture. You'd want to carry this. We will not accept it – we will not accept it. You often talk about "siringuitos, and you are a great political siringuito, let me tell you. In fact, they are a political xiringuite that certain Spanish economic powers have been inflating, inflating, inflating in the later years, because they are, therefore, at their disposal for the following decisions to be taken, right? But now it seems that the summer season of the « Ciutadans political circuit is over, and it seems that the season is over, they lower the blind, the IBEX 35 withdraws the favors and, therefore, you will have to see how they continue with their political project. We will continue to work, we will continue to work in the service of this country. We will bring the assumptions of 2020 into this Parliament; they will be social assumptions, ambitious assumptions, and then the time of truth will come for you too, to see how you are able to square these numbers, in which, for a lot of Catalan language that you want to eliminate, for a lot of media of public communication, for a lot of cultural policy that you want to charge, you will not be able to pay one of the proposals that you bring in this Parliament every two for three and that you do not know how to pay them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.55.0	Thank you, Vice President. To make the answer is the return of the deputy. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.56.0	Thank you, President. Mr Vice-President, I have the feeling that every time I ask you a question at the end you try to ask me. I mean, here we came to hear your proposals, how they manage, how they approve the budgets, what those shortcomings I have raised, all those indicators that you can us..., and yet you've ended up talking about Citizens; it's the only thing you've ended up talking about today. You speak of nationalisms, but here the only one who is firmly nationalist is his 'Spain ens robs'. [[The orator shows an image.]] This has not been me; this has been you, Mr Vice-President. If this is not the most rarity of the most racy nationalism, you will tell me what it is. [[Greetings.]] I've told him about the shortcomings in the public services that Catalans receive, the waiting lists for health care, in dependence, in barracks... There hasn't been any self-criticism either. I would have expected some sort of self-criticism from you and your government. And we know that it does not have the capacity to improve that, because we know that it is unable to approve budgets, because ultimately it does not have autonomous budgets, but rather presents budgets thinking of its nationalism. And so it's very complicated to approve absolutely nothing. I also told him that the middle and working class, a middle and working class that is the one that pays the most taxes in all of Spain..., of that he has told me nothing. That is to say, the rents of up to 33,000 euros are the ones that pay the most taxes, it is the Catalans that have suffered the most from the crisis, and you have not raised any improvement that relieves them. It can reduce those portions of the IRPF, as we have put it. Our group has tabled a bill to be able to debate it and you have made an amendment to the whole of it, so you could put it to the House. In addition, the model of autonomous financing allows it to not start to notice the possible effects that it may have on public coffers at any given time until two years from now, as in other modifications. They would also have enough time, in those two years, to reduce the superfluous costs and duplicities of the Administration and all those chiringuitos, which go beyond what you say about 'our language and 'our TV3, which I remind you that we pay for it among all. But that's not what you've been talking about. And there is also a paradox in this matter. That is, the most paying IRPF is the tranche up to 33,000 euros; however, the tranche of IRPF above 70,000 euros, which is precisely the tranche of high charges, that is below the Spanish average of taxation. I was hoping you'd announce some kind of change about it, some kind of change to give that breath to the middle and working class. I was mainly talking to him about what they would generate, which is legal insecurity. And he hasn't told me about it; he's talked about Citizens again. And I, about legal insecurity, want to talk to you about boycotts, for example, don't I? Once... For example, in recent weeks you have not publicly condemned boycotts to companies promoted by entities related to the process; at least I have not heard it. He has not avoided or condemned the ANC's appeal to boycott for mere ideological sectarianism, making lists of good and bad enterprises, all of them Catalan, just as he made lists of good and bad Catalans. I think that the workers concerned deserve a clear, unequivocal and strong answer from the Economics Councillor, among other things because, as I said before, one of the principles that must govern their political work is to create conditions for the progress and improvement of the well-being of Catalans. It does not come between its functions, of course, causing damage to Catalan companies; it does not come, I understand, between its functions to allow boycotts by related entities. Look, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans we ask you to reflect and take advantage of the next intervention, apart from reminding me of what the Citizens' Party is like, to strongly condemn the boycotts to Catalan companies, which are ultimately the boycotts to workers working in Catalonia. As I was telling you, I asked you to explain and ask you to stop or to stop generating legal uncertainty, and you in your reply have never argued with me or proposed that you change your position. And that position of generating legal uncertainty is hurting the Catalan economy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.57.0	Finally, to make the answer is the return of the Vice President of the Government, Mr Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.58.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, I was surprised you didn't swallow the picture. The day I don't pass it, I'll bring it, huh? In order to be able to take the only image that they could find, after twenty years of political militancy, the only image to try to question the position in favour of social justice, in favour of the independence of the country and in favour of the republican and democratic values that I carry defending in these twenty years of political militancy. They have to go 15 years to find an image, and it's always the same, huh? They're squirming; they'll have to print out a new one. In any case, I'm making some specifics to what you said. Dams. This government has, for the first time in many years, presented a plan for the construction of school equipment, twenty-seven pieces of equipment close to their own years, at the cost of what they are already building, and up to fifty more than we would agree with the assemblies, working together with the country. And that's what we do with the assemblies, and so we have the fate that many mayors decide to work with them; of all the political forces, practically all of us, let's say – of all the political forces that have mayors, yes. Secondly, in the area of taxes, you insist that you reduce the IRPF in the first steps. And I don't disagree; I think it should be a proposal from this Parliament. But that's between 300 and 400 million euros. Where are we going with them? What's the reduction? Clearly, you can try to censor everything you don't like done by the Generalitat de Catalunya, but they won't get that money. So, let's say how we can do it, study the proposal... you didn't give me an alternative. Because reducing taxes and trying to increase spending doesn't square – it doesn't square. Therefore, viable proposals must be made. And then there's some demagoguery that I think we should watch when we serve them. Why, of course, do you say: "It's that the tram to this one of the top ranks... Well, and some MP's too, right? It is to say, the tram... Clari, says: "It is that they do not lower..., this do not support it, the tram of the son of the other freighters. And Members of Parliament, like you. So, we can get away with it, we can get away with this magical point, so I think you've spent. Then you sweep concepts. This government is working to ensure a legal security framework, which does not mean that we are in compliance with the constitutional order that applies. That is to say, that it agrees with the legal certainty does not mean that it accepts itself as unchanging the current legal mark that there is. We want to change it, and we want to change it in a profound way. Then we came to a point, I think, in this climate or in this conjuncture of political tension, where the terms of things are reversed, and I think this is dangerous, right? It's like the one who feels offended because there's a certain expression in public space and that attacks his freedom of expression, when what he's precisely chasing is that the other person doesn't say anything, or, for example, inventing a boycott where there isn't – where there isn't. Miri, we may disagree or agree with the political opportunity of the second campaigns, but what the National Assembly of Catalonia has done, to make consumer recommendations to certain companies, is not a boycott; it is like many environmental organizations, for example, that make recommendations to buy products with certain values. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.59.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.60.0	Or when it is done the recommendation of purchase of proximity products, with some proposals of resolution that you have presented in this Parliament. When you come up with a motion for a resolution asking, for example, for the consumption of proximity products in school children – because you have done it, because you have done it – does that mean that you are boycotting the products from outside? No, I mean they make a recommendation. So that's the same thing. And I think we need to be strict. We don't invent boycotts where there isn't. The ANC proposal is not a boycott, it's a recommendation proposal. And if people want to follow him, and if they don't, they don't want to follow him; consumers are free. But there is no list of good and bad, because the list of bad is not there; there is not there. And I think we need to be clear about that. We may disagree as we may agree with the opportunity, but I think we need to be... I mean, we need to tell the truth of things, and in case there's a boycott campaign. We will continue to work, and in the next few weeks we will work for a fundamental aspect against wage inequalities, which is to adapt the minimum wages that exist in this country to the living conditions, at the cost of living of this country. And we can mediate collective bargaining. And that's why we're going to boost Catalonia's minimum wage calculation. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.61.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Question to the Government about institutional loyalty to democracy and the rule of law]] [[300-00171/12]] The next question is about institutional loyalty to democracy and the rule of law. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the honourable Member Mr Ignacio Martín explained the question. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.62.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, today we have an inquiry that specifically addressed a question that has been one of the great problems of these years in Catalonia, which is precisely respect for the state of law, respect for the laws and the brand of coexistence of which we have all endowed ourselves. This is not a discussion that obviously affects Catalonia strictly, but it is a discussion that goes a long way. And that's why I wanted to start with some classics, some phrases that you, Mr. Counselor, sure know perfectly. He said that freedom is the right to do whatever the law allows, and he added that if a city could do what the law forbids, then it would cease to be free, because all the rest of the city would have exactly the same power and, therefore, their freedom would remain absolutely..., without any hint of relevancy. This, obviously, goes for a city, goes for the governors. If a ruler decides that he is over the law and that he can do what the law does not allow, or that the laws prohibit, generates a feeling or a situation..., a real situation of lack of legal certainty that compromises our social contract, ours, in short, our Constitution. Because our Constitution, the Constitution of 78, is our social contract of which we have endowed ourselves with the conjunction of the Spanish citizens after the Franco dictatorship, with the participation, certainly, of all the democratic parties that emerged from the polls of the year 77. The ballot boxes that we can already catalogue as democratic after the Law of Political Reform and, ultimately, what was the front of our Constitution. In this social contract the Catalan participation was fundamental and, therefore, I do not believe that some may claim that there was a lack of original legitimacy but the opposite. And all – all – the political forces, including the name of the Catalan minority, agreed with the idea of sovereignty at the conjunct of the Spanish people. As you know two of the speakers were Mr. Miquel Roca and Mr. Jordi Sole and Tura, the participation of which was enthusiastic and decisive. So, as Montesquiu said, this phrase of the city, that if you could do what the laws forbid you would no longer have freedom, it applies especially, as it did, in the case of the rulers, because the fact that the rulers claim to be over the law that generates, in which it places you, is in a state of imposition of a state of law in the jungle in an autonomous community of a democratic state. I think that's actually a little heard. A few weeks ago, Mr. Torra in his statement before the TSJC for his repeated disobediences to the Central Electoral Board made a..., gave him an answer to the court that would scare me, which is that he said that he disobeyed – effectively, he admitted that he disobeyed – but that he did so because he obeyed a higher mandate. This in real terms in terms of modern democracies, Western democracies after World War II, is a reason that does not look well. There are some countries that are set in the wake of the hurricane precisely because of their lack of respect for the state of law, because of their lack of respect for the principles of political pluralism, freedom, equality and respect for minorities and individual rights as they are, I could give you examples of Hungary of Orbán or Poland, which are regarded as models of illiberal democracy. So this reasoning, the fact of not obeying the law or not obeying the institutions, our legitimate deliberative institutionality because you have a higher mandate, reminds me logically of these other rights and settlements of other times. One question I want to ask you, Counselor, beyond the reflections we can share in this question is: do you really believe that there can be any mandate over the law? In democracy do you think there can be a warrant over the law? Well, I understand that this pseudo-reasoning if it were so, if you tell me that Mr. Torra is actually right, that there is actually a mandate in democracy that is over the law, will understand that this pseudo-reasoning does not only legitimize the separatists who claim to have this mandate, but also whatever comes to the government with a majority of government, and therefore with a majority of the economy and not a structural majority to change the rules of the game, will have the same right to subvert the constitutional order, because it has a higher mandate than he considers to be providential. That's exactly how Mr. Torra presented himself before the High Court of Justice in Catalonia. There can't be... – I'm telling you because I think that this is something that we can share or that we should share for all the Members of this chamber – there can be no democratic mandate without legal employment. Respect for the law is the lowest common denominator that guarantees that our coexistence is developed in the legal freedom and security framework that citizens can legitimately expect from our democratic institutions. If you consider that you are not subject to the law, how can the citizens know what is forbidden or what is allowed? How do you know? You consider: "We are above the law. What's left of it? The rest of us are also over the law or we have to assume the rule of law that is precisely one of the foundational pillars of our legal orders in Spain, such as the democratic state of law, and the rest of the European Union. Could you answer this question: are you over the law? Is anyone else in this room over the law? For the record, just to keep an eye on it. Mr. Torra has told more that he will not accept in any case a judgment that is not absolute and has repeatedly warned that they will do so again. And here comes a series of questions that I would love, Mr. Bosch, that really gave an answer, what exactly is it that they will do again? Are they going to hit our rights and freedoms again as citizens of a democratic state of right? Will the courts again disobey in the event that the Supreme Court's rulings on the late 2017 facts are condemned? Will they try again to liquidate the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy? Will they, in short, try to liquidate Catalonia's constitutional and liberal democracy? I'm saying this because I think it's important for the conjunction of the citizens of Catalonia, and this chamber is the representation of the conjunction of the citizens of Catalonia, which I think they deserve..., the citizens of Catalonia deserve and deserve an answer about this enigmatic "we will do it again. His more immediate past, therefore, has left Catalonia with a race of political instability, legal insecurity, division in and out of Catalan society. In short, his government action has caused stars and the citizens of this community have right to know what his plans are and what that means that they will do again. From this point of view I want to be strict and I want to say to him, I want to propose to him a couple of times: you tell me what it is that they are going to do again and I explain to him what it is that we are going to stop again. We will again stop his claim to overthrow our rights and freedoms as citizens; we will again stop his claim to become strangers to our land; we will again stop his claim to deprive the rest of the Spanish citizens of his right to decide between all of us – also the citizens of Catalonia, of course – on what passes to the conjunction of our country that is Spain. Because yes, Mr. Counsellor, Catalonia is part of Spain and more part of the cultural, sentimental, political heritage of the Spanish citizens. And when Mr. Buch, for example, says that the EMU is operating in a country sees or somehow interprets or implicitly tells us that the rest of the Spaniards when they come to Catalonia are in the country see, I say no. That neither he nor any of you have the right to tell me when I'm in Madrid, that I'm not home, that I'm not in my country, or to tell a madrileny or a Andalusian or a bat that when you see Catalonia is not in your country. Of course they are, and it'll always be like that. In any case, no one has the right to deprive citizens of their rights, no one has the right to destroy the fundamental freedoms of a state of law and, from this point of view, it is what you have done and what you seem to be threatening to do again with your own'we will do again. Certainly, today, Mr. Torra has again insisted on a tweet – which went a long way in the line of what you were saying when he went to the world – which is that Catalonia has right to self-determination, that according to Mr. Torra Catalunya is subject to this right, recognized for the United Nations in his letter of 1945, first as principles and then as it has developed in various resolutions of the General Assembly, 2625 and 1514. A doctrine of United Nations that makes it clear that the only ones who know that this right of self-determination exists are in the case of territories under colonial administration, military oppression, or a systemic violation of human rights. Not to mention the former UN Secretary General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, to ensure what I am saying to him, but I quote literally, textually, what Mr. Ban Ki-moon said in an interview in La Vanguardia in 2015: « Catalunya is not from the category of territories with right to self-determination. Therefore, my question is very clear– and I think that it is very careful considering the adviser who answers this question– is, Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Bosch, can you explain to me what exactly they are based on to say that Catalonia has a right to self-determination? It is clear, counsel, that the relationship of the separatist parties to democracy and international law is clearly better, and we have seen it with recent decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union and also of the European Court of Human Rights, which, in response to an appeal by the President of Parliament, Mrs Forcadell, said that suspending - as the Constitutional Court did - the October 9 plenary called to make or predictably make a declaration of independence was a requirement, an imperative social need for the maintenance of public security, the defence of order and the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. These days, when in one band the European Union is questioning the respect for the state of law that there are countries like Poland and Hungary, it has the feeling that we can only please the Constitutional Court, our belongings to Spain and the European Union that you did not go out with your own with your laws of disconnection, because that was exactly what it was: an il-liberal democracy that did not respect individual rights and citizenship. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.63.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.64.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputy Martin Blanco, well, I thank him, so, his exposure. An exhibition, therefore, with which, therefore, it really is grateful to be able to debate, is it not? You have your arguments; as you can understand, so I will also expose mine. You ask me if we're over the law. So I'm clearly saying no. We're on the side of the right laws. This is our position. [[Widow's remorse.]] At the expense of them... And why do they come together? Doesn't it seem like it's right next to the right laws? It's that I see them laughing, and it seems to me that apart from being a very serious thing, it's something worth fighting for every day. He told me about Montesquieu, and precisely Montesquieu defined this concept very well, when he said: "One thing is not fair because it is you. That makes sense, doesn't it? That's what I'm thinking. Because it's her, this thing doesn't have to be fair. Therefore, it is important that the laws remain just. So... plus I was expanding it, or so I was arguing, wasn't I? , says: "Because the laws also have to obey the fundamental rights, and, besides, they have to combine with popular will, if we want to live in democracy. Therefore, rights and popular will, in addition, can lead to some laws, a legal system that is just. And, of course, that we are pursuing this just legal system, and a legal and constitutional framework that is just for all citizens of Catalonia. Of course we're chasing him. And then he says, "What is it they will do again? So that's it. To fight because the laws are right for the citizen and the citizens of Catalonia. And I have, among other things, the right to decide many things that affect them. You, in your inquiry, talk about the state of law, and the problem is that they talk a lot about the state and the preservation of the state – sometimes, even, obsessive – but they talk a lot about the right, about the rights of the state, that they are the ones who feed those laws that you also talk about so much. Therefore, we also go to the one who is the fundamental rights. He told us Montesquieu, huh? He tells us the common sense, he tells us all the theorists of law and law and constitutionality and democracy, all the moderns from the time of the illustrations to our days. Therefore..., look, for example, a case that I was lucky enough to follow and live in person – you know – very directly, it was the transition to South Africa. Just like the Spanish Transition, huh? It was from a state of unjust laws, from the submission of a majority by the minority, to a state of just laws, and in that case it was hard, especially – if they allow me to be in centers in the case of South Africa – it was focused on a democratizing process that seemed very complicated, almost impossible, didn't it? But in the end, then, he was able to prosper. He was able to prosper, among other things, because they heard... And Nelson Mandela, who is somehow the main figure of this effort that was made in South Africa for a successful transition, said something very clear, and that's that nothing... in freedom, nothing is possible in part. There are no partial freedoms; the freedoms must be full, they must be for everyone. So another time we find ourselves, therefore, with the successful derogation, from democratic conduits and mechanisms..., with the derogation of unjust laws to appeal to the fundamental rights and be able to embrace just laws. That's what they did to South Africa, somehow. If you want to, too, huh? – also – during the Spanish Transition, we believe that incompletely, but the effort was, of course, eh? And at best, of course, we don't discuss it. Therefore, you, as much as you pursue liberalism, the doctrine of liberalism and also democratic liberalism, I imagine, will also know how the continuation of these reflections passes through the reference to Thomas Paine. Thomas Paine, in his moment, wrote The Rights of Man, huh? And there too, coinciding with what Montesquieu commented, he said that the will of the people could not be ignored. You're important. You can't ignore the rights, the fundamental rights. The Rights of Man is said to be Thomas Paine's main work. Nor can I ignore the popular will. They have to add up so they can go looking for a much fairer state of things. In this case, too, later wrote Common Sense, which is a work that develops in a very concrete context, which is that of the independence of the United States. A people, a collector, who wanted to be independent of a crown that they considered to be disrespectful of their phonenal rights. Therefore, look if we can make it, if we want, parallels– look if we can make it. And in the case of Thomas Paine, then, tell them as well that all these reflections, like those of Montesquieu, that we have both quoted, from this two hundred and fifty years ago. And all these principles that are established, that were established at the time, so I have the suspicion that you, in Ciutadans, have not always paid, have not always assimilated it enough. Because, listen, this, the French revolution, the American revolution, passed the fourteen points of Woodrow Wilson. For example, "what is it based on – I ask you – "when do they speak of self-determination? So, look, the fourteen points of Woodrow Wilson, for example. And all this has happened and you haven't heard about it. Listen to me, maybe it's down to the day – maybe it's down to the day – in all of this. In its time, too, seven years ago, the Bar Association of Barcelona, which is supposed to be people who understand something from law, and from right and right also understand something, said something very interesting that goes in this line, when they said that the laws, as they stand, must be promulgated, repealed or modified according to the needs of the popular will and of the speech rights expressed in a periodical and democratic way. It's what I'm telling them, the same one who spoke, so, collectively, the Lawyer's College. There are other examples, for example, right to vote, right to vote; there was no right to vote, then there was. First it wasn't law, then it was law. But it's just, we'd agree that it's always been, just, before. The right to women's suffrage, more than 50 per cent of the population did not have this right to vote. And that was cool. In the year 1931, with the Second Republic, therefore, legality changed. And it applied a fundamental right and it's just; the laws became more just laws. Well, won't you tell me you don't agree with this? Or is it that their liberal feminism does not allow them to appreciate this remarkable evolution in what is the history of women's rights? You're also talking about institutional disloyalty, and that if the "disloyal syringuites, which must be closed... Look, the external action we do is legal and legitimate; it's more, it's necessary. It is so necessary that you, ruling Andalusia, admit it there, and promote it there, and embrace it there. I am not questioning them, nor much less, what you do in Andalusia, with a premise that multiplys by four that of the Catalan delegations, when the delegations of Andalusia are one_quarter, in name, of the Catalans. I don't question them, no way, I celebrate. Of course Andalusia must be able to do its external action. But Catalonia too. Because that which is valid, according to you, to the places where they rule, here it would not be valid. It's necessary. Besides, it's profitable for what I gave them before, and why every public euro of pressupost comes back in investments..., huh? , each public euro invests in promoting economic projects and returns with 95,3_euros in 2017. So, it's profitable. And, listen, outside action is necessary here, in Andalusia and anywhere. All cities in fan, important cities, as at least. The diputations as a fan. Fan companies. I mean, college fans. The fan unions. Why? Because we live in a global world. And, listen, Catalonia is a society – it's a society – that is part of globality, fortunately, and very much. And it would only be lacking that the Government of Catalonia, therefore, could not help and could not assist in this internationalization that is indispensable, because in the world of the 21st century we either internationalize, or we compete in the world, or we don't go out. Therefore, we must do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.65.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] To make the reply, the Member has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.66.0	Yes; thank you, counselor. It is curious that in order to justify its result of the loss of the state of law and of individual rights and of the rights to minorities you present to us precisely the case of the Constitution of the United States. The Constitution of the United States I remind you precisely that in the process of independence it was the demand of the British Constitution, of the Angles Constitution, of the Constitution of the Rights and Fundamental Freedoms that the Constitution recognized. Therefore, more than how far and little comparable the case of the independence of the United States with its claim to be independent of a Member State of the European Union with the current context and, therefore, with the current development of the democratic state of law, with the constitutionality control of the laws that exist in Spain and other States of the European Union, I believe that we must have presences which are the circumstances in which each of the historical periods is produced. The fundamental rights are not a whim of the constitutional pairs of the Spanish Constitution but the opposite, they are precisely the way the democracies have to ensure that the public authorities, the government or the rest of the powers of the State, do not act in an authoritarian and illiberal way against minorities or individual rights. It is important that there is this tension between the pretence of some rulers who say that, as we have the majority, even though they do not have the majority in the Congress of Deputies, even though they do not even have a majority in the Catalan society in favor of their cause, that their pretension would not be possible even though there is a very solid majority in the assembly of the Catalan society..., but what is obvious is that they do not have the majority in the Congress of Deputies you cannot change the law of which we have endowed among all of you. That's why I was asking him a question in the claus that you tell me what his interpretation is about the social contract we have here, the conjunction of the Catalans, and between the conjunction of the Catalans and the rest of the Spanish, which is the Spanish Constitution, of which we are part, of this consensus that there were the Catalans in the form of part and we were the main protagonists. Therefore, this constant appeal to popular will or to this popular mandate that is above the law is something that in other rights necessarily associates with illiberal populism, the lack of respect for individual rights and the state of law. As I said, it is fixed with the European Union and the cases of Hungary and Poland. In these countries there are governments that are not respecting the state of law and have, therefore, logically, a call to order, a call for attention, on the part of the European institutions and on the part of the courts, of the European Court of Human Rights, which is not an organ of the European Union, but rather of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is. He obviously did not answer my question about your claim and that of Mr. Torra that Catalonia is subject to the right to self-determination. You don't feel like continuing to use a possibility, an idea that doesn't have any meaning to..., you didn't keep your eyes open, if you look at the texts that inform this right to international doctrine, and you still insist on that. I remind you of the contents of the transitional laws, the names of the laws of legal transition or the names of the laws of disconnection, in which you spoke of the idea that Mr Puigdemont chose to tell the magistrates of the future or the hypothetical supreme court of that republic that you wanted to achieve. This is an illiberal democracy. You are carrying the separation of powers, you are carrying the respect for individual rights and, in fact, in this resolution that you always store from the European Court of Human Rights, in which you say precisely that it was an imperative democratic need to stop the plethora that you wanted to celebrate on October 9th here, in that resolution it is precisely about this: that claim or the need that there was to guarantee a public order, to maintain security and to maintain individual rights. In a democracy, which is the way we have men, the citizens, to have a peaceful coexistence in which one will not exercise an excess of liberty or an excess that will harm the freedom of another, this is the only way we have the citizens to guarantee our peaceful coexistence. And you didn't take that into account. He didn't answer me when I tell him what they're going to do again, which is exactly what Mr. Torra says they're going to do again. It is true that there is no coincidence between what Mr. Aragones says and what Mr. Torra says. But really if what they're going to do again is try once more to run over the rights of the parliamentary minority, even though it's the social majority, they're going to run over the rights of the citizens of Catalonia, they're going to try again to divide Catalans and fragment a democratic state of the European Union like Spain, so it's obvious that I didn't get that answer. But I'll tell you what we'll do again: we'll slow it down again. And we'll go back to stopping from Parliament, like we did in '17, and we'll go back to stopping obviously going to court. It is that the courts are the refuge we have the citizens precisely when there are rulers who believe over the law, some who even say it with absolute naturality as if it were the most normal thing in the world. Mr. Torra said: "I have a higher mandate than the Central Electoral Board or the courts say. This in democracy, therefore, has a name, which are authoritative. The Governor Torra has are totalitarian cairns. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.67.0	To repeat it again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.68.0	Mr Martin Blanco, you, speaking of the independence process of the United States and the constitutional expert with whom the American Constitution was drafted, told me that they had done so in a democratic way and, moreover, using the principles that were present in the British right, without a formal constitution, in the case of the United Kingdom, they understood each other. I'm saying, listen, because you're using it, but I'm telling you that this should be brought to the Congress of Deputies and that there should be majorities to change the constitutional framework. Clearly, the question is: escort, that perhaps the representatives of the conviction of the thirteen colonies that were gathered in Philadelphia to prepare the Constitution of the United States..., that maybe this voted for it in Westminster, in the Parliament of Great Britain? What maybe they took him there because you had a majority in the Parliament of Great Britain? So, no, obviously. What is the right to self-determination? So, that's what they determine, not that they determine the others, because then it wouldn't be "self, it would be" alterdetermination, that it's a concept that doesn't exist, it doesn't exist in international law. Another question – another question – what will we do again? I said to him, I said to him, we'll go back to fighting for just laws, we'll go back to fighting for phone book rights, we'll go back to fighting for respect for popular will. Three concepts that Montesquieu, Thomas Paine, all the ideas of which is democracy and the right and human and phonological rights repeat one time and another time. So that's what we're gonna do. Miri, you say you're going to slow him down again. Well, yet he moves, as Galileo used to say. It's that it's soft – it's soft – even though they don't want to. Because popular will, phone laws, fair laws is something that we have the whole world's right to pursue and that millions of citizens, and I believe that a majority of citizens, too, want to pursue with us. Therefore, of course we have to do it, we are obliged to do it. Miri, you're talking about institutional loyalty. Let me ask you a series of questions about this joy, why should you believe it? What institutional delight is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is dedicated to political follow-up, huh? , for legitimate democratic ideas to representatives of a government legally, legitimately, spying on political rivals? Listen, the president of the United States fell for this, in the Watergate case; he fell for this, for this espionage. What institutional loyalty allows them to spy, in addition, on foreign citizens, deputies to Westminster, deputies to the Bundestag, representatives of the Council of Europe, international organizations, representatives of civil society, journalists...? What joy is this? To whom? What institutional loyalty is it that allows an ambassador of Spain...? I'm saying that because you seem to be defending me. What institutional loyalty is it to ask the CNI for reinforcements to investigate the people of the Council of Europe? And what kind of institutional loyalty is this to who it is? Of course not the Council of Europe. What institutional leiiness do they agree that public money is spent on hiring people to sabotage a parliamentary initiative that is ultimately taking place in the Bundestag, the German Parliament? What kind of institutional loyalty is this? Do you defend all this action? What institutional leiiness allows the Spanish State to allocate all resources to its abyss in order to try to boycott the Catalan foreign action and in change – in change – not to guarantee the right to the external vote, which is the work that must be done by the ambassadors and comforts and not by the fan? They don't, and you prove that every time there are fewer people who can vote. What institutional joy is it to allow a political party of the ultra-right, its members of Vox, to be present in a trial, to make a particular accusation and to ask more than seven hundred years of people who have called the people to the polls? What loyalty – what loyalty – justifies that the State, eh? , is spent, with an armored sun, with a tank, more money than we spend with all the Catalan delegations abroad, 6_millions and bail, which you have voted and do not question, which you vote and do not question. [[Greetings.]] What loyalty does the Spanish government allow – and you don't question it – which loyalty makes it possible to ask for eight IBEX 35 companies to fund a campaign against a legitimate and democratic political ideology? What joy is this? What institutional loyalty do they defend when they want to apply the 155 without any reason, without even just legal argument, to end everything, to slap the Catalan institutions, even this Parliament, from which you are talking? We're talking about institutional loyalty. If you believe in institutional loyalty, as it mentions the areas of international organizations, you may be loyal to United Nations and its Arbitrary Detention Working Group and your defense... Why do they laugh? Why do they laugh at United Nations? Why are they laughing at a United Nations work group? And that you defend that defense of this working group, sorted by the Council of Human Rights of United Nations, which says: freedom of immediate political prisoners, compensations and an independent investigation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.69.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.70.0	...to clarify how this disruption occurred in the Spanish State. It's here. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-23-3601.71.0	Counselor, thank you. There are no more points to the order of the day scheduled for today. They suspect the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
