ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. It's part of the session. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before we follow the order of the day, however, and sadly, we have to regret the confirmation of two more murders due to general violence in Catalonia – with these, it is now four years ago –, the already mentioned yesterday, of a Terrassa vein, and a case in point, to the same population, of a missing woman the past year, according to the Interior Department has communicated to us. [[Decree of 12/2019 of 9 July of urgent measures in the field of taxation and the fight against tax fraud]] [[203-00020/12]] [[Let us continue with the order of the day; the fourteen points is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 12/2019, of July 9, urgent measures in the matter of taxation and the fight against tax fraud.]] [[In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-President of the Government and the Councillor of Economy and History will first intervene to explain the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. Vice President, when you want to.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.2.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to everyone. During the year 2018, the Catalan economy extended, for five years as a result, the expansion phase started in 2014. The gross domestic product grew by 2,6_per_cent, eight tenths per cent under the previous year, in a context of progressive deceleration of global activity. The quarterly long-term growth profile of 2018 showed a deceleration pattern from the 3,3_per_cent annual first quarter to the 1,8_per_cent fourth quarter. In the first quarter of January, however, the growth of the Catalan economy was 2.1_per_cent, and there are signs of stability after a progressive loss of dynamism during the year 2018. Therefore, a context for adapting the growth rates of the Catalan economy to a European and global economic situation. The Catalan economy is heavily exposed to the external market and, therefore, we are the advanced indicator, for the conjunction of the economy of the State, of the dynamism of the external activity. Despite all this, we are still on a positive path, of stabilising growth around 2_per_cent, propitious to mature economies, which they do not only win the gaps created, therefore, of losing growth during the economic crisis, but they do so in a sustained way, in which all sectors of productive activity contribute to economic growth. Despite these positive data at the macroeconomic level, if we look at the indicators of welfare and social progress, and in particular the living and working conditions, published in this year 2019 by the Institute of Statistics of Catalonia, inequality has decreased with the last data, but still the data of relative poverty are not good, they are negative. Data on the population at risk of poverty or social exclusion show an increase from previous years. Therefore, despite the economic goodness of the past few times, each time we have a percentage of the population that is at risk of poverty that grew slightly, a greater risk in the collection of women and young people. The Government of Catalonia, if you have a state, could take steps to fight against poverty and inequality with resources and media, as I say, of a state. If this Parliament can decide on all the spheres of the lives of the citizens of Catalonia – and this is the government's will – we would have many more tools to support it. But, although we don't have them, we have to rule as well as we know the share of resources and means of what we have. And that Parliament approves the laws that Catalan society needs. And one of these laws, perhaps the most transcendent, is the Law of Presuppositions, which we currently have in place for the second consecutive year. The final assumption approved is that of the year 2017. And, therefore, we work with extended assumptions to meet the current needs of Catalans and Catalans; a presupposition – later approved – of the year 2017, which in good part is explained by the application of Article 155 of the October finals of the year 2017 until the principles of June of the year 2018, eight months of suspension of autonomy. Despite all this, the Department of Vice-Presidents and Economics and History we have already set aside the internal machinery to draw up the proposal of assumptions for the year 2020. The government will do its utmost to reach agreement with the parliamentary groups and we will bring the draft assumptions to a later date so that they can see the light, approved by Parliament, before I finish this year. We are aware that Catalonia has a number of presuppositions that help to prosper collectively, while the Government is doing everything possible to adapt the situation of presupposition to meet the current social needs. To deal with this, the Government approved a law decree, weeks later, which was validated for this chamber, which granted a credit supplement of EUR 814_million, which together with other resources allowed to improve the conditions of public workers, with earmarked resources, with EUR 1,039_million: back 40_percent of the 2013 extra pay, increased staff in the areas of health and education. And the government also presented the Action Plan to meet the emergency spending of the year 2019, to adapt it to current needs, with the aim of reducing inequalities and improving equal opportunities. But we are still moving forward, and this July the Government approved the Decree on urgent measures in the matter of taxation and the fight against tax fraud, which we are debating today for its validation, a decree which we have approved in order to meet urgent needs, mainly of social nature, and in particular to attend to the expenditure arising from the tram which corresponds to September 2019 of the guaranteed income of citizens, the social benefit through which the minimums of a life worthy of the people and families who find themselves in a situation of insufficient entrance, in a situation of poverty. If we do not have enough presuppositions, because we are managing 2017's presuppositions, it is absolutely essential to have our entrances in front of the deployment of the guaranteed income of citizens that guarantees greater coverage. To complete these entries, the law decree provides to raise from '1,5_per_cent to 2_per_cent the tax type of the tax that is paid when formalizing mortgage loans that pay the financial entities after the legislative changes of the late past. The estimated impact of this measure, in terms of recaptació increment, is 82_million euros per year. Bearing in mind that the entry into force of this Decree is in July, which is when approved by the Government, the estimated increase in replenishment during this 2019 is about EUR 34_million. Therefore, we generate inputs to meet the needs that continue to grow. It is essential that, despite the presuppositional extension, while working on the new presuppositions of the year 2020, we carry out measures to meet needs that cannot wait for the year 2020. In the point of this increase from '1,5_per_cent to 2_per_cent of the tax paid by the banks, the tax of documented legal acts, referring to the constitution of mortgage loans, I want to refer that this increase has been claimed at length by various groups of the Parliament of Catalonia, as, for example, in the Proposition of Law of Catalonia in Comú Can, Deputy David Cid, who presented it, but also other parliamentary groups who have asked us to draw forward this change. And this government wants to remember that it also put it on the table as one of the proposals in the mark of a possible presupposition agreement of 2019, which ultimately did not re-eject. Another measure that contemplates this decree which has a positive impact on the recaptancy is the modification of the tax on empty habitats so that the title grounds are also subject to the obligation to satisfy the tax. I would like to remind you that the tax on empty dwellings is the tax that penalizes the failure of the social function of dwellings that are permanently unoccupied and that has as objective that they arise in the market, increase the estoc of dwellings, avoid speculative behaviors in the real estate field, of sheltering empty dwellings to speculate there. And we know that the securitization funds are especially active in acquiring large packages of housing from mortgage execution. For another band, the decree also provides for a change in the social rate of the water canon, as a consequence of the persistence and increase of people in a vulnerable situation. In concrete terms, we propose that the social tariff should continue to apply a zero type, if it is not exceeded the first tram, which is a consumption of new cubic metres per month, and a coefficient of 0.5 to the type corresponding to each tram, if the consumption is greater than new cubic metres per month, thus combining economic and environmental sustainability with social needs. Therefore, all consumption, in the case of vulnerable families, will be improved if the first consumption tranche for which it refers to the water canon is not exceeded. And following the water channel, there is also a change in the collections that can benefit from this channel, since apart from the groups that exist until now – pensioners, pensioners with minimum pensions, with a vulnerability report, according to the criteria of Law 24/2015– there are added water sub-administration holders who believe that their family unit is in a situation of economic vulnerability – therefore, we are more than retirees and pensioners – acknowledging that a report of the social services of the competent Administration, the situation of risk of residential exclusion or any other situation requiring special protection. Therefore, we increase the tax burden on financial entities, we reduce the water supply for families in a situation of poor energy: tax redistribution. We also carry out territorial balance measures. In the same way that we face social inequalities, we must guarantee equal opportunities for everyone, we must face the territorial inequalities that Catalonia suffers; we must ensure that this equality of opportunities remains the same where it is visible, in order to guarantee territorial balance and generate conditions to facilitate the prosperity of all the regions of the country, especially those least dynamic economically speaking. In the decree I present today on behalf of the Government, we find measures in this sense. There are measures aimed at the reactivation and reindustrialisation of Flix municipality, which was declared of general interest to the reindustrialization project that affects this municipality, a municipality that has had the disintegration, like other municipalities of the Ribera d'Ebre, also of the Garrigues and Segria, of suffering the hardest forest fire of the past few years in Catalonia, just one_month ago. And, therefore, we must take the measures that we have in our midst because life has returned to these areas, not only in the agricultural and the ramading areas, which we will push on in the next few days and which we will approve on behalf of the Government, but also in other economic areas, such as the industrial one. Therefore, in order to promote the recovery of this territory, the decree introduces a bonus in the quota of the canon on the controlled deposit of industrial waste in Flix municipality that is to allow the development of projects of sectoral transformation or reindustrialisation that contemplate the maintenance and the new implementation of industrial activity and the creation of occupation. In the same line of reclamation of the quota of the canon on the controlled deposit of industrial residues in the municipality of Flix, in the regulation of the water canon, a reclamation has been proposed with the objective of encouraging industrial or business actions in the framework of the reindustrialization projects approved for the Government, thus allowing the creation or maintenance of industrial activity, maintaining job places to municipalities affected by the closure of industries or in cases of enterprises in contests. For the time being, because the Reindustrialization Plan is approved for all administrations in the municipality of Flix..., it is an application in this municipal term, but it has been designed in a general way to be applied, in case another reindustrialization project is agreed. More tax on financial entities, better water for families with poor energy, reindustrialisation of the territory, especially those cases where industrial renewal after mature industries, therefore, lose and need new investments. We also present corrective measures for environmental and social externalities. Yesterday it was known that the European Commission denounced the Spanish State and will impose a fine for the atmospheric contamination of Madrid, Barcelona and the Prat de Llobregat. Precisely, one of the measures that includes this decree is the increase of the tax type, the increase of the tax on the emission of nitrogen oxides to the atmosphere produced by aviation in the special protection zone of the atmosphere. Also includes a tax type that records the bets that are made in the gambling venues of Catalonia, even though, as you know, today the main problem of the game is focus on online bets. In this sense, unlike what the Spanish government does with regard to the tax type of the online game, which we lower, we increase, especially in the area of betting, which is the area where we have competence. A few weeks ago we also presented to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy of this Parliament the new Fighting Plan against tax fraud 2019-2022. One of the objectives of this plan is to step up control over the risk sectors, which we have already identified in the previous plan: the real estate sector, the gambling sector or the sub-basket sector. The risk sector does not mean that there is a non-complimentary behaviour in all these sectors of taxation, but there is a greater risk and, therefore, they call for specific measures. It is certainly an objective of the Government and the Vice-President's Department to provide us with those useful tools so that they are obliged to pay a tax in compliance with their tax obligations. And that's why we make a reform to guarantee the payment of the game fee, because the default that has occurred in some cases damages the collection of the tax, affects the sufficiency of resources and, obviously, has an impact on the fact that everyone who is obliged to pay taxes has to satisfy them. We incorporate three measures into the scope of the game. In relation to the rule of merit of the fee on the game is conditioned the sub-administration of bingo cards – which must be authorized by the Generality – to the non-existence of tax debts in the concept of the tax on the game and, therefore, it must be believed that the tax debt has been extinguished. Therefore, those gambling companies that have outstanding mortgages on the game will not be eligible to continue with bingo activity for the distribution of our bingo cards. It may seem like a partial aspect, a minor aspect, but we believe that it is important that the Authority activity of the Administration go hand in hand with the Tax Administration being able to guarantee the fulfilment of obligations by everyone. In the matter of sanctioning rules, we incorporate as a very difficult infringement the realization of play activity without having satisfied the tax on the game, therefore, without having met the fee that the celebration and organization of this activity incurs. And in the field of bonds it is established that these also account for the debts derived not only from the gambling activity, but also from the taxes that engrave the gambling activity. Finally, and in summary fashion, we are aware that in order to meet the needs of the citizens of Catalonia, the families, the businesses, the workers and the workers, we need to work to make available to the Government of Catalonia, together with all the tax resources that this society generates, and we want to do so because we have managed with responsibility the public finances, we want to make it all free, and all freedom wants to say all the tax resources that are generated in Catalonia, and we probably just manage the total amount of taxes that are collected in Catalonia when we follow an independent state, because the Spanish State has not given samples of doing it in any other way, and this is a position of the government itself. But we are also aware – and this I am convinced is a shared position with most groups in the chamber – that while it does not end up with political projects that defend each of the forces that we are here today, while we are obliged to make decisions to make Catalonia a more just and cohesive society. The long-term objective... that are different in this chamber, is certain, but the long-term objectives do not have to imply a waiver of the tools that we have immediately of the margin of improvement that we have in the present day. It is obvious, as I said, that we would serve our society better with assumptions adapted to the current needs. And that's why the government is willing to talk to everyone, to talk to all parliamentary groups to give us a new premise for 2020. We will bring the proposal for a presumption, we will approve the Bill of Presuppositions to the Government, and we will bring the presuppositions to this Parliament later in the year 2020, and while we can do those measures which cannot be postponed, which cannot be extended, because they would significantly affect the welfare and prosperity of the population as a whole. We have spoken to many of the parliamentary groups in advance, and I know that there is a great deal of predisposition to facilitate the validation of this bill. I would like to thank all the groups that have made proposals in this sense, we have had various proposals from different groups in the Chamber, who have headed and put them on the table, many in the form of a parliamentary initiative. I want to thank all of them for the effort to pull forward, the effort to make joint proposals. Thank you for extending your hand, and the government is also taking over and extending it. Therefore, we ask for the validation – decreed by law – that, as I said, in summary mode, involves a series of fiscal measures that, in the first place, engrave, increase the taxes that satisfy the entities financed in the constitution of mortgages, that reduce the taxes that the families pay in a situation of poor energy, that guarantee the completion of the tax obligations in the field of gambling, that they also cause the funds to be returned as passive subjects of the tax on empty floors, the funds to be titrated, those funds to be seen as having the legal form of title funds also as passive subjects of the tax on empty floors. Therefore, sharing the need, sharing the obligation that everyone comply with their tax obligations, worth the redundancy. We are betting for reindustrialisation, and especially for a municipality that has been declared, therefore, with its reindustrialisation project on behalf of all public administrations, but which can be extended. Therefore, a decree that despite the difficulties, despite the situation of extension responds to the needs and emergencies of the country. And I want to give thanks for the entrance to all the parliamentary groups that will facilitate our validation. Working together is like this country pulls forward. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.3.0	Thank you, Vice President. We then turn to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to fix their position, and, first of all, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.4.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputies, deputies, councillor, vice president senor Aragonès, very good morning. Today, Mr Vice-President, we have a decree-law entitled 'urgent measures in the field of taxation and the fight against tax fraud'. Although there's little of this going on. And despite this rumbling title, despite this one seeking a title, despite seeking to sweeten what is behind this decree law, in fact what is there is a rise in taxes. Behind this document there is a rise in taxes, what there is to put your hand back in the pocket of Catalans, in this case, of the middle and working class, which is the one who always bears these rise in taxes. You, in your memory and in your explanatory statement, tell us that the objective of this decree law is to increase the collection by 85_million_euros. That is, they urgently need to raise an additional 85 million euros. And they need to do it because they are not willing to give up the elimination of chiringuitos, they are not willing to reduce high offices, they are not willing to reform the Administration, you are not willing to stop traveling to the king's body to visit fugitives from justice, you are not willing to give up expenses and waste to open embassies and to advertise precisely to speak badly of Spain throughout Europe, to speak badly of the Spanish State, that Spanish State that oppresses us, that Francoist Spanish State, that is, all those lies that ultimately happen to damage the Catalan economy and they also have to present a decree law because they are not able to approve some budgets and we have the budgets extended since 2017. And that's why you have to try to make up, camouflage, wash your face to what's behind this decree law, which is ultimately an increase in the tax on mortgages, a rise in the tax on documented legal acts, so behind that decree law what's behind it is an increase in housing, which will coincide with me that it's a good of first necessity. And why do I tell you that behind this decree law is simply the rise in taxes? Because the 95_per_cent of those 85_million that you intend to collect are budgeted through the rise of the AJD, of that tax. I'm going to talk to you about two aspects of this decree law, the first would be about forms. That is, the way to change taxes, to create new taxes, to raise tax rates, is not through a decree law by urgency. Our legal system reserves to the laws this power, precisely to provide transparency, clarity and legal certainty to Catalans, to taxpayers, on a subject as delicate as the tax issue would be. This is normally reserved for this type of measure when presenting and approving budgets through the Tax Measures Act, through the Accompanying Act. But you can't do this, Mr Aragonès, you can't do this, you have to do it urgently and you do it urgently because, of course, that is an objective fact, you are unable to approve budgets. In 2018 they resigned, they did not even present them. They said they didn't have time. Although you were managing the 155, and were also congratulated on the 155 management, you did not put the budgets on top of the table. In 2019 they already made a mage, but neither did they present it. And you still did something more serious: you were not able to approve of yourselves. Nor was his own Government able to approve a budget to present it to debate in this Chamber, to present it to debate in this Parliament. So the first thing I would have to analyze would be the causes of why we don't have budgets, why we have extended budgets. Well, I understand that there are three main causes. First of all, because it's a government that doesn't rule. It's a government that's paralyzed. Obviously, a government that does not govern, that dedicates itself to a single objective, that has a unique obsession that is the process, does not need budgets, extends them and goes on, to continue with its monotheme. Secondly, because, of course, they are unable to agree and discuss budgets for all Catalans. Everything they do has one goal that is the process. If you organize an institutional act, your goal is the process; if you advertise, the objective is the process; if you travel internationally, the objective is the process; the media, the objective is the process. So, by logical deduction, when they make budgets, what is the objective of these budgets? Well, there's only one goal: the process. And, therefore, they are budgets that are not for all Catalans, at least they go against more than half of Catalans and they also do not benefit any of the Catalans. It is therefore difficult for me to have the approval of this House, at least the thirty-six Members I represent here today in this House are not going to support a budget whose sole objective is the process. Perhaps there are groups that try to whitewash their activity do so, but the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group already assures you that it will not do so. And, on the other hand, also tell him that there are no budgets because he was already doing well, Mr Aragonès, he was doing well. You, with the budget extension, have managed to get out of the way that you have managed to meet the fiscal deficit and the expenditure rule. But how is he not going to fulfill it? If the items have been extended and increased. In times of economic boom we have had more income and the items have been the same. Of course you have been able to comply. You have not met those objectives, you have fulfilled the budget extension. And besides, he's doing well as an excuse, not having budgets. That we can't afford extra pay? We just don't have budgets. And, besides, and also – of the officials, we don't have budgets – and also, it's that Spain steals. But how are we going to pay the extras? That we can't get rid of the barracks and we have to make Santa Susanna, an over-indebted municipality, pay for her own institute? Well, it's all right. Why do we do this? Because we have the budgets extended and, besides, there is an evil Spanish state that steals from us. How are we going to build a barracks in these circumstances? Therefore, all this, that not having a budget is at the expense of the Catalans, it is at the expense of not doing politics for the Catalans. Later, I expected some rigour in presenting, from the formal point of view, this decree law. If you wanted to talk about social tariff, if you wanted to talk about redistribution, if you wanted to talk about equal opportunities, if you wanted to talk about environmental externalities, if you wanted to talk about tax fraud, count on us, but what you can't do is try to make up a tax hike by introducing that into this decree law, trying to mask it. That can't do it. If you want to talk about those issues, we discuss a decree law on those issues, but don't try to wash the face of a tax hike with those issues. Because you here have mixed the canon of water, the taxes on the game, sanctions of non-compliance on the game. In addition, it has tried to correct errors in the design of its own taxes. But how will their own taxes not make mistakes, if they did run them, if in their own emails they say they do so so for the Constitutional Court to overthrow them and, moreover, most were advised and guided by someone who understands as much taxation as it is the CUP, who were the ones who dictated these own taxes. Are you surprised that it is the Constitutional Court that is the subject of certain articles? But not only the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has also laid down certain articles of its own taxes. Subsequently, they also try to establish certain tax subsidies. Look, we, you have said before, that this proposal has been put forward several times in this Parliament, it has been put forward by the PSC and by the Commons, and you are fully aware that we have both voted against raising taxes and increasing housing. And why have we voted against it? We voted against because Spain has the highest taxes on the signing of a mortgage across Europe. In fact, there are countries like Germany, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands that do not have this type of tax. In addition, it is a tax assigned to the autonomous communities, so each autonomous community has its own tax rate and this harms fiscal competitiveness. And let's see if you can guess, ladies and gentlemen, which is the autonomous community that has the highest tax rate. Do I give you any clues? Start with that. Ours, Catalonia is the autonomous community that has the highest tax rate. And when you come up and say that it will not affect this rise in the tax on citizens, obviously, either you are an illusion or you lie. When there is an increase in expenses for the bank, when the bank has an increase in expenses, what it does is to review that mortgage offer and what it does is to transfer that expense to the family that needs a mortgage. That's what he's gonna do. Look, you have preferred to make citizens' homes more expensive than to reform the administration and not to stop at waste. We're not going to be accomplices to the housing price. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.5.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, the Member of Parliament, Alicia Romero, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.6.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, vice president, councillor, deputies and deputies. Well, today, the vice president brings us here a decree that we could split into two parts. One that talks about tax benefits and has as its objective to benefit or prioritize the installation of economic industrial activity in Flix, after all the patience that these lands and, in concrete terms, therefore, this municipality has been painted for a long time, with the closure of Ercross, but also with the difficulties of Covestro, in other words, it is a topic that we have often talked about here. And the second part is the one that refers to getting more tickets, right? , with the objective of being able to cope with certain expenses which, obviously, the budgetary extension does not allow us. On the first one, which I would like to put up with because I think it is quite important and, by the way, in this Parliament, we are, in the end, talking about depopulation, about this empty Catalonia which is receiving little attention from the Government of the Generality. We look at the proposals on the tax benefits that we make to industries because they are moving to Flix seem to us to be totally inadequate. Obviously, it's a gesture, it's a small gesture, but it doesn't seem to us that this solves the problem of this area, above all, those of the Jew, very unpopulated, who have long been losing people, young people go looking for opportunities in other places and this obviously generated more territorial imbalance, less territorial cohesion and also, obviously, costs more public services close to home. We will not resolve this with these amendments that we make to the decree, but it would be worth it if the government took it seriously. In fact, the Socialist Group has been looking for, we have talked about this several times. A resolution was adopted, on March 2016– I look forward to it in time–, we were talking about Covestro and Ercross as well, and we were asking for an industrial plan of the future, among the social agents of the territory, with the aim of enhancing this reindustrialisation. It's been three years, well, now we can approve a point change, but that won't fix the problem. Either we are making a comprehensive, cross-cutting intervention in these more depopulated territories, of which yesterday the president of my group was also speaking, or, but frankly, we will continue to unbalance the territory and the people will follow or lie down every time more to the coast and to the clean areas in Barcelona. I think that we are doing the country a bad job, and therefore it is worth it to develop a recovery plan for the economy of the Ebre lands, better road and rail infrastructure, optical fiber, adaptation of the FP to the reality of the market there, the forecast of the nuclear change of Ascó to nine energetic activities, in other words, there are many possibilities for them to spend a lot of time that we give them. This is what we would like today to be able to approve and not these punctual changes, which are absolutely insufficient. Miri, the year 2016 and 2017, I asked Councillor Baiget and Vice President Junqueras to tell me where the investments they were managing from Action were coming from, because I already understand that the company obviously decides freely where to settle in Catalonia, but those that come from the hand of Action, it seems to me that it is from those who have enabled the Government, as a minimum, to balance them in the territory. So, look, in that response that I was given in 2017, referring to 2015, of the projects that had arrived in Catalonia, a 48_per_cent arrived in Barcelona, 28 projects to Barcelonès, 8 to Baix Llobregat, a 14_per_cent, 8 to Vallès Occidental, a 14_per_cent, 3 to the East, a 5_per_cent, a 1.7 per_cent project to Baix Ebre, a project to Tarragonès and to all other regions, res. I mean, the ability a government has is high. Many projects came, almost fifty projects. If you have the ability to direct, obviously, the reversals to the one that lies or the one that you attract, I think we should be able to co-ordinate it or balance it territorially. You haven't been able to do that at the moment. And then, yes, we can make a timely modification so that the industries come to Flix, with this not enough and, therefore, they demand that they are much stronger and more ambitious in this sense. According to the terms of the decree, right? Getting more tickets. Well, it's no novelty, the vice president said it, we don't have any assumptions because, simply, the government didn't approve them in an executive council, it didn't introduce them in this Parliament, and so they didn't approve, it's logical. It doesn't have to be much read to see this. What we don't understand is if, in the end, they didn't show up because the government saw that they didn't have enough capacity to negotiate them. We figured it should be that, because, but only, a door, process them, and close the chords. When a government doesn't have a majority parliament, it has to look for agreements and it wants to settle's, dialogue, agree, give up... Well, I think we all know who the negotiation strategies are. We hope that we will make a note of it for our own assumptions, because today there are no assumptions in Catalonia that are weak in the current government and, therefore, how it is its responsibility and also its obligation to present them, and then, the groups that have to make a majority, approve them, so I hope that we are after a little of this error, because it is true that a third year without assumptions would be disastrous for Catalonia. I believe that yesterday the president of my group, Miquel Iceta, made an offer to the government and did so honestly and honestly. We believe that this country cannot be allowed a third year without assumptions, and you said when your intervention began, Vice President, I would say: "The economy is better, we are in a good situation. This should also look at the assumptions and we're not seeing it. We are seeing very radical assumptions, obviously, because the extension does not allow us to spend, to invest what would be needed in this country, moreover, with a better economic. So, I hope we're all learning what happened, right? and above all, the government and, therefore, can approve in the Executive Board some assumptions that, in advance, you have tried to negotiate with a majority parliament. I hope that this will be extended, because, in the end, these assumptions should be, therefore, of the maximum possible consensus. In these punctual changes that you make of taxes, I've already said, they're punctual, we think the majority are coming late, they're coming late because they could have planned before, right? , and probably, therefore, in accounts of 40_million euros half-coursed, so we would be at 80. I'm telling you, too, huh? , a totally residual jifra and that does not solve the problems that, at these times, has Catalonia, this real Catalonia, of which some speak and that I do not know well if they have all the solutions, but, in any case, it is true that we would need to solve waiting lists, school segregation and, with 40_millions, therefore, that we do not solve it. But I think there are some of these point modifications that we might have raised before, both the water canon and the nitrogen oxide emission, like the documented legal acts, which was modified in November... in the end. But, well, up when up, we think that late, that it's insufficient, but, well, so welcome, that's true. Now, a few weeks ago, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs will be presenting a study on tax benefits, huh? , which, obviously, therefore, there is in Catalonia. I do not want to talk about those that do not affect us, because the regulations do not allow us to modify them, but those that Catalonia could modify. And, in this sense, we were talking about stopping charging about €1,400_million for tax benefits. These are our responsibility, because they affect regulations that we can modify, and in relation to these 1,400, around 800 come from the estate tax. Now, you, Mr. Aragones, will say: "Let's go back to the inheritance tax. Yes, because, in the end, it's the tax that would allow us to collect more tickets to be able to face what you say in the decree, exactly that. You make ad hoc changes and I say it or my group says to you: "If you change the inheritance tax only by eliminating some tax benefits that are truly retrograde, then we would probably be able to add more. And we would have liked it better if, in the accounts of these specific changes, we had also been accompanied by the proposal for inheritance tax. Because I'm already telling you, then, we'd like to know who else earns more pay and who inherits more pay and who pollutes more pay, and that seems like the government hasn't just shared it. Now, dimarts – I never thought I would say that – but I was delighted by Mr. Rufián, for a lot of things he said, huh? But now I'm going to read you some concrete phrases. He goes on to say: "Proposals concerning social rights and economics: fair taxation, something as simple as stopping three people, three people in this country – Amancio Ortega, Ana Botín and Juan Roig – who charge exactly the same, I repeat, three who charge exactly the same as 15_million people and who pay the same taxes as a SEAT worker. Anyone is the ABC on the left. You know that's wrong, that, come on, the one who has the most input and the one who has the least, the least, the least, as simple as that. Ole, Rufian. So, I'd like Rufián's expert to arrive at the Republican Left Parliamentary Group and the Government of the Generality. « Pay more who wins more. Go, of course, it's that, in fact, you're more right than a saint, Mr. Rufián, in that sense. So, I'd love for this spirit to arrive here and for that reason, you are planning a fairer, more progressive tax reform that allows this, less fiscal injustices, which is what happens to us at these times. Even so, obviously, despite the shortcomings, the inadequacies or the late arrivals, we will vote in favour of this decree, we have already said. We try to be responsible. When you come to us with a proposal that's fine, even though it's insufficient, so we support it. I'd like to dedicate a minute to Mr. Cano, because he always has the solutions for everything, always, always. And, probably, you too, Mr Aragonès, should decide whether your partner should be a citizen or the parties that conform to the left in this Parliament. And I'm saying that because Mr. Cano just wants to lower taxes, you. And then we'll see to the resolutions of the Royal Chamber of Catalonia. Reducing the benefits in the inheritance tax, reducing the IRPF, it still wants to reduce it. But you explain to me how you pay taxes, huh? And as the spending on education, social welfare and health increases, he'll explain it to me, because the numbers don't come out, huh? I mean, if you want to rule, explain how you do the numbers, because I don't believe it and I don't think the country, either. So, Mr. Aragones, today, we're doing a responsibility exercise. Here we are hoping that your responsibility will also be taken into account in your own time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.7.0	Deputy. Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Deputy David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.8.0	Okay. Vice-President, Members, Members, in fact, today, in the background, we could say that we are not discussing a decree by law, but we are actually discussing a draft law that was presented by our parliamentary group, which is Catalonia in Comú Pode, which is the amendment on the imposition of documented legal acts. I also want to thank, in this case, that the government has, in a certain way, so that we can, in this case, discuss the decree in advance, we have been able to do it with the whole economic team, with Mr Castellanos, who I do not see here now, and also with the whole vice-presidency team, and so I think it's just to thank him, right? I believe that the decree, basically, is the modification, as I say, of the type of tax on documented legal acts. For what it does, in this case, to the mortgage credits and that we move from '1 and mig to 2_per_cent, which allows us, in short, this 2019 to increase the recapitulation by 34_million euros, 47 plus year 2020; in total, 81_million euros. We understand and understand, when we made the proposal in this case of the bill, when we registered it, when we also proposed it to the Government and we also proposed it to the Department of Economics in the negotiation of assumptions, which was actually based on the modification that had occurred on this legislation at the level of the State in a new tax on the bank and which, therefore, would have to pay the funded entities and would not have to pay the customers that constituted these mortgages. We understand and understand that it is entirely reasonable, because we are talking about financial entities that only in 2018 increased their benefits by 16,000_millions across the state and increased their benefits to 22_percent at the state level. Therefore, we understood that it was reasonable that in a situation of economic goodness, after the bank bailout, after 60,000_million euros that the public administrations had donated in this case to the State, that it was reasonable that at that time of economic growth, therefore, also reverses in the conjunction of the citizenry to improve social services, to improve social policies, and also environmental policies. I'd ask for rigor in Ciutadans, because in the end also a tea, right? ..., it's always spoken or you speak – and yesterday our president said so too – of the popular classes and working classes, and in the end your defense of the popular classes and working classes is a scam. You defend IBEX 35 and you defend the benches, which is what you're doing. Because with your argument we would never impose taxes on the private sector, because they would always end up impacting on people. Therefore, it would not be imposed on companies, it would not be taxed on assets, it would not be taxed on the bank. And in the end, you have also invented the straw economy, which means "sorber" and "sorber" at the same time. It cannot be demanded that the waiting lists be duplicated; it cannot be demanded that university fees be duplicated by 30 per cent; it cannot be demanded, for example, that zero-three schools be funded in this country, and at the same time say that there must be every once in a while fewer taxes. It's that numbers don't quadrate, it's impossible. And, therefore, Catalonia is clear that it needs and the government needs more resources, but ultimately what we need is to redistribute the wealth. We will give support to the decree, but we do want to make some considerations or we want to convey some considerations to the vice president and the government. Miri, if we had to put some headline on the decree, it would be, as they say in English, too little, too late, huh? , mass a little and mass late. We can also see the got mig ple, and we can say that it's better late than never, that you always say my avia, right? But what we also understand, that this decree that ends up giving us is the reason in negotiating assumptions. We told them: "Calta and the Catalan Government need more resources if they want to end the retail trade, if they want to reduce inequality and if they want to make social, environmental and political policies that defend the rights of women. This was and is our goal: more social policies, more policies of fighting climate change and more policies in defense of women's rights. And here there are only three possibilities. Millora del finanzamento de Catalunya. You do not want it, it is not in case there is a part of the independence that you tell them that they are traitors, because they want to negotiate in this case a better amount of funding for Catalonia, which in fact has expired since the year 2014 and which would be the reason. But no, "don't let them tell us that this can't be and that it comes out I don't know who to tell us that we're traitors. Therefore, in this case we have given up discussing or planting or even claiming from the Government of the State that funding is better. A_second element of better is through the general assumptions of the State. There was a proposal, and in any case the assumptions, also legitimately, at the time, for political questions, I would say, more quickly than for questions of the same assumption and interest of the same Government, were dropped the general assumptions of the State, right? Also, isn't it? "A government that doesn't have a majority has to look for agreements, it has to look for majorities and it has to be able to push policies forward. Now he's not listening to me, but I think that we could also apply it in this case to the government's negotiation at the present time. Mrs Romero said: "If we had Mr. Rufián here, we would certainly have fiscal policy; I am sure that if we had Mrs. Romero, and not Mr. Pedro Sánchez, at the level of the State, we had already agreed. [[Rialles.]] But we're not here anyway, are we? I also, this reflection that you did, that a government that doesn't have a majority has to look for agreements and be able to reach agreements and, therefore, also approve them..., so I tell you that 123 escons don't amount to 176 and, therefore, it is not a majority. And finally the third pot to have in this case also more resources is tax policy. And what we're asking for... is that Catalonia has regulatory capacity, certainly insufficient, certainly not everything we want, but in this case we have the ability to increase taxes to reduce inequality, and also to get more resources, than it is to reduce inequalities. And even you, when this week was the report of the economic situation in Catalonia, recognising, huh? , that we are at a stage of economic improvement, perhaps with a certain risk of deceleration, but in any case there are indicators, especially for which it refers to the taxes of the poor, and obviously also to the poor of workers and workers, it is to say, even people who work, that the indicators grow. And I think that in this case we are talking about people with names and surnames who have many difficulties in arriving at the end of the month or who cannot see their basic needs covered, and therefore the responsibility in this case of Parliament, and obviously also of the Government, to give it an answer. And I think, when we spoke and discussed the decree, that they also gave us the reason why you recognized that even so, didn't they? , guaranteed income, which has a very important impact, because it is a universal right in 2019, so in this case the grounds of contingency..., probably if we do not make this decree, if we do not put these measures on the market, there would not be sufficient resources to cover guaranteed income, which, as I say, in this case is a universal right, and therefore I think we need more resources to be able to do it front. In short... which is what we gave them in the negotiation of assumptions, that their numbers did not fit, because in the background what they were doing in their proposal of assumptions and what we had on the table was the consolidation of many of those policies that were already in existence or that were already in Catalonia. And I recognized it yesterday the same advisor of Education, when he said: "It is very difficult to manage the assumptions, in this case, or an economic situation of the year 2019, when we have three_ thousand more masters, that already exist, that are working, that we have 2017. And in the background, his suggestion of assumptions was that it was ugly, that is to say, to make a reality emerge in the presuppositional reality that was already tangible at the level of many councils or many policies that it is ugly, but not to provide more resources without these fiscal policies than we have claimed, not to provide more resources to reduce inequality, to end the detail and, ultimately, to set aside many of the policies that the country needs, right? Yes, I let him say that also..., that it is obvious that they place some other elements in the decree that I believe to be positive for us. They talk, for example, don't they? from taxes, in this case, to sports betting; I think it's a reality that we need to worry about, that more are stretching to many barrels and that is causing, I would say, very complicated vital situations. I also let 'em say it's okay to push taxes in this case, right? sports bets; it would also be good to push them to the casinos. As much as it might be to the people of Hard Rock or Barcelona World or say it as they like, so they probably wouldn't like it very much. But in any case, well, you decided to lower the tax on casinos substantially, and that's no way to change it, I guess because that doesn't fit with the Hard Rock or BCN World project. In any case, you were talking about the assumptions of 2020. Look, we'll either do it or we'll do the same sort of thing we did to him. Catalonia needs more resources, Catalonia needs in this case more tickets to face the inequalities we have, the climate-emergency policies and the right of women; and here we basically have the opposite of what we couldn't agree to in 2019. We need progressive fiscal policy, and here we obviously have the inheritance tax, we have the income tax, and we need environmental taxation. And I think that in this sense..., and I'm going to put them back on what I've also put them on: the tax on polluting cars we'll keep on going or not by the year 2020? And then, once and for all, we also need to deploy the Public Transportation Finance Act. We have fiscal measures to enable us, in this case, to give or equip ourselves with more resources to finance public transport, which is fundamental, because if we want to fight against climate change, if we want to do it through a fair transition, we need, for example, that those alternatives to private mobility, mobility in this case based on oil..., so we also have the ability to do it not only better, but also more economically accessible, especially for the popular classes. And that means more resources to manage, and here we have the capacity to do so through relatively straightforward tax changes, which must allow us to have more resources to finance public transport. Therefore, you were talking about the more extensive, and I am, therefore, at your disposal, we are at your disposal. In any case, let's hope, all of us, that we will do after the lesson of the assumptions of the year 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.10.0	Well, good morning. Vice-President, you spoke to us again, as did the President yesterday, about a stage of economic goodness, some growth data during the first quarter of the 2,1_per_cent and a stage of economic stabilization. We will not tire of repeating that all this economic goodness is at the expense of most people and workers, at the expense of the misery of the majority of the population, that we are who, with labor exploitation, are compensating for this rise in economic activity. The indicators of welfare, as you have said, are clear: we have not yet recovered the wage levels of the year 2000; one_of_each_four women cover salaries that do not reach just 840_euros per month; the taxes of poor and poor wage earners each day rise more. And, therefore, you say today that we must take steps to maintain the state of welfare as we know it, not to keep going, but to keep things as they are. We get it. You have been privileged students in the compliment of the rules of stability, of the debt, of the expenditure, of the deficit... Yet, those who are very long and who are so long, the Socialist Party, despite arriving at the Government of the State, still continue to intervene in this Government, despite your compliment and despite the fact that you have been ahead of these rules. We've already told them many times, that, as we heard, they treated us worse. We stand by their hands, but if it is a question of a sovereign political action, of putting people's needs at the centre, of talking about life, but of a life worthy of the working people of our country. You talked about this credit modification expedition that we approved the whole chamber, 814_million euros, and you also talked about interdepartmental transfers, which finally gave us a budgetary margin of about 1,000_million euros, 1,030_million euros. Look, this is what we did. It is that, if we are not here to ensure that there are policies and there are some managers, we have done exactly the same: so pay the workers what they do, cover certain expenses to try to make a few social minimums... But what we need are courageous, ambitious and sovereign policies to advance the idea that the right to self-determination and the exercise of this right will open the doors to the exercise of many other rights. And, therefore, we must also defend the right to housing, the right to public health or to public and quality education. And this is not the line that this government is following. With regard to the concrete decree, the subject of the AJD, the truth is that it's rock and rock. First of all, IAJD is paying for the city. After a court of law says we're not the citizen we were supposed to pay for and that it was supposed to be the banks. But it turns out that with nighttime and treachery the Supreme Court Chamber is meeting, with administrative content, and says no, that in the end the banks were right, because, of course, is that the IBEX 35« is tight. Then he sees Pedro Sánchez and says that, well, that he changes the tax, that now this tax will pay the banks; that yes, the banks are retroactively going back to everything that they have cheated on us, after 61,000_million euros of bank bailout. The deposit on the bets. Now you come with an increase in the tax on face bets. Miri, when Mas-Colell dropped by 55_per_cent, the casino tax, to 10_per_cent, Republican Left put its hands to the head. I haven't seen them change this situation yet, I haven't seen them relocating casino charges to 55_per_cent, as it was when they put so much hands on Mas-Colell's head. For another band, you don't agree with what you say about the winter-life gas and the air traffic. Why? Because this does not coordinate with its expansionist policy, with the growth of the Prat airport, with the road infrastructures like the C-32 or the C-58, with the expansion of the terminals of the coves of the ports of Barcelona, nor with the extension of the lines of the airports, which they have already denounced [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out]] certain ecological collections. And I finished, President. As far as Flix is concerned, look, we don't think these are the right measures. We understand there has to be a reindustrialisation, but we think they have to go...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.11.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.12.0	... to encourage... – I finish, President –, to encourage endogenous development from appropriate territorial resources, but not to these measures which, in short and in comparison – and I finish, President – what they say is that it will charge...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.13.0	So much!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.14.0	- I'm done, President. [[remorse of the voice]] – which will cost less – the workers – because so the companies can work better, right? So it's the same, but at the ecological level. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.15.0	All right. Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.16.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, counselor, deputies, deputies, no, I can't help but start by giving you a hand to Mrs Romero, the PSC, right? , because it seems to me that the final sentence, which was: « Left Republican, please, vote for the investiture of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, which is essential. Fix yourself – fix yourself – that at last, Mr Aragonès, if you had any, the picardia and the ability to carry today – today – to vote on the assumptions or the law accompanying the assumptions, surely would have the unconditional support of the Socialists Group. You've seen it before, haven't you? And that sees how much of the decree you bring us today to pass, doesn't it? , because the decree backs some of the things, quite, most of the things that you had planned in the accompanying law that you as the government did not approve and that therefore did not bring to Parliament, and then you say: "Listen, I need more money now, as I do? I want to increase the tax on documented legal acts. I'm all of a law order, adding some other measures to hide a little bit and I'm taking it to Parliament. So, look, we don't get convinced; we don't get convinced by the system, nor do we get convinced that you justify this decree to you, which is an increase in the tax of documented legal acts. But we're going for parts. The first, why not the law? So, listen to me, the case law tells us that your decrees are justifiable as an extraordinary appeal. And you're not using it as an extraordinary resource. And to the data I refer it: a year of government, divided decrees law. So, no, it's not an extraordinary resource, it's the normality of this government: rule by law to avoid surprises in the processing of law projects in this Parliament. In fact, you have not approved seven bills of law, you have not approved the government; of the seven that you have approved, Parliament has only approved one. And that's what forces you to use the path of the law decree. We don't share it. Therefore, you already have the first reason for our refusal to validate this decree. And the other is the big mistake of thinking that if we increase the tax on documented legal acts..., not five points, not a 0.5_per_cent, as we've heard them say some time, no, it's a 25_per_cent. Clearly, it's a 0.5, going from '1.5 to 2, and that's a 25_per_cent increase in the tax. So think that this is what the banks are paying for, because they have to keep the money machine, and they say, "Well, if they push our taxes, we'll pay more. No, these banks have an impact on mortgages. And that's what we used to say last year in theory, because we all thought, "Home, this can happen. Not now, now we have the certainty that this is happening: ever since this tax was charged directly to the banks, mortgage prices have been charged. If you look at mortgage prices, which end up paying for it, it's the citizens... not just the citizens, I mean the Catalans. And if that means we're dealing with access to the property habitation, we're moving Catalans to the logging market. And if we move more consumers to the logger market, the consequence is that we press the price of the loggers back up. And these are the consequences of his decisions and his policies. You only think of yourself, of the government, do not think of the effects that taxes have on citizens and on citizens; say: « Listen, thanks to the groups for their contributions. We have also made no contributions; we are not only looking at the projects or proposals of the Law of the Initiative Group, we are also looking at our own, we are taking something positive. And we have one to remove the tax on documented legal acts. But not because they don't pay the banks, but because they don't pay the citizens, because they don't pay the Catalans, right? Listen to me, you've made use of an expression, which is that they have enlarged his hand and the government, so expand his hand. So that's why we vote no. Stop extending your hand, get your hands off the citizens' buttocks. Because every time you file a decree, it's to push taxes to Catalans. That's right, to strengthen Catalonia's leadership, to strengthen it. Miri, we already like to strengthen Catalonia's leadership, but not with fiscal pressure, not with taxes. And that's what you're doing all the time. Listen, more taxes means being less free and also means that Catalans are still poorer. Therefore, I cannot count, it will not count with our vote in the validation of this decree law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.17.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, has the word the deputy Lluís Salvadó, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.18.0	Thank you, President. Well, good morning. Some preconceptions about which have been made by the people who have intervened in the representation of the various groups. First of all, we appreciate that today we can set up a broad consensus in fiscal policy with various groups of this chamber; a broad consensus that we hope can also be reproduced in other areas; a broad consensus that seems to me that, if we are able to implement it, Mrs. Romero is already ready to solve Mr. Sánchez's problems, and has already found him a Minister of History for the Government of the Spanish State, with Mr. Rufián, who would certainly generate and promote fiscal policies that would come closer to those who explain and not so much to those who end up applying here. Because, as has been stated, a few days ago we had the opportunity to discuss with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy the tax benefits, and we were also able to contrast that 90_percent of the tax benefits that have been reflected in Catalonia's archives come to the attention of the Government of the State, and therefore it is good that we are here to defend ourselves, too, so that we can..., hope that you will end up agreeing, PSC, common, PSOE, and we can, in setting up this government, that here you can defend – and we can –, with the help of all, also implement it there, and very much in one of the themes that has also been set up from the various parts of the table, that the subject of this Parliament may, with the help of all of you, implement it, and, especially in one of the themes that has also been set up by this government, and that we can – here defend it, with the help of all, once in the past, the past, the past, the past, the past, the past, the past, the past, the past, the past, the past. But in any case, we are confident and convinced that we have a lot of way to go, and we can work together with the PSC group as well as the commons group, to drive initiatives in this line. In any case, also some reference to the intervention of Mr. Cano, who never disappoints us. Here we are talking about the tax fraud and he is talking about the process; here we are talking about Flix and he is talking about "syringuitos" – surely his zero directors in the Bank of Ebre must convey a high concern about the problems of the territory; here we are talking about how to have more control of the system of gambling companies, and we are talking about "syringuitos"; we are talking about social rates, and we are talking about processes. The truth is that it is also unstoppable to see and contrast his defense of the interests of the IBEX, of the banks and of the funds returning from the great companies of the game. As Mr Cid also stated before, it is certain that EUR 16,000 million of bank benefits are not enough – they are not enough – to deal with the EUR 85 million that this Parliament today is asking for a banking system that is sure, sure, it has a very, very, very important capacity to deal with it. In any case, before the Vice-President of the Government exposed this decree to us, which is set up by eight different fiscal measures, some of them of social character, others aimed at working for the territorial rebalancing, others which raise increases of tax type and others which are in charge of improving the fight against fraud; the other measures which they have as a driver, as a common concern, to bring to our society, modest contributions, if they want, but positive contributions to our society and much more concretely to improve our tax system, to make it a little more just, to make it a little more social, more equitable and more proportional, and to make it even more effective, meditating on costs and undermining our own externality, our society's failure to act effectively. They are measures, obviously, close to a presuppositionary accompanying law, but because of its urgency, because of its transcendence, it seems to us very opportune that they can be applied as soon as possible, as soon as possible. And, therefore, welcome follow a path of urgency like that which is being laid down today by the Government. It is a decree that obviously works to cover this situation of presuppositional prorogation, as it also did at the time another decree of supplemental credence, or as it was also done from this inter-departmental action plan to re-establish parties. It is important that the Government of the country work to implement policies to ensure that the day-to-day life of our citizens, Catalans and Catalans, follows as best possible. In addition, this set of measures proposed today and proposed an increase of €90_million per year; major tickets will be provided to the business sectors that are expected to have greater economic capacity: commercial aviation companies, banks, gambling companies and large investment funds. We ask a little more of those they have. And these major entries we want them to..., the government wants them to be used to guarantee the level of performance of the public services, which cannot be held today with the accounts extended due to lack of presuppositional credit. In concrete terms, around €90_million will be used to finance these 85_millions of the deployment of the nine phases of guaranteed citizenship income. We take advantage of the scarce powers we have on the part of the Generality in fiscal matters to make a significant contribution to developing policies to reduce social inequalities and redistribution of wealth. And we also, on the other hand, take tax benefits as instruments conducive to social policies and not to favour large businesses as often as we see with tax benefits that are taken advantage of by the State. In the article according to the decree that we are now trying or proposing to approve, the Department of Economy and History proposes to extend the social coverage of the water canon from 37,000 families to 60,000 families. Until now, they have benefited from this social pensioner and retired low-income or family rate where all the members were at a standstill, and this proposal to extend the social rate also allows us to incorporate family units that are in a situation of economic vulnerability. Thus, more than twenty-thousand additional families will be able to enjoy this social rate. For another band, as we also commented earlier, the first and third points of the second article make a substantial contribution to the territorial rebalancing of our country trying to help an area such as the North Bank, of the Ribera d'Ebre, a double-punished area. On the one hand, as is well known, the deindustrialisation, the closure of the Ercros company, a company that had occupied thousands of workers for more than a hundred years and which, unfortunately, has already closed at this time, and, on the other hand, a long time ago suffered the fire of five thousand hectares, four thousand of which are concentrated at the municipal term of Flix. And, in any case, highlight that this reduction of the water canon and this reduction of the residue canon are very opportune for the type of industries that can potentially be located at the municipal term of Flix, and of course these initials will significantly improve Flix's competitiveness to attract new investments, especially in the field of the chemical sector. Article 3, as has also been mentioned, minimises tax avoidance in empty habitats. You know that the ownership funds until now are exempt from paying the tax on empty housing, and so at this point they will tax there, and contribute 3,2_million euros more to the Government of the Generality's arks. Also - it has already been commented on in addition - the increase in the number of documented legal acts, which has also been proposed for other groups, and it seems to me that it is obviously the most substantial, quantitatively, part of what is proposed today. And finally, a package of three measures from the later articles of the decree, aimed at improving the fight against fraud and generating more fiscal pressure on the gambling sector, pushing 15_per_cent of the tax on bets and deploying a whole series of measures that will allow the Generality of Catalonia's tax administration to be more effective and more effective in the fight against fraud in the field of gambling. And I end up putting a lot of value into these measures which have been incorporated into this decree and agreed to the Department of Economics and History its critical and constant review of our tax system, this will of continuous improvement done with rigour, with precision surgical, which shows that obviously taxation, as practically all to life, as more to the better, as more towards citizens and citizens better, because women better respond to their needs. And to highlight above all the social orientation of these proposals, in order to make taxation one of the most effective means of combating social inequalities, measures which will allow us to transfer resources from the business sectors to the most disadvantaged social sectors, which will allow us to spend money from banks, investment funds, gambling companies, aviation companies and families with greater economic vulnerability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.19.0	Thank you, Mr. Saved. Finally it is the return of Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, counselor, vice president, I don't know if..., maybe because I'll catch up with you later on or because this come from the summer and that we all already have, let's say another air, also those flirts that come to us from Madrid, I think, Mrs. Romero, Mr. Cid..., maybe if you had to hear the airs that would come to us very different. And from the start, if this has to go well for us in Catalonia, so look, hey, hey? [[Rialles.]] Mr. Cano, I know it's hard, but there's plenty of time left for you to stand in opposition, huh? Madrid is clear. And here, as they continue to make these numbers, it seems to me that they have plenty of time left to stand in opposition. [[Greetings.]] I'm having a hard time, huh? Look, this validation of today's law decree, which, as we've seen, has, will have ample support, right? , but it is essential in a situation like the one we currently have, of presuppositional prorogation. And we can actually make changes in the areas of the taxes that we are dealing with, which we are dealing with; in very little measure, but we are dealing with. And this government does, because this government rules and has to do this job. It may be recalled that this figure only allows us these modifications and ensures that it does not affect key or relevant taxes – then I will talk about it. In concrete terms, and in the case we are dealing with, it has been widely said, are the taxes that are the subject of residuals, water, empty habitats and NOx emissions – and the surrenders, such as documented legal acts. But what I wanted to comment on today is that the volume, the tax tickets that we have, that come to the Generalitat, have different origins. The first are the appropriate taxes, managed by the tax agency; as we have said, large establishments, empty habitats, NOx or sweetened drinks, which we talked about in an inquiry last Tuesday. Most of these taxes, under unconstitutionality resources, suspensions, different feelings; that is, a low or very low margin of manoeuvre. Taxes managed by the tax agency, which are imposed by estates and donations, assets, property transfers, documented legal acts and some on the game. The most interesting, however, especially for the volume of recap, are the taxes transferred to animals made for the State from the financing system. Of these, obviously, there is autonomous participation, such as the IRPF, VAT and some on tobacco, hydrocarbons, electricity. Mirin, the import contract of the total tax receipts in the year 2018, without taking into account the cancellations for the Constitutional, etcetera..., we speak of 23,196.1_million euros, a 6_percent higher than in 2017. The managers for the tax agency suppose 3,451_million euros, a 14.88_per_cent. And only the taxes have an impact, with almost 150_million euros, of 0.64_per_cent. It is fixed that the resources subject to the system of beasts, that is, those that are under the control of Madrid, suppose 19,354.4 million euros, that means a management of 85_per_cent of all the recaptancy at the tax level. As you can see, the level of state control – here too has been said – is important. Our margin of manoeuvre is left in a 15_per_cent escàs. Therefore, focusing on emergency measures such as these, Mr. Santiago Rodríguez, is almost a necessity, if we really want to give response to the people of Catalonia, to which we have the obligation to serve from the government. I think that we could agree that these measures of political action, of exercising the real policy of impact, in a real Catalonia, with a real government, is what has an influence on the themes, obviously, presuppositions and recaptatories, which are the ones that allow us to return the public services of quality. But let me summarise that with only a solid fiscal strategy and, I must add, independent we can fully guarantee this welfare state that as a government we have the responsibility to give to all citizens. Well, I'm going to go through the contents, because it's been discussed extensively. I believe that at this time I am talking about the tax benefits that can impact the area of the Ribera d'Ebre, in concrete terms of the municipality of Flix, which are also affected by the fire in Ribera d'Ebre, Garrigues, Segria, I think it is a good measure, a boost to the reindustrialisation of the area, an area that has been for many years also one of the economic motors in that area, and that now the Government has to be on its side. It goes through a residual canon control theme and a part also with a reducing coefficient in the water. But for the water canon there is also a share of the social fare that I think is very interesting that it was also taken into account. These measures... obviously need to be taken to increase the recovery. It can't be done any other way, Mr. Cano. If we bring them from one place, we have to put them in another, and we have to give the services they play. In this case, the need to cover it with guaranteed income commitments makes it necessary to give it a response with this reversion of some credits, which we need about 85_million euros. This is done by modifying the tax on empty habitats. I think it's a measure that we can all agree on, with beginning to record the big empty floor holders, the ownership funds. I think this formula will finance... now is a good time because they can also be passive subjects of the tribute. It has an impact, approximately, of about 3_million euros. The issue of the NOx tax of commercial aviation, to continue on the line already set for this government of the fight against climate change and on the line of the green taxation. Let's focus where we can. Obviously, the most juicy part is all that you see with documented legal acts. There's been a lot of talk about it, and I think there's a lot of consensus in this little guy. And it does allow us to have, let us say, an important contribution. For what he does at the game – and it has already been talked about – there is an estimate of the recaptator impact with the modification of the type over 1,3_million euros. But I also think it's interesting to resume, as announced to the later Economic Commission, with the new guidelines of the Pla de lutte against tax fraud 19-2022..., in which, therefore, some control measures are in place, which I believe is also good for the Administration, let's say, controlled what is the volume of activity in this line and subservient the rule of merit of the tax on this game, conditioning it also that there are no tax debts. In the matter of sanctioning rules, as has also been explained, the alleged infringement, also controlled in order to have control over this tax. I believe that they are obvious measures, with which the same country and the same line, as we say, to carry these resources..., is to which they carry us. Finally, Vice-President, our parliamentary group, Junts per Catalunya, will give support, as it cannot otherwise be, to the validation of this decree. Know that we value very much, also for our part, this government's effort to find the necessary balance with this small margin of manoeuvre. It's that we're talking about a 15-per-cent! We don't really have to fit in with the magnitude of what we're talking about. We are focusing on a 15-percent of this total, of this volume of recaptancy, therefore, to carry out the measures that the citizens of Catalonia deserve. And this, lords and lords of Ciutadans, also forms part of the real Catalonia, forms part of the real Catalonia that you need that you are continually telling us and that you know them perfectly. We know what the issue of schools is, we know how it is working at the level of waiting lists. We recognize the work we do, which is done. You're the only one who puts sticks to the wheels. I hope that some day they will make proposals in the right place; I believe that this government and this Parliament would be doing very well. But this is really, as I say, the real Catalonia, that it has to manage a very small part of this recap, that it is under a very outdated finance model and that we should not talk and update, and that we should give real answers to the people who live in Catalonia every day. And so long as they're federalists, constitutionalists or independents: it's our job, and this government is what it does. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Once the debate is over, we shall proceed to the vote. We called for a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, we'll go to the vote. According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules of Procedure, as you know, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and that the votes denied are obviously in favour of the derogation. So let's proceed to the vote on Decree Ill 12/2019. The vote begins. Decree Ilei 12/2019_is validated by 86 votes in favour, 40 against and 4 abstentions. According to Rule 158.4 of the Rules, and once the decree has been validated, I ask the chamber if there is any parliamentary group that wants to process this decree as the bill. [[Pause.]] Don't you? All right. So it's not going to be treated like a bill, and it's given by validated Decree 12/2019. [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the actions of the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food in relation to the management of the territory]] [[302-00129/12]] Let's move to the next item on the order of the day, which is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the actions of the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food in relation to the management of the territory. Presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance, to expose it has the word of the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.22.0	Thank you, President. Councillor Jordà, members of the Government, deputies, deputies, a first place thanks to the papers presented for the deputies of the Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia, the transactions to which we have arrived..., some accepted papers and some rejection as well. Let me begin with yesterday's intervention by the chairman of our parliamentary group, Mr Miquel Iceta, who gave the control session that had already been repeated fifteen days ago that we have a problem about the table: that we have a part of the territory, a part of Catalonia that feels abandoned, that feels threatened and that has some added difficulties to address. Thirteen countries have lost more than five per cent of the population since 2010, and obviously we also reported that this has not been a priority... rural development, the fight against the abandonment of towns and cities, has not been one of the priorities of this government. I think it's a finding, and that's why we're presenting this young man today, as well, we're going to continue to debate a rural development young man. We also come here to claim that it is fulfilling the commitments. As early as 2017 we also presented a motion, we agreed to push a series of measures, some more concrete, that have not been completed, more concept, that some of us have started to do, but that it would also be good to put more thread into the needle. Our young man's goal is nothing more than... to make an endless list of concrete actions, which would then disdeserve a little the final goal that we have to agree on among all of us, but to define a joint strategy. Define a country strategy. See where we are, do a rigorous analysis and ask for the involvement of the president of the government, first place, and the joint government, with the leadership of the Department of Agriculture, seems good to us, but with complicity, with the involvement of everyone. We don't know if the strategy is that of "the country saw that the president explained to us yesterday, or the strategy is that of today we will agree, and many points we will approve of today's motion, the interdepartmental commission, and find a space of reflection and concreteness. Therefore, first of all: regret a certain lack of coordination or a lack of coherence in the President's speech with which we will today agree and vote here. Is it your point that we're chasing this young man? Home, to find that we have a country problem, to find that we have a depopulation problem, to find that the repte de pays, one of the main reptes de pays for the next years will be depopulation. And the rise of social inequalities, but also the territorial ones. The increase of inequalities, of foreign investment, which was previously commented on by the company Alicia Romero, between the Metropolitan Area and the rest of the country; the inequality also in public investment, in quality and proximity of basic public services, etc. Therefore, a territorial fracture that can be addressed, and also some difficulties of saturation of large capitals, infrastructures, environment, contamination and this also brings a lack of attention in the management of the territory. Thirdly, another objective we have is a change of mindset. We have a change of mind at the time of how the counselors plan, execute their plans for governance from each department. We can have a joint visit, a decentralized visit, a territorial visit of all and each of the actions and installations that we have. Therefore, rural perspective, of the Generality, and also to get it to the rest of the administrations. There is a regrettable lack of coordination – local councils, assemblies, parliaments... It can't be, the Generality can't do it all and it doesn't have to do everything, but it has to lead a joint response from all administrations. It's not just a problem in Catalonia, as we said and as we said yesterday, but it's a problem that's in Catalonia, Spain and Europe. Therefore, we need coordinated responses. And, then, the fourth of our goals is, above all, to move from words to facts. Let us move from motions and approvals to concrete proposals with this inter-departmental committee, which is created, but which should have it as its own. We will certainly approve concrete actions; timetables to take them forward; financing necessary to take it forward; fiscal and financial measures, which we already give confidence to the Government because they must be, not a measure, not a two, but we must go and see what abscess they must have and what margin of time we give; legislative measures also and, obviously, coordination measures between all administrations. Therefore, in the end, this motion wants to define strategy, define projects, concrete measures, define assumptions so as to stop having an empty, oblivious and abandoned Catalonia, to move on to a balanced, cohesive and just country for the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.23.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word, first of all, the deputy Francesc Viaplana, of the Groupe Parlamentari Republicà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.24.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, depopulation must be treated as a country policy. This is the will of this government, and it is because facing depopulation is an obligation if we want to have a balanced and sustainable country, since we do not forget that the main managers of the territory are its inhabitants. A few days ago, in an interview, in Marc Castellnou, head of the GRAF, he made some statements that I think are totally attached to this young man. He said: "Without orderly and living landscapes, fires cannot be extinguished. The bombers are the answer, they didn't solve it, which is the territorial management. And also add: "Society must give life to the territory; if the territory is dying, the territory is cream. That is to say, combating depopulation is indispensable for the management of the territory, and with this objective, it created the past legislature and the hand of Constellera Serrat, the Interdepartmental Commission on Rural Depopulation. We agree that it would reinforce the role and momentum of the tasks of this committee and its working groups. And in this sense, we must take advantage of the work done, and therefore we cannot ignore the conclusions of the Day "We repopulate the territory, which I cannot detail for the time limitation. Nor can it be obvious that this Parliament has approved the new Law of Agrarian Spades, and that one of its objectives is to be a tool to fight against depopulation. For one band, based on the protection of the agrarian space, which must give legal certainty to those who develop the agricultural activity, and for the other, through the inn under the land register, which must facilitate access to young entrepreneurs who want to incorporate into the agrarian sector. And now I'll detail the position, but before I do, I want to thank Congressman Ordeig for his willingness to agree. However, at the first point we cannot support it, since, in our view, the function of this Parliament is not to complain, but to propose measures for the execution of them by the Government. For what it does in the second and third points, they have accepted the papers, as it is obvious, we will vote in favour, since we are totally in agreement that it is necessary to strengthen the role and the impetus of the tasks of the Interdepartmental Commission on Rural Depopulation, led by the Department of Agriculture and with the participation of all the departments involved. At point 4 we have given a deal, as we agree that this is a unique occasion to open this space to the participation of the agents of the territory involved in order to reinforce the tasks of the said commission with a broader and more transversal look. We will also vote in favour of point 5, as we have also reached a compromise. But at 5th, we can't give support for the following reasons. For one thing, for what it does to the financing measures. The Català Institute of Finance already has generalised adient products to finance projects in the agricultural and agri-food sector in the country, both for the financing of investment and for those in need of movement. And, for tax measures, tax incentives for businesses or self-employed persons are mainly in the area of corporate tax and in the area of corporate income tax. For what it does in the first, the autonomous communities do not have the regulatory capacity to regulate their elements; for what it does in the second, the tax on the income of physical persons is also a state tax given in part to the autonomous communities, which delegate the regulatory competence to regulate certain elements, but cannot establish tax incentives, concretely quota deductions that take into account the business activity of the taxpayer. Finally, it must be remembered that the creation of tax benefits entails difficulties of management and proof, for which reason, we see more appropriate use of the way of spending, is to say, with the establishment of lines of help, that it is a system that allows to narrow, manage and control better its recipients. At point 5.b we will vote in favour, since our message was accepted, in the sense of putting in value the Law of Agrarian Thirsts. With point 6 we totally agree, since, from the suspension of the General Plan of Forest Policy by the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, and recently for the Supreme Court, the Department of Agriculture is working very intensively to update and make more participative this plan, as it incorporates measures that are fully in force and necessary. At point 7 if 'nsha accepted our statement, for which we would vote favorably. And it's that, in addition to the economic aid, as the young man proposed, he wants to rethink the post-fire measures, they learn what he's been through. And these measures can only be elaborated with those who know the problem of the territory, that is, the local administrations– I am talking about municipalities, district councils, deputies– and those who work there– farmers, managers and forest owners. And, in addition, the progress that the Department of Agriculture already has in setting a set of actions aimed at recovering the productive capacity of the affected area. These actions are concrete in the cleanness of cremated vegetation, the recovery of conreu plots, the restitution of irrigated fields and the recovery of ramadere farms. And finally, at point 8, we will also vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.25.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of Deputy Marc Solsona, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.26.0	Okay. Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, well, therefore, in this motion presented by the Socialist Group, it is also about the effects caused by the recent fires of the Ribera d'Ebre, Segria and Garrigues. So, from here too, so our support would be the whole concept of recovery from this space. Today – today too and yesterday – there is the fire of the Chapellas; also..., we cannot ignore it, because it can also be important. And also, this week he made two years of the fires of Horta de Sant Joan. I, from here, also what I would like to do is a felt and excited reminder, therefore, to the GRAF bombers: the David, the Pau, the Jaume, the Jordi and the Ramon, who died now ten years ago in this fire. And I also express our record and continue to support families and friends of the whole Bomber Cos. Mr. Ordeig: This young man you're presenting is a proper young man – I already told you yesterday – that you're not opportunistic, huh? Therefore, I understand that it is a young man who emanates from the inquiry and that, even though it seemed strange, the motion actually speaks of the inquiry that was made, let us say, at the last plenary. So, let's just say, that everything has a point of coherence, and also the will, at the time of accepting the different statements and transactions, so, makes it a purposeful will at the time of actually wanting this young man to pull forward. It is spoken in the youth..., in the inquiry was spoken of this rural Catalonia, of this 80_per_cent, and what I would like to do here is an element, a comment, an observation, a self-criticism, if it is also appropriate, at the political level, to say that, that this rural Catalonia, which amounts to 80_per_cent, cannot serve only as an excuse to make policies to clear the consciences of urban Catalonia. I think that rural Catalonia should not be that subsidiary or assisted Catalonia, but that it should also be that Catalonia which generates, creates wealth, and also creates opportunities. To understand the territory as a territory of opportunity also means that it is not only when it comes to territories, that it seems to me that urban Catalonia is also territories, but we always identify it as if it were that other part, which is very big, which is 80_per_cent..., as a toll to pay for conservation and protection. We're something else. And we know that we come and we are from the areas of this rural Catalonia of 80_per_cent, so we know that there are opportunities, that there are many ideas, a lot of initiative, a lot of talent, a lot of gain in doing things well, and that, therefore, we also know how to value, even though sometimes there are interventions like the main one that Mr Ordeig has also made today, which are not so apocalyptic, but there is also a vision at the time of being able to face the challenges of the future with certain guarantees. And as the counselor said in her last question, for a very little reason we have since the Department of Agriculture, they do a lot of things. Therefore, it seems that it is one of the departments with the highest profitability at the time of being able to execute and arrive... with concrete policies. A young woman who neglects the theme of the Interdepartmental Commission of Rural Depopulation, which was created in 2017. He doesn't show up at the police station. He kept getting rid of the papers, which accepted this incorporation, because we understand it was nuclear. That the same Socialist Group, which was also proposing this commission, obviated at the time of speaking of depopulation, the commission that had proposed also in 2017... So what we're doing is incorporating this concept as the nuclear element that was created, which has held two meetings... we can't say that in two years nothing has been done. It's not two years that I haven't had any kind of interference, and I can't remember them every time... but it's obvious, and so... that there's this will. That, moreover, is a young man who has had a sequence in this important enough plenary, because we have had in the control management the spokesman of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr Iceta, and the president of our government, so also here debating depopulation. We also had it then, in the debate of rural Catalonia... – not of ideal Catalonia, which would be another thing, eh? "But, in any case, let's say you're recurring. And it seems to be, so the Socialist Party wants to stand up as the voice of the struggle against depopulation. I..., it seems to me that with the consensus approval of this motion we make that the voice of concern for the struggle against depopulation does not emanate from a group but from a political will of the Parliament of Catalonia, and, logically, also from the Government. We, at the level of the issues, like the deputy Viaplana, what we say is that point number 1... the Parliament is not here to regret, here the Parliament is to propose and to ascertain, if appropriate, facts. Therefore, I would ask you to accept point 1 as well, because it is a little decent, it is a little political for what it does to this Parliament. So, nothing more. When we talk about cross-cutting policies, we don't just have to deal with rural issues either, because, if not, we're making the point too small, huh? , which really requires this. We should talk about territories; we should talk about optical fiber, which means connectivity; we should talk about public transport, which means mobility; we should talk about investments in equipment, which means searching; we should talk about the end of being able to work, study, estimate, live, and not just live, with dignity, within the country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.27.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then, to fix his position, the deputy Javier Rivas of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.28.0	President, Councillor, Members; good morning to all. It seems that, for once, we all agree, we have a problem with the flows of population on our land, but it seems to me – I think – that ‘we are not going to understand each other. The PSC presents us with a moved motion on the rural world as a tool for territorial rebalancing. Well, we think it's opportune, we think it's appropriate. From the Citizens' Group we have already presented enough initiatives with the prism a little wider trying to break that agriculture/rural binomial, trying not to get into that blue elephant, of Lakoff's thought, haven't we? But I repeat, we agree with it, we will vote in favour of it, no inconvenience, but it seems to me that we are not going to understand each other. In 2007, being president of the government Rodríguez Zapatero, with great consensus of all groups, they made a law that was called the Law on Sustainable Development of the Rural World. We are 2017, it has no regulations, it has never had them; it has no budget; it is not deployed. The most rural thing this law has is the dust it's taken on the shelf, there's nothing else. It's a fake. At home of all, in Catalonia, connoisseurs and participants also of the same problems, we made an interdepartmental commission to coordinate policies of rural development, councillor. They have two meetings and no performance. There's something else you can do, too, isn't there? And with the considerations accepted by the PSC, what it does is to derive all the points from this committee that we have already said that it is not really a short time ago but nothing, is it not? I don't think we're going to understand each other. I think what's important is not to create tinlates where to put people and warm stomachs and cool hearts. I think the important thing is to be useful. I think the important thing is that we have a problem and that we have to solve it sooner than later because the tide isn't waiting for us, huh? It is a step forward, yes, indeed that these issues are coming to the political agenda, is it not? It seems that this is a very recurrent subject recently, but I repeat that I think we are not going to understand each other. The parties on the left give me the feeling that they look at the rural world as a big theme park; the parties on the right look at it as the back garden of the barbecue; the independenceists..., look, no comments, I have the feeling that they see us as a fixed photo, as a goyesque image, as a carpetovetonic image in which they ask us to root, that we stay there for nothing as if we were the guardians of the territory. And let's learn to play Fonsi's Slowness, with the grail and the diatonic accordion and that of dessert a small pot of ratifia and that the weekend will come to take us a photo to put on Instagram. And I don't think so. I believe that the citizens of the rural world have no roots, we have feet; the roots have the lettuces, and what we aspire to from Citizens is that people move, that people live and decide where they want to live without observing excessive differences between the rural and urban worlds, right? That is why, in the last programme, we incorporate it into our electoral programme as a matter of state with more than two hundred concrete, objective measures, right? Citizens is a party that is really focused on this theme, isn't it? Previously, fifty, sixty years ago, if a rural child was asked what you want to be older, he would say, mostly, a farmer, someone would say that he wanted to be a doctor, someone would tell you that he wanted to be a priest. Why? Because his vision did not go far beyond the bell tower of his church, but that moment has passed. We are in an information society, we are in a communication society and in a knowledge economy. I mean with this that today it is possible to correct it. I think that 'we are not going to understand each other, I have repeated it several times, it is not a phrase of mine. It's a phrase that Mr. Cayo said when three politicians were going to visit him at home to ask him for the vote in a novel by Miguel Delibes called Mr. Cayo's disputed vote. If you want to work for a future, count on us sincerely and without limitations. If you still want to see agriculture and not the farmers, I will answer you with what Mr Cayo said: "We are not going to understand each other. Deliberes has more novels than Mr. Cayo's disputed vote, there is another that is much sadder and I never resent, which is called The Innocent Saints. We're still in time to correct the course we take on our land, but we have to do it and we can't wait another second, counselor. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.29.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of Deputy Marc Parés, of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.30.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. Well, this is a young man who's already made the advance that our group basically agrees with, if you let him say that for us he's a little ambitious and we have some discrepancy in focus. But it also allows me to reserve a good part of the proposals relating to these discrepancies for the reason that our parliamentary groups will defend on the next item on the agenda on rural Catalonia. A young man who already puts the advance that the focus in the fight, the focus of the fight against depopulation in an element that for us is key, is essential, that is territorial equity, the fight against inequalities that express themselves on the territory. Well, in the first place I would like to emphasize that we share the feeling of linking the actions of the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food with the management of the territory. All that's what you do in your seat title and then we don't just find it in some of the proposals and that's why I'm talking about model discrepancies. First of all, for us this is a focus that should be heard that rural communities must be productive. Productive also in the primary sector, not only obviously, and that is why we are talking about the multifunctionality of the rural world. But in rural areas there must have been agricultural, timber and forestry activities which must be productive, viable and sustainable. And in this sense we need to know, in your own mind, what is the model of agriculture and industry that defends you, whether it is the intensive model oriented to large agro-industrial productions or the extended model of local production and quality; what role do the different actors in the food chain play, whether we advance or want to advance towards a just agricultural price that I reverted to the producers, on the page, or look at another band facing the market positions of the oligopolies of distribution and agro-industry. What do we do with the store? We continue to bet on a country model where the pig cabin surpasses the human population and concentrates its discards on certain regions or we start re-engineering this model. We, therefore, believe that the management of the territory in Catalonia is, among others, through the primary sector, but at the same time we also understand that the agricultural, branch and forestry policy is clearly a tool for the management of the territory; it is, it is through the agricultural, branch and forestry policy that we determine the landscape, that we order the uses on the space, that we relate to the resources of this area, with water, with the sun, with the forests, that we configure the social and economic activity of the territory, that we provide opportunities for development or that we affect biodiversity and the prevention of fires. And in this sense the bet for agroforestry mosaic structures seems to us to be highly beneficial. But we didn't just find that focus on your young man either. But, well, it doesn't have to be that we share most of the points of his motion and that, in fact, we believe is complementary to what we defend later. We share with you that this government does not have a country project and, if it does, unfortunately, it is a model that obliterates rural Catalonia and does not work to change the dynamics that this empty Catalonia is taking. And as you are also asking the Government to act, to convene the Interdepartmental Commission on Rural Depopulation and to work, but to do so with concrete actions and with funding, because, if not, there is not enough dialogue with the territory – which needs to be dialogue – but here we have resources. We agree with you that, in order to combat depopulation, fiscal, financial and legislative measures and specific responses for territories with characteristics and problems that are also specific, such as micro-populations, which do not speak to their youth, and we believe that we should put them in value. And I end up with the only difference of funds that we surely have in the points of his youth, which is forestry policy, in point 6, in which we would vote against. In the first place we have to say that forestry policy in Catalonia, unfortunately, shines by its absence, a fact that is extremely difficult in a country where the forest surface occupies 64_percent of the territory and three_quarters_parts of these forests are privately owned. We do not believe that the current General Forest Policy Plan is the instrument of forest policy that Catalonia needs; a plan that inherits the forest management model of when DARP was in the hands of Unió Demorática de Catalunya; a plan that has been judicially suspected because it made sense the participation of social and environmental entities; a plan that does not understand that the value of the forest cannot be only economic – which must be – but that it does not mean the social, environmental, landscape and ecological functions of the forest. This is not the forest management tool the country needs. We believe that we cannot do forest policy through this instrument – as you say – but that what we need is to modify, revise, this instrument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.31.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Nàtalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP – Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.32.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. The depopulation I see also affects the Ple. Out of jokes, today two important motions on the rural world. According to work for journalist Roger Tugas a Nació Digital, between 2008 and 2018, 172 municipalities have lost more than 10_per_cent of the population in a decade. The town that most people have lost is Vallfogona de Riucorb, in the Conca del Barberà, which has gone from 129 inhabitants to 85, a 34,1_per_cent less, followed by the Figuera, in the Priorat, which has fallen from 156 to 104 inhabitants. At the regional level, both Alta Ribagorça and Terra Alta lose more than one of their inhabitants in this decade. Often from Barcelona, from metropolitan areas you see the rural world as a space, as a place that is almost folkloric, as a space that takes you to the middle of the rest, and you know perfectly well that you are far more than that. Where the subway isn't up, we live more than 2.5 million people. The changes in Catalan society have been profound and structural for years. In terms of income, the most impoverished area of Catalonia is the Lands of the Ebre, and when we talk about depopulation, more than jobs, reports, support measures, aids, which is to plant which territorial model of country we want. It is clear that the current city model with Barcelona at the centre is not working and will never promote the country's territorial balance. A model that can think and rethink. The depopulation does not stop accelerating and to more rural capitalism, because they cannot speak only of the rural world speaking of agriculture, speaking of ramaderia. Do not call a forest model or agrari exclusively, call a life model. Marta Rojals explained it very well: that everyone who wants to stay in the village can stay there, and everyone who wants to go back there can go back there; and that went much further beyond agriculture. Let's keep talking at the next young lady's debate. Finally, on the concrete basis of the PSC, we are, in general terms, in favour of a few points. I on the questions of the fiscal measures caldria pay attention to the conclusions of the General Assembly of the Association of Micropopulations which has just made a discussion on the fiscal measures that we should also take into account in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.33.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally it is the turn of the deputy Alejandro Fernández, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.34.0	Now. Perfect. Well, thank you very much. First of all, to thank Mr Ordeig for his concern that we also understand that it is timely and that, in the end, he raises a subject that has already been dealt with in the previous parliamentary term and with a profound debate; that with a deep debate with an idea of background, and that is that when it comes to depopulation he is accustomed to thinking about the imaginary collection that only affects Terol, which only affects Osca, which only affects certain provinces because it affects the whole of the province, and, in turn, Catalonia – that it is a problem that is concentrated not in the whole of a province in its conjunction but in very concrete areas – it seems that this does not happen, and is difficult, and has an impact on the vertebracy of the territory, has an impact on forest policy. And it's obvious that more than the toilets that can be done to the government, which I obviously share, I think now is the time to try to come to an agreement with this text, that we share and that we believe, moreover, that it is also perfectly complementary with a much broader motion that the Group of Common We can put forward, that we believe is excessive; they have a certain tendency to make motions that ultimately do not feel fully operational, despite the fact that they can share the content. In any case, these points that are planted and that are badly put back on the political agenda when a disgrace passes – we should also be aware that it cannot happen again –..., so we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.35.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, the newly proposed deputy, Óscar Ordeig, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.36.0	Thank you, President. Well, with the time I have, first of all, I think it's difficult, with a young man, to see how there are large doses of coincidence but also large doses of discrepancy. To Congressman Parés. Listen, he only told me about agriculture. That's what Congresswoman Sánchez said. Listen, we're not all pages, are we? , that I live in a village of thirty thousand inhabitants and I would like, when I go to the dermatologist, not to move two hours. [[Greetings.]] So, listen, the agricultural sector is important, yes, but it's a part – it's a part. And what's going on? And we say: Agriculture leads it because in its day to the interdepartmental commission we decided that agriculture led it, but it's not agriculture. What is the assumption of the Agricultural Councillor? It's not that; it's industry, it's tourism, it's education, it's salvation, it's territories, it's social services, it's justice, it's local world..., it's all that affects life, the quality of life of people and territories. And that's why I say to them: it's not just the department, it's that we want the department..., the government to make a report, make a document, and this was the document that you brought to Brussels, that you brought to the Congress of Deputies and that you brought to the Chambers, all at once, leading a joint and comprehensive response. As Congressman Solson said, this is a fight of all; different models but shared objectives. What we lose – we lose – is what we lose – and every day we lose more. I'll give you an example. Now it turns out he's got a lot of fashion going into the barns, checking out our barns, huh? On the part of a sector of animalists, causing not only harm to the sector, but also harm to our pages, but also an important problem of animal health. We also claim that you take action in this regard. Therefore, the trend is perverse and we lose it, and it is not just a question of agriculture, but it is a question of integral answers, of integral solutions, in all spheres. Mr. Viaplana, fiscal and financial measures. We have just adopted tax measures precisely with the previous decree. So, it's possible, it's possible, it's possible, it's just done. So let's go see if you can ask the Congress of Deputies or if they can be applied by the same government. In any case, thanks to all for the contributions, interventions and shared struggles. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. Mrs. Segovia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.38.0	Yes, President; to ask for a separate vote on point 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.39.0	Point 6; all right. [[Bernat Sole and Barril ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Solé...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.40.0	Yes, President; to ask for a separate vote from points 1 and 5a, which could be voted jointly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.41.0	All right. [[Long break.]] We will vote, therefore, first, points 1 and 5a, then point 6 and the rest of the motion. We vote, therefore, on points 1 and 5.a. The vote begins. Points 1 and 5a were approved by 68 votes to 63, with no abstentions. We're voting point six now. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 119 votes to 8, with 4 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved; this is 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the inquiry to the Government on rural Catalonia]] [[302-00134/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on rural Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. In order to expose her, Mr. Marc Parés has the word. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.42.0	Well, thank you, President. One time the hemicicle has been depopulated, let's continue talking about the rural Catalonia, the Catalonia that is buiding from the people and that in our hearing has been too oblique, and that can understand the situation. But how to do it? Look, the problem, as we understand it, is that the empty Catalonia is also the enveloped Catalonia and the impoverished Catalonia. And, therefore, what we have here is a question of inequality manifested over the territory. And that's important, because the answer to inequality is not territorial balance, but territorial equity; it's to say that you see where you see the territory you have access to the same income levels and the same services. It is not a question of homogenising the territory balancing the distribution of the population, the economic activity, but of putting into value the specificities of each place and ensuring that the geographical variability is not converted into a determining element of social inequalities, which is what is happening now in the empty Catalonia itself and is what can be reversed in order to fight against rural depopulation. This is why we propose a motion in which its first and most significant point is a territorial equity plan with measures at the country level to eradicate inequalities, to promote the settlement and fixation of the population to the rural environment, ensuring the full connectivity of these territories and supporting small municipalities, especially micro-populations. The main measure of this territorial equity plan that we propose is a programme that promotes projects of integral and transversal intervention to the most vulnerable territories through a fund of financing that contemplates both public investment and a cross-cutting focus of the set of policies needed to address the problems in each territory. And we believe that this program should begin with those territories that most need it, among which we want to put the emphasis on the vegherity of the lands of the Hebrews, where we believe that, among others, there are a number of acts of shock for what it does to internet coverage, sanitation, accessibility, services and equipment. There is also a specific programme of forest management in the Lands of Ebre; there is a territorial authority for mobility in the Lands of Ebre; there is an industrialisation plan that encloses the polygons of Camposines and of Catalonia Sud; and there is a need to adapt, among others, the port of Alfacs, and there is also a fair transition plan for how nuclear shutdowns are produced. Therefore, Mr Ordeig, we do not speak only of agriculture. As I said before, however, the territorial management of the gutted Catalonia also passes to understand that this must be a productive territory, also in the primary sector, which must be viable and sustainable. Because we have to hear that agriculture, timber and forestry, as I said, play a key role in sustaining life, for food sovereignty, for the preservation of the landscape, for biodiversity or for the prevention of fires. And that's why we're proposing a whole series of measures to move on to a just farm price, because pages and pages, producers, can win what they deserve. And that's why they must be brave and face the oligopolis of distribution and agro-industry, fighting against the abuse they exercised for their dominant position. And we also propose measures to encourage the production, transformation, distribution and consumption of local and proximity products. And here the labelling, traceability and fighting against food fraud are key and we need more resources. For what it does to the branch, we believe that it is necessary to bet on the extensive branch, with silvopastura conveniences, with mobile and decentralized escorts and, above all, distinguishing small farms of extensive or semi-intensive branch from large intensive farms. It cannot be that, in the administrative procedures, in the inspections and in the aids, we treat each other the same when they have nothing to see. And, as far as forest management is concerned, we are very clear: we need a forestry policy in Catalonia that we do not currently have, and this cannot go through a general forest policy plan that has been suspected for the sake of justice due to lack of participation. It is necessary to review and update this plan with a broad and plural participatory process, and the objective of which must be to make the management and exploitation of forest masses viable and sustainable, preserving a part of the forests protected by their natural evolution, promoting multifunctionality and recovering habitats such as riparian forests, agroforestry transition systems or connecting spaces. I'm done. Because all this has a real territorial impact, it is urgent to deploy the planned territorial planning to the Law of Agrarian Spaces, starting with those territories that most need it, such as the Lands of the Ebre, the Lands of Lleida, the High Pirinaeus or the Penedes. Without this Catalonia, without rural Catalonia, we are not. Don't let it go on emptying. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, it has the word, first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.44.0	Well, thank you. Member, look, I'll tell you something with a lot of affection. With what I cherish and respect them, and we agree on so many things... but I think here is the example of what we share in the object we disagree with in the model. What is the problem with forest management, in which we were present or in which you say, if in the end it is to say: "Listen, it has been done a little or very little, there is an abandonment of the woods, that is to do a management. So I don't understand how we can't agree on this. Certain speeches that you make to the movement, to the past and this, go to the territories, go to the barns, or to the pages, to the extensive rowing, which some, many, combine with intensive rowing... So, listen, the problem is not the barns. And the pages and the farmers, according to the second five speeches, would tell them that they are totally against it. That a better management, planning, purin control, control, that there is not much concentration to certain barns, to certain places? Okay. Now, listen, precisely to the territories that are losing so much population, that there are many, that is certainly not their problem. Five hundred gatherings, five hundred towns in Catalonia have fewer than a thousand inhabitants and most people are lost. We shall vote in favour of most of the points they propose. Now, I'm also telling you: they've also made a list of measurements, little concrete, with a lot of infinity. And I'll tell you one thing: we've certainly done a more modeling reflection, than we need to find consensus, but it's that all the points you're talking about have been presented to us before. Therefore, it is not thought here that they come to find out everything, but that we have spoken enough. And I'll also tell you, maybe you've been doing some presuppositional and legislative measures, too, exactly, huh? , because we see concrete actions. So let's go back to it: we believe that there is an excessive view from the agricultural world. It's an essential part, it's a very important part, it certainly has the function of leadership and rural development, but it doesn't have to be..., it gives it an excess of leadership to the detriment of other very important elements. I would also like to say something, which I have left myself, about Mrs Sánchez's previous intervention, about the issue of power stations and its reversal. I believe that this is a fundamental issue, important, because it exemplifies very well where we have natural resources, where there has been a great deal of wealth created, the territory that has not yet returned..., there has been no counterpart or minimum – minimum – to improve the quality of life or infrastructure, in this case, of the Pyrenees. Therefore, I believe that this is an element that we have on the table, that we already have, and here there must be a legal defense and also a defense of the interests of the people in this sense. We here believe that it must also be done, it can be done, a long way in this sense. And another very important element these days that we have also visited and talked to people from the Ribera d'Ebre, Segria, the Garrigues, on the basis of the fires, of what has happened, of what has happened in the past – as has also been mentioned here to the victims of the fire of the Horta de Sant Joan – and also to those who will come, because they will come more, obviously... but, listen, this has made manifest a sense of abandonment, a sense of distention from one part of the territory, which is not exclusive to the Lands of the Ebre, but it passes to many other places. Therefore, listen, we have a problem not only of investments, of fiscal measures, of country projects, but of perception and of feeling of abandonment on the part of citizens of large parts of our territory. We therefore need to take concrete measures – concrete measures – and, above all, to change, as I said before, the country's plan to have a more territorial view. I continue to insist, it is not about making a battery of 100 measures, which is also, but it is about pushing a global project, consensus, with maximum consensus, with money, with measures of all kinds, and, therefore, what must be done is certainly not this Parliament, but what we must do, we believe, is to urge the Government to find the work table, the agents involved in it, and among all, also with the local authorities, and therefore among all to find a future project for the country, for rural development, and also, obviously, to fight against depopulation. In any case, we will vote in favour of almost all points and abstain on the issue of metropolity transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.45.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Congresswoman Irene Fornos. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.46.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Member for the presentation of this motion to improve the rural world, and I do so with the wish that this motion, which, as we all know, is the result of the inquiry presented at the end of the plenary, the fruit of the tragic and unfortunate fires in the Bank of Ebra, the Segria and the Garrigues, and, like this, other questions and questioning girls the past plenary is not only in the reaction more than justified by all the political parties present in this chamber, in a timely manner, as we have said, the fruit of a fire that has cremated more than five thousand hectares, but we are also serving everyone because we take the rural world and everything that involves – especially the world of the pages, the rural world, the most important of the administration. Counselor Jordan so we claimed it in this past Ple. From the pagery and the rural world it's spoken of a few times, I say, and we can't forget that it's a country theme that we all have to bet and work if we want to keep it. Also thank the honourable Member for his willingness at the time to work on the motions and the papers presented, which has ended up allowing us to approve most of the points of the motion, which we all end up sharing, and which thanks to the good understanding, which we all think just as we may sometimes write differently, ends up prospering and has allowed us to deal and, in short, I believe that improving the same motion. To thank him also the sensitivity to want to visualize especially some aspects more linked to the Lands of the Ebre, to the vegueria of the Lands of the Ebre, a very generous comarques but, unfortunately, we only know when we have a fire, when they take water, they put us mouthpieces, nuclear power stations or Castors. Some communities, as I said, generous with the rest of the country and often oblivious in other respects. And yesterday President Torra was also commenting on it, as a Catalan consensus and as we always have it, not only when we suffer a fire. In this House it will not only speak in this House, but also, as we have just felt, in the presentation a few moments ago for the Socialist Party Group, which also goes in the same line and some points are very similar. That is why for some things and positions, to which my partner from the Republic Group, Congressman Viaplana, has already referred, I will not mention it and, in any case, in others we have already mentioned it. I do want to highlight, however, those points of the movement that are most directed..., in the line of work of the same department from a long time ago, such as the territorialized action plans, with the aim of diversifying and boosting the rural economy for the better return, according to the specific characteristics of each area, coordinates from the local action group within the Leader program, so that the same territory that drives its innovative development, according to the characteristics of each area. Proposals that, in my opinion, are, in short, sum up that fortunately this visit of such a necessary country we all share and we are aware that the rural world must be a priority for its survival. And that they are linked, all of them, to measures, as we have often said, against depopulation, territorial balance, generational replete, and that all of them do not pass only by part of the actions of the Government, but also by all of us and our consumption responsible for products of proximity and of doing so with the guarantee that they are so, with a control throughout the course of the food that ends up in our table, made, in this case, with the creation of the Agency of Official Control of the Food Chain. Production, control and consumption of local and proximity products, putting in value both the quality and its benefits for the health of consumers, as well as ensuring their prices, which requires transparency and rigorous work, as is done with the fruit of pinyol, the fruit of lavor or the dried fruit. Obviously, in those points that make reference to the Law of Agricultural Spaces we are more than agreeable and, if in case, I would like to specify in this point, concretely..., to see the need that really needs to have a law like this. For what it does to forest management, it also agrees, to update the current plan, in any case, also to make it more participatory and to bet for the energetic benefit of forest and agricultural biomass. And I couldn't finish my intervention without referring to point 10, we're asking for measures... in this case, that a decree should apply to reverse the effects of the fires in the Ebre River. My republican company, Francesc Viaplana, has already referred, to those measures, above all aimed at the cleanness of cremated areas, the repositioning of the king, the restitution of the plots of the conreus. And all this says is that it is happening from the minute number u, from the very moment of the fire, not only with the transfer – in the territory the agricultural councillor and other members of the government –, but also – from the directors general... – that it is doing in the same territory, as I said, from the technical offices located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.47.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of MP Imma Gallardo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.48.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, advise, deputies and deputies, public accompanying us and parliamentary staff, add a little to my comment to celebrate that, in a short time, we have been able to debate and vote on these two motions referring to the rural world; therefore, thank the Member of Parliament for this opportunity. But I think the first thing we should do is define which one is rural Catalonia. Jesus'? The one from Castellví de la Marca? Golmé's? The one in the valley down there? Sort's? Is Prat del Llobregat rural or urban? The same Member of Parliament said in his question, he spoke of Catalonia eternally oblivious, of Catalonia empty, without which we are nothing, and we agree. Therefore, welcome is any opportunity to present yourself to talk about it, even though it is the result of an episode as unfortunate as the fire of the Ribera d'Ebre, the Garrigues and the Segria. During those days he spoke, and many, of the pages, we should not continue talking and, above all, of the places where the laws are made or is governed. Therefore, completely in agreement with the councilwoman, who said that perhaps a monographic debate should be put in place. I think we all agree that we have a small and very nice country, but with strong differences between some of their communities, and the rural communities represent a somewhat high percentage of the territory's strength, said Mr Solsona. In contrast to the rural with the urban we will never get out of it, but from now on, what we really want to say is that we need to recognize. What we are asking is that we also get caught, that we get tired of deciding when important issues affecting our territories are to be decided. And, above all, that it does not mean measures that have sometimes ended up testing that common sense of our forefathers, that common sense that has allowed the landscape to be preserved and the ways of doing so because the first interested ones that are the same inhabitants of the area. We adapt to the back of the 21st century, okay, but with a common sense. Why don't we start talking about territorial diversity in rural or urban labeling accounts? I should like to thank all the levels for their efforts to change this negative note with the term rural, which is like pejorative. It is necessary to value all the territory and its diversity and the work that has been done, both if the work is at sea, as with the beast, as with the camps. Do you know what's going on? That they are two very different realities, okay, but they don't have to be antagonistic, the same Counselor Jordan gave to the inquiry. She was talking about two different paradigms, the disaffection with the rural world. Okay. Living in a village is different strength than living in a city, the rhythm and quality of life, especially if it is with infants, contact with nature, and all the sounds and smells are different. Some things are probably missing, but they get caught up in other things. The question is that the tria can do it all on equal terms, because there are people who want to continue living in trades, there are people that we have been able to do our life project in a concrete territory, and I am sure that this option can end up feeling a possibility of future for many people, but it must be better things. From the start, make sure that everyone has the same opportunities, visqui on visqui, and this happens to ensure that they can make a living, whether they are born to the people and after they are formed they want to return there, as if they are looking for a different way of living. Therefore, it is not only necessary to improve communications and telecommunications, but also to promote measures that support families, entrepreneurs, businesses and students. Maybe we should start talking about positive discrimination in order to live in the second five territories. We're talking about territorial equity, okay, and we've all agreed that depopulation is a serious fact, that puts life in danger for our peoples, whether they're the Pyrenees or the plains. I don't think there's ever been a conversation like this before. And, in any case, from our group we celebrate all the actions, such as the project "Living Country", and also the initiatives that are taking place at the level of each department, such as the deployment of optical fiber or the same Law of Agrarian Thickness. Finally, to say that from Juntes to Catalunya we practically share the background of the motion and that is why we would vote favorably for most of its points, said Fornos. To thank your proposal and your willingness to negotiate with the Member of Parliament – there was a lot of common sense – also to thank the work of the same Member of Parliament Fornos, of the IR, of the assessors, and from here I also want to make a recognizance of all the work that these people do, often in an invisible way. We are pleased that most of our papers have been accepted, and we have still not dealt with the Citizens' Group. We will vote unfavorably on points 2.c, 3.b, 3.c and 5.c, but not because we do not agree, but because, for example, the majority are already actions that are taking place, like that of the Lands of the Ebre, which already has the mobility table created by the government agreement of 2017, of June 6, where most local and regional entities are represented. Probably reviewable and better? Like all of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.49.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] In the name of Ciutadans, has the word the deputy Francisco Javier Domínguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.50.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and the people of Tarragona who accompany us today... We are improving, we move from a sheet of seventy points to one of forty. We're moving on. However, I would like to thank the honourable Member for his attitude to negotiate and accept many of our amendments and to negotiate, and also for the good treatment. For my profession I have always been on the lookout for agriculture, the natural environment and the rural world, and I am very used to the fact that policies related to the primary sector have no media interest, no priority for any government, no budget as they deserve. Therefore, I smell a lot of improvised solutions, these motions that are appearing lately before a misfortune such as the fire of the Ribera d'Ebre. And now it has been seen..., now that it has been seen one of the consequences of leaving our territory because of the lack of interest of the primary sector and forest management. But we have to take advantage of the situation and let us talk about the rural world and let us talk about this motion. The main problem in the rural world is the depopulation and abandonment of primary activity. But we have to ask ourselves why people do not stay in the villages, why there is no generational renewal. For the main cause, the two main causes summarized would be, on the one hand, not making a good living and, on the other hand, that there are fewer services and fewer opportunities. It is clear that the rural world has problems that go beyond agriculture. And we talk about transversality: agriculture, tourism, economy, services... In this motion there are ten points, initially, that aim to give an integral or transversal view. But they had neglected to talk about health, education, women, dependence. It is fortunate that from Citizens we are pending and thank you for adding our amendments to this motion. At the point of rural depopulation there is talk of improving incomes, of highlighting the image of rural areas, of telephone coverage, of data, of municipal financing, etc.. And the rest of the points that appear in this motion should also count as measures to combat the rural diaspora: agricultural prices, proximity products, extensive livestock farming, develop the planning provided for in the Law d'espais agraris, update a general policy plan..., and here I want to make a special emphasis. It is very important, we have to get the forest area managed to increase. This government has to encourage forest management plans and that there are fewer and fewer unmanaged forests, because we cannot afford another fire like that of the Ribera. It also appears to value rural architecture, the heritage of dry stone, as a tourist and cultural resource. And of course there are our contributions, which I am going to talk about right now, with which we have gained a little bit from that transversality that we talked about before: ensuring health care on an equal footing with an urban context; avoiding that schooling is a difficulty in fixing the younger families; encouraging actions to improve the situation of women in rural areas, or promoting autonomy and care for dependence. And here, if you're dependent or you have a relative in charge, then you have a problem. But if you're also in a rural area, you don't have a problem, you have a problem, so much so that you decide to go to a larger population or a city. With all these paragraphs, you can already say from the proposing group that you have made a very rural motion, but now you lack the quota. We add a project for the integral intervention of the Terres de l'Ebre and the decree law to restore damage to the farms affected by the fire, and now yes, there is already a complete motion and we already have a perfect title. But I am going to read a very recent statement from a majority civil servants union that calls for more involvement of the department and more resources for forest management. And I read literally: "When the land still smokes, there will be talk of investments and restoration and recovery projects, but the reality is that the budget for forest management is about a negligible 0.03 of the total budget of the Generalitat. I mean, we need more background work and less improv, because the fires go out in winter. And to finish. Whether for the climate emergency, for the diversity, for the conservation of the territory, to avoid the big fires, in the end we always end up talking about rural depopulation and abandonment of primary activity. And I take advantage of the fact that I am here to ask this Government and this Councillor to give priority to the rural world, to promote forest management and to work to make life easier for people living in rural areas. Make among all members of the government that it is attractive to live in our rural environment, which for that Citizens will always be at your side. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position now, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.52.0	Well, then, let's get on with the subject of how we started the PSC motion. The territorial model we have, where the majority of the population is concentrated in cities, has some direct implications for the rural world. We have seen, we share many of the analyses: outsourcing, an industrial herm, a primary mercantile sector, an agricultural and forestry sector that should be strategic... The rural world, this rural world that we are talking about, is also converted into the afterlife, into this space of the oci, leure, tourism, spiritual reserve, this respite. It also has as a consequence a certain culture, a human decapitalization, a loss of uses, customs, varieties, depopulation, and a dependence on the urban world. Certainly, from the left we have a double political objective that is no less in this sense: to build a valid project for non-metropolitan popular classes and to set up as small and medium-sized municipalities become an engine of social justice, territorial revolution and equity in all senses. And we can't reduce rural areas to primary producers of stem or food, or just turn them into our resorts of rest or complaint..., or pleasure for tourists. Let us not forget that tourism, moreover, generates precariousness and important territorial and environmental impacts. Sectoral solutions will only carry partial solutions. And in this sense, while we are very much in agreement with the motion, I think that it would not hold a motion on rural Catalonia, it would set up a motion as an alternative agricultural policy. And in this sense we are very much in agreement, because they have put forward an alternative policy to the policy that is currently in place, and we agree with the approach they pose on the table. It is necessary to reverse this situation, to confirm that there are small numbers of activities on which there are all types of economic activity. Before we talked about the hydroelectrics, which we also had the opportunity to speak to the president yesterday. If some of the hydropowers that are currently operated by Endesa or other private companies revert their inputs through private management over the territory, we would, for example, have Arties' central office, Arties' two central offices enter an annual billing of €8.5 million. We also need to talk about this when we talk about the rural world and, therefore, in this sense, we are talking exclusively about agricultural issues. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I'm done, President. Before, with the companies, with two of the hundred and thirty-eight inhabitants of Guixers, the Solsonès, we spoke that the rural world, the small people do not have to be a postal place, but a place to live...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.53.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.54.0	...I insist: only with agricultural solutions will we not find the way back.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the parable of the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.56.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, very telegraphically, because it's the same debate that was produced in the previous motion, to also convey support to most points, but to make a small toilet to the proposing group, which is already a toilet a little redundant over the type of motion that is raised. A young man, in short, what he does is urge the government. We already have a percentage of compliments, to be generous, small enough; if it's after a letter from King Mags, at the time of truth, the young man loses power, because it's almost impossible that this can be accomplished. And, therefore, we would ask that they were a small, small, and that, at the time of the concretion, which is very good, they were for fears that in what we are carrying from the legislature, obviously, the practice of the Government has been very limited, but that in what I am left, therefore, they are able to push in a realistic way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Marc Parés, again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.58.0	Well, thank you. First of all, what I would like to do is please the good predisposition of the groups that have submitted papers, right? , of the Fornos MP, of the Gallardo MP, of the Domínguez MP, also of the Ordeig MP and also of the technicians of the department and of the department also for the good predisposition to reach agreements. Let's start this brief reply with some idea pointed out by Mrs Gallardo, whom I have also urged, which is the idea of the recognition of territorial diversity, of the specificities of each territory. And from another idea, which Mrs Fornos also pointed out, which we raised in the motion, which is the idea that it is the same territory that decided its development model. And, therefore, this autonomy of the territories, this ownership for its rural development. An idea that we understand is to be compatible with the idea of strength that we want to put on this young man, which is that of territorial equity, is to say, that you see where viscous of the territory have access to the same level of income and services. And in this sense let me tell you that, although many points of the motion did have a focus on elements of agriculture, ramaderia, forest management, point 1, which was the main point on which we want to focus our proposal, was a territorial equity plan that was basically oriented or was intended to guide rural development policies that are to be allowed is that all territories can develop. And what he does to forest management, Mr Ordeig, is not that we have a discrepancy, surely, in the need for forest management, but in the instrument, which we understand is an instrument that we need to review and which currently does not serve us. And lastly, to the government, let's just say that we're also a little disoriented with this idea of the country alive, country of opportunity, that we don't understand who the paper is or don't know who the paper of the Department of Agriculture is on this project. And that, in any case, we want to put on the table is the need to provide resources, funding, these types of initiatives, because there is not enough to talk to the territory but to act there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. Yes, Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.60.0	Thank you, President. To ask for a separate vote on 2.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.61.0	2.c, okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.62.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.63.0	Yes, Mrs. Bravo, I've been given your petitions. I have them, and I'll list them to see if they match. Yes, Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.64.0	To ask for separate vote from point 4, the subpoints to and b, simply, and you can vote together. [[Pause.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.65.0	Yeah. Mrs. Gallardo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.66.0	For a separate vote of 2.c, 3.b, 3.c and 5.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.67.0	3.b, from "Barcelona," he told me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.68.0	Three...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.69.0	... 3.c and 5.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.70.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.71.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.72.0	I 2.c, well, that was already...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.73.0	Yeah. And 3.c and 5.c can they vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.74.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.75.0	Yeah? All right. So, I'm making a compilation of what I've been asked to do, see if it matches. [[Bernat Sole and Barril ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Solé, say'm, so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.76.0	[[For technical reasons, the speaker's intervention was not recorded.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.321.0	We would then vote separately on point 2.c, on the other side on the 4th and on the other side on the 4th, and then a block was proposed with points 3.b and 4.e, and another one with points 3.c, 5.c, and a third block, obviously, with everything left to vote. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Do you reconcile your interests? Yeah? Say, say, Sole.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.77.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ... the 3.b exactly what is the vote on?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.78.0	With the fourth? Don't you? So we'll vote separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.79.0	3.b should vote with 3.c and 5.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.80.0	We'll do..., before we get into a spiral a little more dangerous, we'll vote separately for the whole motion and end up before. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, because we do not reconcile all interests, so we will vote separately. We've already talked to the Spokesman's Board, we'll talk again about solving these kinds of situations. We vote, therefore, in the first place point 1 of the motion. The vote begins. Point 1, entering the whole point, was approved unanimously: 131 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. It's also called point 2.c, right? So, we vote on point 2.c. The vote begins. The 2.c_point was rejected by 53 votes to 61, with 16 abstentions. We're voting point 3.b now, right? 3.b. The vote begins. Point 3.b was rejected by 28 votes to 63, with 40 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.c. The vote begins. Point 3.c was rejected, by 28 votes to 99, with 4 abstentions. We're voting point 4.a now. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You have to go. We're voting. Point 4.a_has been approved, by 87 votes in favour, against and 44 abstentions. We're voting, now, point 4.b. The vote begins. Point 4.b_has been approved by 127 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. We're voting point 4.e, right? 4.e. The vote begins. Point 4.e was approved, by 91 votes to 40, with 40 abstentions. We're voting now point 5.c, what's the last thing I've got separate? Yeah? So, the 5.c. The vote begins. Point 5.c was rejected, by 28 votes to 98, with 5 abstentions. And we're voting, now, the rest of the vote. Yeah? The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved, that is, 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the prevention and extinction of fires]] [[302-0130/12]] Let's move on, now, to the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into the prevention and extinction of fires. Presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word the deputy Mr Carles Castillo, to defend it. When he wants to. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.81.0	Good morning, everybody. Especially, a greeting to the Tarragona TT, who came today to accompany us. Thank you very much for the welcome. Well, it's a fire department, security, general emergencies. She's a young man who's been trying to solve the situation where the bombers are often found. The precarious situation. They have to work, sometimes, with massive voluntarism or effort, on condition that they think they are not the right ones. And they're in a pretty fucked-up situation. For another band, it's true that we don't think we should write a letter to King Mags. And so, we have tried to make concrete proposals, some very concrete, of issues that we believe can be improved. We have tried to be very possible and very realistic, doing an exercise almost to put ourselves in the place of the government, in some moments. There are also some repetitions of things that we have to repeat and that make us a little bit of shame, that we should put a little red or red at all folds. Because it's things that, or have been approved here, or are commitments that have been adopted for the government, and that have not just been pushed forward, right? Things..., I talk about questions how to complete, in reasonable time what the job inspection says, or complete the internal safety instructions of the bombers. Or, finally, some questions that had already been approved, such as declaring essential services the EMS. And let's go over it again. Some questions that we wanted to pose, very concrete: the skill, right? Problems with the equipment. Bombers, equipment's a safety issue, right? And we wanted to ensure that the operating group was equipped with sufficient media support to be able to distribute, distribute the equipment, that there is always an adequate stock of isotonic beakers and energy bars. We wanted to put, too, a periodicity, recover the periodicity of the practices of bombers and simulations, trying to do, therefore, at least two great simulations throughout Catalonia. We believe that the ideal would be to infuse one to each province and, therefore, to infuse four. But, with this negotiation exercise with the government, we've agreed, so we've decided to put it in two. Prevention and planning. We also proposed planning and prevention issues. As, for example, to take advantage of the studies, the analyses that are fan of the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia and Pesca, to determine those territories that are more dangerous, that have more risk and more risk. Or, for example, take advantage of people who are in the second activity, to make this planning and prevention. Power up partial replenishments, too. An important safety issue for the bombers. Try that it's not tanky, for example, no park when it's done, when it's produced a fire. We believe... this, sometimes, in some situations, is complicated by the lack of staff we have, but in any case, try it from the government. Or, in questions of firefighters' material, demand a minimum standard of quality when buying material, theft or general material; that you are doing an annual review, also, of the stoop in the department. And, even so, you're doing a check on this stock. As for the SEM, we have also proposed that it be an essential service, that it adopt the appropriate media, that it is created a mixed commission with the presence of workers, that it is a proposal of Catalonia Yes it is Pot, that we have adopted. Naturally, better working conditions, or other proposals dedicated to local police because they are trained in the first intervention of a fire, because, many times, they are the first or the first to arrive. And a pedagogical measure, which I think is the most important star measure. And we propose – and in principle it has been accepted – that you do a study after every big forest fire, that you do a cost study, which it has cost to turn off the fire or control the fire. In general, I say, we have tried to make realistic, concrete, possible proposals. And we did it with the participation of practically all the groups. They have presented In Comú Pode, Juntes per Catalunya, Esquerra e Ciutadans. And we want to thank, too, for your positive and purposeful attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.82.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Pomão and in order to defend the papers presented, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.83.0	Well, thank you, President. So let's go to the third place you have to see – or arise – of the evil fires in the Ribera de l'Ebre. In this case, focused on the Cos de Bombers, on the emergencies, on the extinction. Clearly, we are ahead of the umpteenth parliamentary initiative that calls for more in the emergency services. Millions in the firehouse and concrete measures that allow us to face one of the main risks facing our country, which are the fires. A risk close to a Mediterranean country, but a growing risk for the climate emergence and for the historical absence of a territorial management aimed at preventing this risk. And for us, here's where the solution should be, in preventing it through territorial management. Obviously, this is not going to happen, so it must urgently reverse the reversal of the Bomber Cos during the last nine years. And concrete measures are needed to put an end to the extreme precariousness of working conditions and material resources and infrastructure in this area, widely shared and diagnosed for all groups of this chamber. And that's what's going on, this young man. And for that, we will give support to most of the points that are raised in this motion. I would, in this sense, also like to thank Congressman Castillo for the good work done. So is your chattering taranna. Let's tell them, too, what fruit of this chattering taranna, which may have been excessive [[the timer riu]] So, we understand that you've reached some agreements with the government that make us re-think the feeling of the vote in some of the points, don't we? – in which we want to vote initially in favour and, finally, therefore, we will abstain. It's point eight and point 17. Point 8 because you have agreed to introduce the idea that what determines the Labour Inspectorate is to be completed – now I don't remember exactly how the motion says it – but..., with prudential time or with time..., right? We understand that there should be no excuses. I mean, the Labour Inspectorate reports are going to be completed, right? That point may be smaller. It seems a little harder or harder to accept point 17, which we haven't just heard. Because we understand that it's a step back, in relation to what we've approved recently. In fact, in the motion we tabled, our parliamentary group does a thing of a month or a month and a half, about the emergencies services, in which we spoke and assumed the compromise of this chamber, and also a compromise assumed for the government that there would be no more parks. And, therefore, the fact that you, in dealing with the government, have accepted this "trying not to tank the parks. Home, « trying, no. I mean, the compromise is that they don't have to be locked up, and so it seems to us that it's a step back and we'll abstain at this point. For what it does to the three items that our group had submitted, we appreciate the acceptance of the items relating to the Medical Emergencies System. We're sorry we didn't reach an agreement on point 2, where we'll also abstain. More than anything because we believe that the formation of firefighters and firefighters must be public, through the School of Bombers and Civil Protection of the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia. And we haven't just seen a model that can lead us, too, to a private privatization and to a private share of the costs, which we don't share. We'll also abstain from point 20, not because we don't want the basic training course content for police to be improved, just because we understand that the first fire intervention has to correspond exclusively to the Bomber Coss. And we have not just seen this idea of forming, in a first intervention in fires, the body of police or local police; we understand that this corresponds exclusively to the bombers. Well, for the rest of the points, we'll vote in favour. At point 1 we would have liked to continue talking about the AOFs, because we understand that it is a collection that works in precariousness and for which to claim to be group D, because it would be down to group E. And, above all, for what it does to its continuity during the summer. Because it's no use expanding the fire campaign for the climate change from June to September; but if we contract the AOFs by hourly volume, of course, when this hourly volume has run out – and everything points out that in this case, concretely, with the fires we're having, it's possible that the volume of the contract hour will run out before the campaign ends – so we can be left without this recourse. Another essential theme that cries out to the cell is the whole issue of acquiescence, to which we will also give support; the issue of isotonic beguds. Also the quality of the material and the stuff. And we are also very much in agreement with the post-fire cost assessment study. All the more, just say that, what we would need is that it's complicated and that's why...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.84.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.85.0	...in search of resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.86.0	Thank you. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of the deputy Núria Picas. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.87.0	Well, good morning, President. Councillor, Members, Members, first of all, to thank the Socialist Group for the good predisposition at the time of..., with the consensus that there has been in the total practicality of all points, as you have said, realistic proposals and constructive proposals. But before entering, then, in detail of this young man, I would like to keep a special and felt record of the company that makes years, in Horta de Sant Joan, they lost their lives: the David, the Jordi, the Pau, the Jaume, the Ramon, who left us a very deep commitment to all. [[Greetings.]] Thank you. And to Pepe, then, who miraculously came out alive and today can explain to us those lessons, those lessons after Horta de Sant Joan, that they are a world referent and will serve us all for the future, right? And here's where there's a before and a after, it's from that catastrophe, which is when there's a silence, a silence that leads us to a deeper analysis and takes some reflections on other areas, both political, as well as social, as global, and there's these lessons, as I said before, the lessons after Horta de Sant Joan, some lessons that make it clear to us that this is the responsibility of all of us. Well, focusing on today's motion, we are talking, therefore, about prioritizing the preventive management of fire and the reduction of risk with the participation of the Rural Agents Cos and the Generality Bombers, there has been a consensus to move forward in the complementary model among professional firefighters..., especially in the better of aviation, which, as Congressman Castillo has said, is also a security issue, it is the energy that the firefighters need, therefore, to function. Also establish a few minimum standards of quality in the clothes, in the various materials. Ensure the repositioning of the material, which are at the head and at the end the tools the bomber needs to face his day-to-day difficulties. Focus mainly on safety measures. And a very cool subject, which is old for the safety of our companies, isn't it? On the subject of replenishment, which they spoke of, in those services which may be perlling in time, try, therefore, that these replenishments may be partial. Also the topic, therefore, of the bombers who are in the second activity..., taking advantage of their operational management and logistical support, what is so important is their pocket, isn't it? She's a very long young woman, she's a young woman who's got twenty-two points... But well, I said that, so I'd like to go back to the initial speech and put special emphasis on getting back a little that we've been losing for many years, which is a certain fire culture in our country. Our opinions and our previous generations had it well integrated, and therefore, this change of life that we have had, with this abandonment of the rural world, which has made us all a little more urbanized, has made us neglect who our problems are. That fate of a year ago can be repeated, because the around it is as it is, and everyone can take it wrong. So, we have to row everyone in the same direction. The Generality Firehouse is a global reference, and it is – it is – and it is demonstrated. The Horta lessons, collected for the same GRAFs, have become an international manual to prevent similar situations and that have turned Catalan bombers into a world leader in security, strategy and knowledge. Those Horta lessons have traveled all over the world. We have a bombardment that we must be very proud of. Tonight the Generality's Bombers are working with each other and with each other to try to put up with the fire of the Chapels, trying to get the hours of the most heat to this fire that's already perimetered. For the time being he's on the right track, but we can't let him get old and fight. We must be aware that Catalonia is a land of fire, that it has cremated, that it will cremate, and that the risk must be reduced to zero. And this is one of the main challenges we have between our hands today. Without orderly and alive landscapes, fires cannot be extinguished. The Bombers are the answer, they didn't solve it. And that's why we encourage the Department of the Interior, the Councillor, and also Councillor Jordan, to follow in the good line of work that are the prevention policies that are being carried out also from the Department of Agriculture [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out]] – and I'm done with that, President. I repeat and insist...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.88.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.89.0	...that this is everyone's responsibility. The society must give life to the territories, and, if the territories are dying, the territories are cream. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.90.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the return of Deputy Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.91.0	President, thank you very much. Counselor, MPs, MPs..., Mr. Castillo, I don't know whether or not I'll help you in your political career. [[the timer riu]] But bringing a young man with you is a pleasure, because you have a full look, you have a look at the body..., more than other reasons that go ahead and have a chicken flight than up until the entrance of this Parliament, this, if all is well, can be implemented in the Bomber Cos. Well, this young man sees a parliamentary inquiry to the same Councillor of the Interior, in which he spoke of the Bombers 2025 platter, a platter of firefighters that in the first fire he applied was in the fire of Horta de Sant Joan, in which they unfortunately cremated five thousand hectares, but the potential of the fire... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, yeah, you got a cough... no, the Spanish Tower, huh? So we say..., and it had the potential to cremate fifteen thousand more hectares. This board talks about the de-seasonalization and the effects that this de-seasonalization on the fire risk can cause and all the aspects that need to be improved, that need to be changed as a result of this process. Many of his young man's quarters have gone this way, they're already picked up on the Bombers plaza. In a block you refer to all the bids to be made by the Generality as a result of the commitments made by the same advisor and which are included in the same plan. Clearly, even though the Generality's apparatus is working tirelessly – tirelessly – to acquire these benefits, the terms of the Administration and the guaranteed will of the same standard still do not arrive at this material or still does not arrive at all. In another big block you talk about the working conditions of the bombers. These working conditions of the bombers are recognized, many of them, in the agreement that they were able to bring to completion the government and the trade unions of the Mossos..., of Bombers. In this sense, we will support ensuring that there are no fenced parks in any case – the fact that 250 bombers will be incorporated from here until 2022, in which a thousand will have been incorporated, will favor it, without doubt. Take advantage of the second activity bombers, obviously, in operational management tasks or support tasks. Retrieving periodicity in practices – it is essential that our firefighters are prepared. It's essential to equip the bombers, it's fundamental that we complete what determine the work inspections... Bringing knowledge into all activities is important, but in the area of firefighters it's still more important. Bombers 2025 is very inciting, it affects, because it has changed society, changed technology, changed media, and we have to put out fires at these new technologies and media. Point 9 tells us about the clothes and the quality of the bombers' clothes. There's the department's Admins Committee, which we encourage to continue working. And we talk about rigour at the time of predicting fires and at the time of putting science at the time of putting them out; it is also important to know how much it costs, to value the actions of the bombers. As resources, above all personal, are not limited to administration, we have determined that we value only the great forest fires. But it's a first step and it's a step in which we should continue to follow, especially in the face of the citizenry. Coming from you, we can expect you to talk about local police; we will also give you support in the area of local police. In short, all the difficulties encountered by the Government at the time of its accession to the Board, as well as the structural difficulties that existed in the Bomber's House, as well as the union demands that at the time it was at the top of the Table, as well as the presuppositionary restriction – that the Member of Parliament Pallarès did not speak here today and was spoken of in general – that the Government of Catalonia suffers, above all because whoever collects the taxes to Catalonia recovers them but does not return them, the Government does work, the Government has started with the agents, the Government is able to reverse the situation with the means of material held by the Bombers, it is able to approve the word Bomber 2025, an example of quality leap in management. As an example, this young man, that all parliamentary groups in this Parliament are about to have a model fire prevention and extinguishment service, adapted to the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.92.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Jean Castel has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.93.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, first of all add us to what happened to Horta de Sant Joan a year ago, add us to the record of the Member and join that group of the GRAF that suffered that consequence, which also, as you said, must be learned; in time we must take all those measures so that we never find ourselves more in a situation like this. [[Greetings.]] Congressman, Congressman Castillo, as we have already spoken personally, first of all, as it cannot be in any other way, to thank the good understanding that we always have; and in this young man we have understood. A young man who has made a compiler of many motions for resolutions emanating from the Committee on the Interior, and many of the issues that also, when we talk about emergencies and emergencies, have been dealt with in this House, also from the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans, both in committee as in full, but welcome that we can return, have the opportunity to approve many things that have left us that have sometimes fallen into committee. But welcome, as I said, the proposals put forward. From the city we've tried, from everyone else, to try to guarantee, to shield, to narrow down controls... and at all those points that we've found to be a waste that had to be inflated to guarantee... When we also talk about the medium-level formatting cycle, thank you that you have brought this proposal, but we also have to say that the decree that allows and contemplates this formatting degree, we have to begin to empower it, to encourage it, to communicate it to many people who also have to hear that it will promote equal opportunities, and also to implement it at the level of territories. That said, look, from City we wanted to incorporate it, as the gods said, reviews, as we talk about timing in many of the different points, which guarantee us..., when we talk about practices, simulations and other points that the motion incorporates. Also when we talk about control with the proposal of the material, when we talk about how and in what way we treat the material, the lapses – we come from a fire in Tarragona not for days, we see that also energetic bars and everything that we give to the bombers, in large part, came to lapse – a comprehensive control of the storage of all these materials, and also, as it cannot be otherwise, of the different materials, materials that are guaranteed and secure by our effect, when we talk about Bombers. And the treatment we give as well when we talk about how and how we have to deal with the burning of fires. Many times we told the councilman that the fires – and he says so too – go out in the winter. That treatment we also have to do from the forest to the winter will also give us guarantees. But, look, how and how we also contract and what is the return, where we have wanted to include penalties for how and how we get to what we charge and pay from the public era. What? Guaranteeing penalties that can also bring us a return when that material is not above the best way or as we have asked and would want it. Control, as I used to say, when we talk about media, it's presupposition. They're talking a lot about a presupposition. May I remind you that the majority group of this House, on behalf of the Members, have not been able to speak about this assumption. In many cases they ask us to approve it, to have a good look at it, but they have not asked us to sit down, they have not presented it to us, and until the moment comes we understand that it is a suspended document, but that, for now, the viability does not have it. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] And finally, we appreciate the good work, we've already wanted to incorporate it as always. Appreciate the good work done by all those Emergence System personnel, a staff who, in many cases, find themselves in situations where they must take up their work and do not count on the media they would want. But I also note..., and we will ask for a separate vote – I have already announced – on points 8 and 17; a few points that we cannot agree with, and it will be a abstention from this parliamentary group. Miri, when we talk about the Labour Inspectorate, we have to complete, just like any company or activity; complete in the best and fastest way. I, when we talk about guaranteeing the opening of parks, we have to guarantee them, not try. Try it... [[The timer laughs.]] Responsibility; above all responsibility, common sense, work and work. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.94.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.95.0	Good morning. First of all, all the support, admiration and gratitude to all the Emergence teams, firefighters, GRAF units and rural agents who are leaving the skin at the first line of fire; yesterday they did so in the Chapels. The motion does not address structural questions, but it does point to some questions of urgency, especially for firefighters and firefighters, but we do not forget that, although these measures move forward, it can address the reality of the Bomber and Bomber Cos, which is that the thing is precarious – the installations, the vehicles, the tools, the material... – and you know it as well as I do. As an example, today, there are extinguishing cars in solitary parks where it is given coverage to important areas, which carry more than two_months for various damages that cannot be solved due to inefficiency, lack of resources..., or technical gloves, the ones that were given to guany principles, which have had to rest up to three times and not to use them very much, but because they were of poor quality. So that's the thing, and so we need to talk about these issues. The last major forest fires, which affected the Ribera d'Ebre, Segria and Garrigues, have exposed the deficiencies in fire prevention that we have as the country. That's what we need to talk about, too. The Government of Catalonia allocates 90_percent of the expenditure on fires of the last fifteen years to extinction, only one of each of the euros is destined for prevention. That we tend to reverse this reality, that we reverse the reality of investing in extinction too much and not enough in prevention. All fire-extinguishing experts make it clear that, in the case of large forest fires, for the most common means of fire-extinguishing we have, there is little to solve. So the territory helps in this task and it's a question we haven't talked about in the previous motions. In this sense, we will give support to the majority of points presented by the PSC, because we understand that they are of urgency, that they are necessary, but we do place ourselves collectively – we too – to have a deep debate about the precariousness of the Bomber and Bomber Cos, which is difficult, it is alarming and very urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.96.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.97.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. MPs, MPs, councillors... well, in the midst of a crisis of troops and media, the emergency solutions, then, are fine, aren't they? And this motion comes to be a bit that. It is true that an emergency solution, of course, must not self-congratulate us. Basically, because the existence of fires in recent times gives us the opportunity to understand; understand fires to reinvent fire, right? And this sentence is not mine, this sentence is from the Pau Costa Foundation, which, after the fires of Horta de Sant Joan, have made a tremendous effort, right? To, precisely, that which was said from this Faristol a few minutes ago, to understand how being of a fire culture, we have turned the situation of our fields into a situation where fire is only an enemy, when it can, precisely, also be an ally, right? Having said that, I believe that there are different measures that have been carried out from the Agriculture Council itself, in coordination with the Interior, which I believe are good, and that we must move forward from the government and from the opposition, for example, in the case of the Life Montserrat project, which is not only forest management but also improves the entire fire prevention system. Having said that and returning to the motion, it is a remedy motion, is it not? , i.e. in the face of a situation where the 250 troops that have to be incorporated with the call for new places have not yet been incorporated, so improving the tools, the instruments, the working conditions can, in short, be a relief, but not a solution per se, if we do not work the other ways that I have specified. Now, it's true that, for the most part... [[The joker laughs.]] I laugh because – as you know, Mr. Castillo – we understand, for the most part, that the PSC, through it, has had a great will of consensus, pact and agreement, but, of course, there is some point where we are not going to be able to give you support, among other things, because we believe that you have been contaminated with a kind of candid generosity with the Government to agree, even because resolutions of the Labour Inspectorate are not complied with within a certain time frame, almost immediately, which is how it should be and more a public administration. Therefore, all those points where you have been carried away by that candidity pactadora, so, we will not give you support, but, in the rest, of course you will.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.98.0	Congresswoman, thank you. To pronounce on the papers and to have intervened all the groups, has the word again the deputy Mr Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.99.0	Well, it's true... no, it's true that sometimes, in the process of exams, expectations are lowered, but also all of us here are aware that sometimes the decision is that something is approved or that nothing is approved. And I have preferred, concretely, in points 8 and 17, I will explain myself a little, the one I can, with the time I have. Point 8 refers to the Labour Inspectorate. Well, "in a reasonable time it's true that it's a subjective concept. I understand that in a reasonable time it is putting as much effort as possible. So, whoever does everything I can, I don't think you can ask for it anymore. Point 17, this one, I don't think he's understood. This one's talking about keeping the land cover out of the park, but there's an emergence or a forest cover. Clearly, I've been ruling in a gathering and I know what it is that you don't want to close a certain thing, but if you need the effects, then you'll have to carry them and close the park. We are talking about an emergency situation and, therefore, the demand that is reconsidered at point 17. Point 8 I can hear, point 17 I just didn't hear. Thank you all for your contributions. The Republican Left and Junta for Catalonia have brought a point that seemed very interesting to me, which is to include Rural Agents in safety Junta. Catalonia in Comú We can put a point in the SEM, which is to create a mixed commission. And Citizens, in general, I have to say that it has improved the writing of the text in many points. So, thank you very much. It is also true that the companies Hope and Nation, of the CUP and the Popular Party, is not a movement that comes into central issues, in structural issues, but that are concrete points of urgency, of urgency, in order to try to deal with this situation of precariousness that currently have the bombers and that I am sure that we all want to appease as much as possible. Many thanks to everyone for the effort and for the candidacy of some. [[Rialles.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.100.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. It has been asked, since the Faristol, to vote separately from points 8 and 17. I don't know if there's any more petitions? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.101.0	The vote is separate from points 2, 4 and 20, which can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.102.0	All right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mrs. Garcia. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.103.0	So, I don't know if he's still been asked to vote separate from number two...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.104.0	I don't feel well. Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.105.0	I don't know if you've been asked to vote separately from point 2...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.106.0	Yeah. Now, the CUP has requested a block with 2, 4 and 20.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.107.0	Okay. Perfect. So, point number 18, for letters, we would ask for the separate vote from the letter d, from Denmark, and the letter g, from Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.108.0	Can these two vote together? 18.d and 18.g?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.109.0	Separated. These separated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.110.0	Yes, yes, separated from the others. But 18.g and 18.d together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.111.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.112.0	Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.113.0	Yeah. Please, the 2, the 4 and the 20 should be separate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.114.0	Two, four and 20? All right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, ma'am Picas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.115.0	The 18th separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.116.0	Yeah. What's going on that I've been asked for by subpoints, huh? I mean, we'll vote 18... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All the subpoints ask?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.117.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.118.0	All right. [[Pause.]] All right, so, let's just... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me. Mrs. Roldán, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.119.0	Yeah. To assure us, because I don't know if 17 and 8 have been asked separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.120.0	Yeah, yeah, yeah. The deputy said so, and I've already pointed it out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.121.0	Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.122.0	All right. Let's start by voting point 2 of the motion. [[Pause.]] Yeah? We're voting point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been rejected by 52 votes to 63, with 16 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4 has been approved by 127 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on points 8 and 17–8 and 17. The vote begins. Points 8 and 17 were approved by 83 votes in favour, against and 47 abstentions. Let's now vote on the subpoints of point number 18. Let's start by voting for the 18-point encapsulation. The vote begins. The heading of item 18 was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. We're voting 18th now. The vote begins. The 18th item was approved by 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions, that is, unanimous. Let's just go ahead and vote 18.b. The vote begins. This point was also approved unanimously: 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. I, now, 18.C. The vote begins. 18.c. was approved by 127 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now at 18.d. The vote begins. Point 18.d was approved by 127 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting 18th point now. The vote begins. The 18th was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. We're voting 18f point now. The vote begins. Point 18.f was approved by 68 votes to 63. And we're voting now at 18.g. The vote begins. Point 18.g was approved by 64 votes to 62, with 5 abstentions. And we're voting now the 20th, the 20th. The vote begins. The twenty-first point was approved by 119 votes in favour, against and 12 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved, that is, 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into facilities and access to ports]] [[302-00131/12]] We now turn to the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the facilities and access to the ports, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. Before starting the debate, however, I would like to point out that, in agreement with the later Board of Spokesmen, the debate on this motion will be taken together with item 18, concerning the motion following the question to the Government on the prohibition of rescue operations in the Mediterranean, with a time of seven minutes for each parliamentary group and three minutes for each of the two parliamentary sub-groups. In the first place, to present the motion, has the word Mrs Elsa Artadi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.123.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone who is not negotiating PRs; good morning, counselor, who, together with Counsellor Bosch, is at the forefront of this Commission of Ports Segurs. Also thank the work of Congressman Wagensberg that we have been able to do together for the long run this joint motion between Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana. And today, really, the Mediterranean has consolidated as the world's deadliest border. In which we carry a year there have died as at least 638 people, at sea, trying to reach European costs; thousands will end up dying before a year, if we do not; thousands die every year. There are some figures that are very much above other areas with a much larger migratory flow, such as Mexico's border with the United States, and there are some deaths that continue, despite the NGOs' insistently calling for humanitarian corridors to avoid these tragedies. In the last few months, in fact in the last two years, we've seen two phenomena. For a band, the biggest increase in deaths that is occurring on the West Route, therefore, the one that passes through Spain, and is that the number of deaths has quadrupled from 2017 to 2018. That is why we also want to take advantage of this motion to denounce the direct responsibility of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, as a result of the policies that are exerting, with the closing of ports, the blocking of ships, the outsourcing of border policy to countries that do not comply with the minimum standards of respect for human rights, dictatorships, and actions of security forces at the southern border. At the same time, we are also seeing Libya becoming the first boat emitter for which it is the central route of the Mediterranean, in which migrant people from Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Somalia, Sudan, Nigeria, Mali, including Morocco, serve this route, where there are deaths that have spread dramatically also from 2017 to 2018. If 2017 is a _each_thirty-eight rescued people die, 2018 this has increased to a_each_fourteen people. This humanitarian drama that passes to the eagles does not just remain in the sea. And to this we also want to refer to this young man: tragedy does not end in the sea, but it continues on the ground. And it continues to land above all from 2017, when the European Union decides to sign an agreement with the Libyan government to finance its coastal guard, to change hundreds of thousands of millions. This really is true of the great "syringuites of the European Union", which no one seems to care about. The European Union, which signs agreements with Libya, despite the violations of human rights, despite the civil war that is taking place in its country, and this coastal guard, which carries out the task with great success... And it is that 85_percent of the people who are intercepted to the central route returns to Libya, returns to Libya despite the fact that the United Nations has been warning and criticizing these policies for some time. So once they arrive, through this guard they will cost Libya financed with the money of all Europeans, so also the money of all of us..., they will arrive in Libyan territories and end up in one of the twenty-three official detention camps, which are located, the majority, around Tripoli, which is a zone of war; more than other illegal camps, of which we have no figures, and some of which we do not know or where they are. There, thousands of people today are detained, thanks to the financing of the European Union, are arbitrarily and indefinitely retained. Thanks to the great task being done by some NGOs, some investigative journalists, including some diplomats, today we know what happens also in these detention camps, that they should be closed down, that they should be illegal and that, in any case, they should not be able to be financed with European money. And what we know is that there are corrupt guards there who conspire with mafias for the trafficking of people, who abuse people, who abuse them, who demand rescue, who subdue people..., and from all this we have pictures, they can easily find for the internet. We know that militias attack these camps either to steal or to recruit people to fight in the war. We know that these camps have been bombarded and people's drawings have died, with actions that could constitute war crimes. We know that, moreover, it is inevitable, since they are located directly on the line of fire. We know that hundreds of people are arriving and that sometimes at the end of fifteen days these people have disappeared without anyone knowing where they are. In short, maltreatment, abuse, malaise, epidemics, attacks, rapes, slavery; all this is financed with our money, in camps where there are underage, there are refugees, there are people looking for asylum, people looking for a better life, seas with nadams. NGOs are restricted in access to the camps, restricted in access to persons who are retained there, for the same Libyan authorities who sign agreements with European countries. The camps are not on condition to attend to anyone. If we don't get through what's going on, if we keep giving it to it, thousands of people will still die in the sea, thousands of people will still die in these camps. Spain and its European partners are responsible; they cannot pursue migration policies solely by thinking about the number of people arriving in Europe and ignoring the human cost they have. The European Commissioner for Migration makes it clear: "It is a shame all over the world. He makes it very clear, but no one does. From Parliament we also want to say: it is a humane catastrophe, it is crimes against humanity, and we want to denounce who is not responsible for these deaths, we want to denounce who is responsible for this suffering. The performance of the government of Pedro Sánchez, which is not the only one, nor much less, but the performance of the government of Pedro Sánchez before this human catastrophe is reprehensible. I suppose those who are trading with him these days, all those who are trading, you'll make him see. Minister Ábalos, Minister Borrell, are directly responsible and should resign. What's the Spanish government doing? Avoid maritime rescue patrols, block and threaten NGOs that carry out rescue tasks. Why did you threaten them? Because he knows he can't force them to bring them back to Libyan costs. Because he knows they're coherent, that you can't rescue someone into the sea and take him to death in the detention camp. The government of Pedro Sánchez, who also wants to force the fishermen who when they rescue someone the return to bring Libya. The government of Pedro Sánchez, who has an ambassador who praises the good state of relations between Spain and Libya – I suppose you must mention that Libya is the first supplier of oil from Spain – but a same ambassador who, although he seems to be all over Libya, lives in Tunis, because he is unable to live in Libyan territories, given the circumstances there. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.124.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the prohibition of rescue operations in the Mediterranean]] [[302-00133/12]] Next, and on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.125.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, asked us Hannah Arendt, talking about the banality of evil, that we thought of normal people, of normal people capable of committing horrendous acts, and that, already posed, we thought of a little more there: that we thought of people who are not considered individually guilty of an evil collection, even though they have participated or formed part of it in some way. People who think that their actions are just a small grit, that they obey and execute the plans drawn for others, for others. He asked us, Hannah Arendt, to think of those who are seeing themselves in an engulfment of decision-making power and, therefore, without responsibility in a much larger chain, in which there are always others above. And there is that obedience... without reflecting on the consequences of the mandates, in that way of trivializing the actions of their own, which, in addition, bring them to the end. Dividing_thousand people, counting, that we could not find the bodies, dead, in five years, to the Mediterranean; hundreds of people refugees, dead also, en route to Europe, or ill-living in refugee camps; migrants dead in CIS, like last week in Valencia. All this, in a sustained way, in a continuous way and in the eyes of all. In the eyes of everyone, in the eyes of everyone, but without anyone stopping it – no one. Governments of arrest, disobeying the international law, do not just stop ironing out policies to reduce the dead, but as a fan of increasing mortality. The leaders of this human drama, as a result of a global production system and the governments that allow it and push it, are, or are, many, many. Our whole life is not responsible; it's a question almost, we could say, structural. But, of course, it is comparable with the responsibilities of the states, the governments, their laws, their production systems and their alliances. From here, if not? Or is it someone who thinks that wars are fan soles, that bombs are raining from the sky because they do, and that the plundering of natural resources or the displacement of businesses make them, I don't know, the Martians, that dictatorships sustain their airs? The states and governments are the only ones that can change and that can reverse this situation. And if they don't, it's not because they can't, it's because they don't want to, because there are infrastructural things that they want to keep, that they don't want to touch; that they need to follow weapons manufacturer to continue generating work places, they say, while who is actually benefiting from everything folded are a few. With our fishing companies we take the job of young people from Morocco and Senegal and force them to leave their homes; with our tech companies, we have been causing genocide in the Congo for years; with the stuff we make, we generate poverty and violence in Southeast Asia, and with the coffee that comes every morning we are possibly generating poverty and violence in South America. And all that superstructural we can do, like letting an NGO in Badalona go rescue..., it's pure surface, it's pure makeup; but now we don't even let it. And necropolitics, MPs and MPs, is this: that some lives are worth more than others, and, therefore, they need to say things for their name. It's that we're talking about dividing a thousand people dead in five years; sustaining, continuing, in the eyes of everyone. The international lawyers, who have asked the Hague to investigate the European Union member states for crimes against humanity, note this. And these figures, I repeat, which we see every day translated into images in our pants, signify a humane drama, which is only comparable – and it tastes hard if someone is wrong to listen to it – to a modern genocide. He said the other day the spokesman of Stop Mare Mortum, today in the hemisphere: what is happening to the Mediterranean is a new form of genocide. And in these terms, the majority of accredited organizations are expressed. The strength of these words, however, lies years from the radicality of the situation, the radicality of evil. And with all the power of its meaning these words are almost a moral obligation to be all aware of what is going on. Things have to be said by name, and we can't stop doing it to try and put ourselves in full responsibility. And I assure you: I need to see an instant after the look of a single person who has just survived or survived to hear it all folded. As someone may have the cynicism to say that a government that threatens with 900,000 euros to whom it rescues the sea is not responsible for these deaths at sea. I'd understand even a child. As someone can hold the bar to say that a government that wants to retail the 30_per_cent of the sea rescue workers and workers, knowing that it has the most dangerous border of the world, is not responsible. A government that spends thirty-two times more in security than in accumulating policies. A government that says that rescued refugees can return to Libya, that it is a safe port, while we see how migrants' detention centres are bombarded, that there is an open civil war, with complicity and even with the participation of the European Union, where migrants can see them coming as slaves, where women are coming to be raped. And all this is what we want to see in this young man in a very clear and explicit way. But in the same way as we want to see, there is also a very clear appeal to the Socialist Party. I think we have a challenge like Parliament, which we can do now, before such a difficult situation, to try to reverse it: our degree of smile as the responsible part that we are trying to turn it into a degree of smile as the part of the solution. I imagine that there will be many points that they will not want to vote in favour, but there is a point in which the Interdepartmental Commission of Ports Segurs is asked for an economic, legal and logistical study to execute a plan of action scheduled for the opening of a humanitarian corridor. To open this human corridor, two parts are needed: the Spanish State and the Generality. What we want to propose to you here today is: we are in charge of the Generality; in charge of you on the part of the State. And we do it – we do it –; we follow the pact today. I know that, surely, like everyone else, go, carry the written speech. He does ask you to devote a_second to this proposal, and we all commit ourselves to pulling forward, because sure, sure, sure, it's one of the best things we can do folded, all folded, this legislature. And it's what we have to do, because as we fail all folds in this, women, men and children are now passing their last seconds of offending life into the sea. As simple and as real as that. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.126.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented is the return, in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, of Mrs Esther Niubó's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.127.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Parliamentarians and Members of Parliament, today the Republic Group and the Junta Group for Catalonia present us with two identical motions directly geared to the complaint of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, the Government of the State, which are focused on rescue operations in the Mediterranean or on access to ports, but rather on the charge against which one of the main problems is now in Europe, such as the closure of ports by the Government of Salvini, the Italian Government, the NGOs, in fact the omission of their obligations, or the recognition of the inopportunity of their Government, of the fact that you are in control of this House, in conjunction with the integration of refugees, in particular in the management of MENA, of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of the mismanagement of But unfortunately there are still deaths in the Mediterranean, there is no motive for self-completion of any kind; every year 1,500 people die – and they are old data already – in the Mediterranean trying to reach Europe, and 30_percent of them are underage. And it is obvious that there is a lack of consensus at European level to promote a genuine policy of asylum, of common immigration, that so many times my group, from the Parliament of Catalonia, but also from the Congress of Deputies, from the European Parliament, we have defended precisely to confront phenomena that are global, that question us as civilization, that affect the conjunction of European countries and, therefore, not only the coastal countries where they arrive, but the conjunction, in the transit of these people to their destination. And we have often talked about the need to move forward in a European solution that encloses humanitarian, safe lives, especially safe and legal lives for people who need protection to enter the European Union. It is obvious that today it is very difficult to do so without putting life at risk and at the hands of people traffickers, and therefore it is necessary to guarantee the safety and dignity of people seeking asylum. And that is why we think that humanitarian corridors actually fall where help is provided and basic needs are guaranteed. And secondly, we have defended a determined policy of maritime rescue, and therefore, at the expense of Frontex's border control, which is a task that seems also necessary to us, but it seems essential to us that the European Union should agree on public maritime rescue instruments. And, thirdly, the European Union articulates a common system of effective distribution of refugee flows based on principles of solidarity and shared responsibility, because, as I say, the arrival of people transcends landing countries. And that is why we find it paradoxical and unjust that these vagrant motions against the Socialist Group, which we have defended this common policy from years ago to all where we have had the capacity to influence, and above all against who has led a European response in this direction. And I have no doubt that we will continue to do so despite the fact that the Spanish Government accuses it of necropolitical iron, genocidal policies or deadly policies. Some of the terms used in this proposal are very hard. The Spanish Government has neither locked any ports nor blocked rescue boats; what it has done is to guarantee the compliment of international safety regulations. And it counts, because not all Catalan ports, of the Generality, are sure, in the sense that they do not complete the protocols established and agreed to Schengen, as a containment area for whether they produce sanitary emergencies or to carry out sanitary inspections or affiliation checks. And, therefore, not all Catalan ports are ready. But in any case, the reprehensible attitude of the Italian Government does not make us criminalise other governments which, in effect, have shown their commitment, which are doing their dues and are also doing so at European level. And, therefore, they will perfectly understand that many of these offensive points are voting directly against them. On the other hand, we will vote in favour of contributing to the establishment of legal and secure lives or to the dispatch of humanitarian visas and resettlement programmes, because we believe and defend it. But now, we also demand a compromise from the Generality: less words, less statements, less hypocrisy – and I say so – and more resources and sharing information, and better coordination. I articulate a process of colliding as they have not done so far, working colza to rape with other administrations, as much as joints as the Spanish Government. Because it's been a disaster for now. We do have some success stories; for example, the coordination between Barcelona and Santa Coloma, which has ended up with refugees arriving in Barcelona. And, from the point of view of the instruments, last week precisely we approved the Pla Director of Cooperation to the development of 2019 to 2022, which included among some of its objectives the need to respond to challenges of human mobility, and especially to the right to refuge and to legal and secure lives. You refer to a point; you refer to mechanisms to provide logistical and legal support to entities that perform humanities tasks. We'll give you support. On the other hand, the rest of the points, which use a completely unfettered wording, offensive, which is using a difficult cause, such as the deaths in the Mediterranean, for partisan objectives, such as putting through Josep Borrell's nomination as a senior representative of the European Union for foreign affairs and security policy... And do you really think that if Borrell's candidacy for the Commission is rejected, asylum policies will improve? Is it that there would have been fewer deaths in the Mediterranean? It really seems deeply regrettable to us this point. And, said that, all the recognition to the humane task that many NGOs, Open Arms among others, make of absolute compromise in the defense of human rights, in very difficult contexts, and that they can become hostile, and also to their task of awareness and pedagogy. And I also highlight this task of pedagogy and awareness on the side of humanity because they contribute, among all, to fighting appeals to hatred and why they only benefit those who use this strategy to get a political cure. And among all of us, we understand that we must combat the instrumentalization of migrations as an excuse to make identity relegations, border locks and out-of-pocket speeches. Because the consequences of intolerance do harm us all, build society, lengthen people and uphold universal values such as freedom, human dignity and equality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.128.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word, to defend the papers presented, for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Pom, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.129.0	Thank you very much. Immigration always did. Immigration is a global, structural phenomenon, which is – and has already been mentioned – the consequence of inequalities, conflicts, climate change. Why are we talking so much about what happened a while ago and we seem to be experiencing a constant alarm crisis because thousands and thousands of refugees come to our home? It's not because thousands and thousands more are coming, it's because the speech of xenophobia, por and security is taking place. We are talking about "invasion, we need to talk about "invasion, because we want to talk about security, about armor, instead of putting in value what are all the positive things that bring people coming from other countries and, above all, instead of putting in value who are the reasons and the causes that bring these people to a desperate and distressing path that many times ends in death. We are not talking about how to weave an inclusive, solid society; how to talk about global justice; how all the things we do now because people who live in other countries see worse, the lack of responsibility that the countries develop towards the countries of the South, are also causing many of these emigrations; how the sale of weapons causes conflicts that lead to this emigration. And when people run away what do we do? Let's leave the people out, let's leave the people who are offering; that's what Europe is doing: let's leave the people who believe in the Mediterranean who are offering themselves. There is no cry, there is no hint, there is no migration crisis, as the director of Frontex – the director of Frontex – wanted to say; what is there is a difficult political irresponsibility, of all governments, of all states and also of the Spanish State. And no longer from the Spanish State of one party or another; from the Spanish State, from the Government of the State, as it is, that no one is responsible for the lives of these people, for the lives of people living in the sea. We took the picture of the Aylan a few years ago, and yet, four years later, we have done absolutely nothing to avoid these Aylans and many others. We are talking about investing in border security instead of creating safe lives and shelter, and, above all, a policy of attachment that allows these people to have a decent life. They're carrying 35,000 dead with the minimum. It's a humane crisis as we certainly haven't seen in the past few years. The Mediterranean is a great tomb where European states want to clean up and clean up their responsibilities. And, yes, also the Spanish State, also in part form, of this: many to rescue ships, bans on salving, flagrant incompliments in the collide. The same foreign law that this Spanish State has is outlawed and is xenophobic, and it does not make it easy for people who arrive to have a decent life. It is also true what has also been said, that the Government of the Generality has few skills in immigration, and, as we have seen on other occasions, the parties that support the Government are experts in saying everything that other governments do poorly and talk a lot about what they do poorly. We have also found a lack of references to what is being done in the gathering of people who arrive, at what resources are being allocated, to what coordination mechanisms there are, as is required of the spaces that are held, at the level of the European government, at the level of the Government of the Spanish State, to improve this welcome and these conditions of life worthy of people. I replied that this was a safe living motion and that, therefore, we only spoke of safe living. Not that we're going to talk about it again, about gathering and sheltering, too, which is the competence of the Generalitat de Catalunya. We will support the two motions; beyond the fact that you may have molested someone, what is clear is that they denounce a flagrant situation of human rights violations and an inaction on the part of the Spanish Government in this regard. We have added some points that we believe will help to improve and that more they want to see..., and we have managed to gather the intervention that Stop Mare Mortum made to the External Affairs Commission of last week, one of them is precisely, the one that was commented by Congressman Wagensberg, from the creation of this safe corridor, from this way of humanity with the necessary assumption, to entrust to the Harbours Commission that you do this study, that you see all the technical, economic and legal conditions to guarantee this corridor, which is quantifiable. And to the assumptions that are present face 2020 there is already a game that can respond to this need detected. We, like Catalonia in Comú Pode, will be vigilant – as we said – that in this game of assumptions this appears. We also wanted to add – and it was also a specific petition of Stop Mare Mortum – that at the beginning of the plenary is given account of the figures of dead people in the Mediterranean. We believe that it is a way for all of us to be responsible here and help the Catalan society to be responsible for which is the situation of a humane crisis that is living in the sea, which many people are now using to bathe and to spend the summer, without knowing that there are people who are still dying and who are still offending themselves. We also want to take advantage of all the colors and recognize the pockets of those people who save the sea, of the organizations that work there: the Open Arms, the Sea Sea, the Viking Ocean, the Sea Watch and many others. They do show that if it's flying it's pot and they don't have to stop them. Because what's very contradictory is to talk about safe ports and say that what you can say is that people arriving at a port are safe, when what I'm sure is not safe is to die offended at sea. Or so, I'm sure what's not certain is that when a person is dying in the sea, a helicopter will look up and a ship that is close to him can't lie down and rescue him because then there will be a port that will close the barrier. That, I'm sure it's not safe. And, therefore, we will see that our ports are secure, that there are lives, and that the problem is not the safety of these lives, but that we do not have the ability to respond and gather these people. We believe that these organizations should do their job, but yes, we would like to know who the PSC is and what the PSOE we have here, the Aquarius or Frontex? Who's the paper he's gonna play? You're talking about Mr. Borrell, we don't know if it would be better or worse, we don't know. The one we've seen so far doesn't give us any guarantee that it can be better. No, they don't. We have seen no sign of saying that it will be better and that it will help to change the policy of the European Union that Mr Borrell follows. If he is, let him say it, let him say what he would do. I haven't heard him say what he would do about it yet. Will Frontex's policy change? Will the budgetary policy of the European Union change with a view to external action? Will it facilitate safe lives? If that's what I'm saying and we'll all agree to give him support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.130.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word, to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr David Bertran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.131.0	MPs, MPs, go for the admiration and gratitude of our parliamentary group for all those who develop rescue tasks at sea as do the volunteers of the Open Arms and Sea Watch, the public servants of the Generality and local governments, the Armed Forces and Maritime Rescue, as well as the missions of the European Union that place all their efforts and even all their physical integrity in order to face a humanitarian catastrophe that takes hundreds of lives every year. [[Greetings.]] Look, the motion that brings us to the plenary today, the groups of the Republican Left and the Junts to Catalonia take as a starting point a fact of extreme gravity such as the deaths of those who want to migrate from one side of the Mediterranean to the other – to use it in a demagic way – and thus denigrate the image of Spain and the European Union in a fallacious and populist way. I know it's hard, but that's it. What he does to Spain again is for those who are presidents of a man who says that the only one who has made Spain in all its history is to export misery to the world. They want to make it clear that Maritime Rescue has saved fifty-thousand people from dying this past year in the East and the Sea of Alboran and that we are a country that reprehenses large numbers of people who see other world-rights from many years ago, they are aware that openness is an element that enriches us as society. In addition, this Euroscepticism of theirs that has developed in these past times is even more powerful in this young man and in his interventions show a dangerous tendency towards Europhobia until the point that they propose to bring forward a complaint before the International Criminal Court accusing the European Union of crimes against humanity. They didn't have enough to say that the Union is a decaying and state club and that we should get out of it, no. Now they raise the stake of the populism casino and accuse the political organization that managed to overcome the old nationalisms and world wars to equip us with the period of little longer than our history of being a criminal comparable to those responsible for the genocides of ancient Yugoslavia and Rwanda. Are you sure they'll never stop in this race towards the Esperpent? How long do we have to hold on to wanting to destroy what's common to us and guaranteeing unity in diversity? Listen to me, the issue that this young man is dealing with is an argument that we believe should be managed in the case of this European Union that you so much like to insult. The mandated task is to manage migration flows that exceed the control and accommodation capacity that a few member states can develop for themselves. The coast of Andalusia, Lampedusa or Lesbos are now the coast of all Europe. Our MEP, Soraya Rodríguez, has already made explicit to the plenary of the Parliament, in Strasbourg, last week, of the European Parliament, that we must overcome the paralysis imposed by governments such as Salvini or those of the Visegrad group to his of the Council of the European Union in order to develop a common immigration policy that includes a modification of the Dublin system. We need to process asylum applications more quickly to the regions of origin as we organize a fair and binding division of refugees according to democratic criteria. At the same time, we need to fully reactivate the European military operation Sofia which is now in suspense, and continue to provide Frontex with resources and skills so that, in line with these Member States, effective border surveillance can be completed and illegal trafficking of people who develop the mafias is avoided. That said, yes, it is true that the Generality can contribute, according to its competences and as Mrs Niubó has already commented, to the good reception and integration of the immigrant people so that they can develop a life worthy and full of opportunities. And they've got plenty of work going on in this camp. The previous legislature has already adopted a resolution, the 790/11, which, among other things, demanded that special places be given to universities and vocational training centres so that young refugees could continue their studies. Where are we respecting this? I suppose you are aware that Catalonia has a serious problem of segregation at school level and that as a region in the European Union we have one of the worst academic results among those who are immigrants or who are descendants of them. Who do we have in this camp? I suppose we also know that we have a complex situation he managed with those minor strangers not accompanied who come out of the child protection system when they are 18 years old and who can form and prepare in a timely manner so that they can contribute to the society's joint venture. And I also assume that they are well aware that there are collections of refugees with special needs as may be those who flee their countries for their LGTBI condition, and for whom we have already asked with a resolution, now it will be a year, that you are paying specific attention to avoid their double criminalization. Has the government developed any specific plan in this sense? Perhaps it would be too much to assume that their priority actions are found in these subjects, but I would like to think that they serve those who are their obligations as public administration and leave behind their animation in Spain and in Europe, to act, precisely, in which they are very real problems of Catalans. Catalans all, certainly, therefore, we think that they are Catalans all who reside in Catalonia, regardless of their origin or language of communication, unlike the one written by President Tora who wrote... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, honourable Member, of which President Torra wrote when she literally said that the Catalan nation was at risk of dissolving'scom un_sucret into a drop of electricity because of immigration, they can look for it, we can look for it. [[Greetings.]] Because, deputies of the secessionist bench, we also have a hard concern that there are people who want to flee their countries of origin for reasons of humanity, conflict, or simply want to try to find a better life in economic terms, so these people have to see the arbiters of the mafias who traffic with people and that mass of them leave their last to the Mediterranean. At the same time, however, we know that the European Union, through its decision-making mechanisms, including the European Parliament, an entity in continuous construction, an entity with its progress and, obviously, with its shortcomings, so we think that this is where we have to force ourselves loyally to the truth and to the reality of the world in which we live today in order to ensure that our society continues to feed on people who have come from arrest and that these people can walk away from disgrace and pursue their dreams through legal and secure lives. We believe that global challenges must have global responses. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.132.0	Thank you, Congressman. Continuing to fix his position has the word, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP – Constituent Creed, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.133.0	Thank you, President. Well, we often hear about the cry effect and the need to develop state policies contrary to that cry effect, that's what we hear about often on the part of parties and public institutions, which precisely defend death in the Mediterranean, defend control policies to the cry effect, and what they do is what we can say about the gain effect. This is the policy generated by the European Union, and within it the Spanish State, the gain effect in collaboration with regional mafias, for example in Libya. Libya, a territory that finds itself in a situation that is directly the result of the European Union's military intervention with the support of the Spanish State, a military intervention that destroys the territory, creates a new state in which the mafias freely camp, with which the European Union collaborates directly and directly as an instrument to regulate migratory flows. And what does this gain effect consist of? So it consists in preventing or hindering the rescue of the sea and actively causing the death of the migrating people. The European Union, the Spanish State, actively causes the death of people who are migrating as a result of loss, as well as effects by, and therefore by, the institutions of the State, the people who are dedicated to politics, the political parties who defend this action are directly, morally and politically responsible for these dead – yes, Mr. Espadaler, directly responsible for these dead, not on the lookout for them – directly responsible but that the effect of loss also works through blocking ports and safe lives, illegal returns in heat, which practice Spanish institutions, illegal returns in heat, after abuses, abuses and deaths in the CIS, in the centres of internment, difficult to legalize, and if all senses of exclusion, is such a rule of law. This situation places and challenges a direct responsibility of the European Union and the Spanish State, because this situation is a humane crisis, it is a political crisis, it is a global crisis that has to see directly with military intervention, with economic intervention and with the environmental crisis that generates policies of the European Union and the Spanish State at international level. This is a direct consequence of the environmental crisis, the humanitarian crisis, the military crisis, the economic crisis that the states are causing to the territories. Therefore, it is a... not generous, it is a moral and a political requirement to recognize this problem and its reparation and justice on a global scale and, therefore, we, before the gain effect, propose the solidarity effect and the responsibility effect. That is why we are betting on a coven country, on a country of refuge, and that is why we will vote in favour of these motions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.134.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Some applause.]] It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the return of Mr. Daniel Serrano, when he appears.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.135.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, councillor. The first thing I would like to say is that the monopoly of sensitivity for the dramatic situation that refugees are experiencing has no one in this chamber, no one, no group, no individual Member, because we are all concerned, we are concerned, we are even outraged by images that unfortunately we have had to see and, therefore, here no one can boast that he has greater sensitivity or that he is more or less concerned about the situation of refugees, because that worries us all and I think he should be out of the debate. In recent years it is true that thousands of people have come to Europe fleeing the drama of war conflicts, misery, religious intolerance, fanaticism, and that they see Europe as an opportunity, a hope for their lives. And it is true that, on the different routes to the European Union, the Mediterranean, for obvious geographical reasons, is one of the same. And in the face of this situation, and without prejudice to the necessary international response to end the war conflicts where they exist, it is true that the European Union has before it one of the greatest humanitarian challenges of recent times, and it is to face this tragedy of refugees, who, I insist, flee from the horror, who are victims of the mafia, who have a genuine journey of horror until they tread European soil, being witnesses to the death of many of their fellow travellers along the road, and who, when they tread European soil unfortunately again, are victims of European bureaucracy, of government paralysis and even, why not say so, of the intolerance of some governments of the European Union. But this humanitarian catastrophe of refugees, we understand that it cannot be dealt with either partyly or demagogically or populistly, which is precisely what contains the motions we are debating. Because I don't know if this demagogic and populist approach, and even though we share some of the points..., I don't know if it really provides solutions or contributes to prolonging the problems of the refugee drama. We therefore believe that it requires a coordinated response from the European Union, which requires a coordinated response from the various governments of the European Union, precisely in order to facilitate the functions of reception and integration of refugees by the different administrations, in this case the Spanish State: the Central Administration of the State, the Autonomous Communities and the local administrations. And of course, it also supports NGOs that put forward solidarity initiatives to help refugees. The right to asylum is indeed a right; a right that has its legal procedures and channels, which does not admit widespread responses, which have to be individual and follow the channels legally provided for this reception. But, without prejudice to this, we insist: we do not believe that the demagogic and populist responses as contained in these two motions are the answer to this drama. A tragedy which concerns us all, which outrages us all, but which, I insist, only with a coordinated response from the European Union and the various governments of the European Union will we get out of this humanitarian situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.136.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce now on the exams, has the parula the deputy Elsa Artadi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.137.0	Yes; thank the contributions and the best of the commons, which we have accepted and traded another item. Congratulate Ciutadans, which includes in this topic you can talk about the monotheme. And tell the Socialist Party: surely there's no more check than anyone who doesn't want to see it. Obviously we are still following – still – in the Spanish State and, therefore, calling on the Spanish Government. Obviously you still... – let's see what happens today, whether you decide to go to elections or not – still handle it and therefore make a direct call to them. See what Salvini says about you, who enthusiastically applauds the decisions of Mr. Pedro Sánchez. And it's that when you were in opposition... at the last legislature when you were in opposition, you were criticizing, the same way we're doing now, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, and making the same contributions and defending the same thing that we're defending in this young man. But they've been able to make a covert turn, which has come with the coming to power. We know very hard that, moreover, I am talking about that we are not safe ports in Catalonia, making use of the same terminology, when you yourself are saying that the ports of Libya are. And neither Mrs Niubó nor her group's spokesman can be scandalized when we use words like genocide, "humanitarian crisis, "necropolitics, "crimes against humanity, scandals as they look at images, when they see images. Scandalize with reality and not with the vocabulary that we serve. And, finally, if you want it to be not criminalizing attitudes, you also want it because of the language and the ideas of your partner Albert Batlle, who believes that the great answer to the insecurity that Barcelona sees is to expel minors from the age. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.138.0	To position himself on the items, has the word now the deputy Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.139.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Niubó, the Aquarius is very good, but you can't live on income – you can't live on income. The same Pedro Sánchez who said when he authorized the arrival of the Aquarius vessel..., said: "This cannot be a marketing operation and this has simply remained in a marketing operation. Because today's reality is that it has all the non-governmental organization rescue ships doing the job that the government should be doing, the blocked teas, and you've threatened them with nine hundred and a thousand euros if they take one person, one person from the sea, and they take her here, say she's going to the safe port. You said: "You must go to the port more securely. He's sending them to Libya. Libya knows exactly what's going on. So this is the reality of today, not when Pedro Sánchez entered the government. So, what are we still talking about? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, we can talk about 2050 of the Aquarius if he wants to, too, but today's reality is that he's got the ships blocked and he doesn't let a single person come in. And who punishes, who wants to punish, those who carry it. I know, because we talked about it outside of here, that you don't share what the government is doing, and that's why it proposed it. Fem... they don't share it and we've talked about it outside. And, therefore, what I propose is: let's coordinate. Here we offer them, with the aim – that I greatly appreciate the transactions we have made with the commons – including a presupposition of 2020 to open a humane corridor. That's what we're proposing. Besides, all a logistical and operational solution to do it. But we can't do this alone. That's what we need, because the competitions are from the state, the state's authority, and that's what asked you, that you do the job. I don't know. He was also talking about what's going on at the southern border of Frontex. Frontex this week let a girl die, the Hanatah, let her die as she flew over the boat that had been sinking, that migrant people were navigating out of the boat in order not to weigh, because the boat is not disinflated and there are navigating again, it is turned. And the Spanish State, Maritime Rescue didn't do anything about it. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] Because it wasn't part of his rescue zone...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.140.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.141.0	...a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.142.0	Thank you. The debate is over, we're calling for a vote. [[Pause.]] We will obviously vote on the two motions separately. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, say'm, Lord Serrano. Say it, say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.143.0	To ask for a separate vote on all the points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.144.0	Everything? Two motions? All right. [[Pause.]] I get that, Congressman, including the sub-points, too, huh? All right. [[Pause.]] Well, we will initially vote on the motion following the government's inquiry into facilities and access to ports. As requested, we will vote separately on all points and subpoints of the motion. So, let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. The first point was approved by 74 votes in favour, 56 against, no abstentions and one Member present who did not vote. We're voting now for the 1 bis point. The vote begins. Point 1a was approved by 127 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting point two now. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 75 votes to 52, with 4 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This was approved by 75 votes to 16, with 40 abstentions. And now we're voting point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 75 votes to 40, with 16 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 75 votes to 52, with 4 abstentions. And now we're voting point number six. The vote begins. The sixth point was approved by 75 votes to 56, with no abstentions. And now we're voting point number seven. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 127 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. We're voting for point 8.a now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 91 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. We're voting now on the 4th, I'm sorry, point 8.a.bis. The vote begins. Point 8a bis was approved by 72 votes to 4, with 55 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 8.b. The vote begins. Point 8.b_was approved by 75 votes to 52, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now at 8.c. The vote begins. Point 8.c was approved by 72 votes to 59, with no abstentions. And we're voting now on point 8.d. The vote begins. Point 8.d was approved by 74 votes to 56, with no abstentions. And we're voting now at 8.e. The vote begins. Point 8 was approved by 73 votes to 56, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote point 8.f. The vote begins. Point 8.f was approved by 74 votes to 56, with no abstentions. We're voting now for point 8.g. The vote begins. Point 8.g_was approved by 75 votes to 56, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 8 a.m. The vote begins. This point was approved by 91 votes to 40 with 40 abstentions. We're voting now for point 8.i. The vote begins. This point was approved by 75 votes to 56, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote on 8.J. The vote begins. Point 8.j was approved by 74 votes to 5, with 49 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 8.k. The vote begins. This point was approved by 75 votes to three, with 52 abstentions. We're voting now for point 8.l. The vote begins. Point 8.l was approved by 75 votes to 36, with 20 abstentions. And we're voting now at 8.m. The vote begins. Point 8.m was approved unanimously, 131 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. And we're voting now on the 8th. The vote begins. Point 8.n_was approved by 127 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. And now we vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the ban on rescue operations in the Mediterranean, we will also vote on each of the points separately. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. The 1_point was approved by 74 votes to 55, with no abstentions. Quiet, and please. We now vote on the 1 bis– 1 bis point. The vote begins. Point 1a was approved by 127 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 75 votes to 52, with 4 abstentions. And now we're voting point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 75 votes in favour, against and 54 abstentions. And now we're going to vote number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 75 votes to 40, with 16 abstentions. And now we're voting point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 75 votes to 52, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting number six now. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 75 votes to 56, with no abstentions. And we're voting, yes, point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 76 votes in favour, 54 against, no abstentions, and one Member, a Member present who has not voted. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 127 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 8. The vote begins. Point 8.a_was approved by 88 votes to 4, with 39 abstentions. We're voting now on the 8th. The vote begins. The 8th session was approved by 75 votes to 4, with 52 abstentions. We're voting now on point 8.b. The vote begins. Point 8.b_was approved by 75 votes to 52, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now at 8.c. The vote begins. Point 8.c was approved by 75 votes to 56, with no abstentions. And we're voting now on point 8.d. The vote begins. Point 8.d was approved by 75 votes to 56, with no abstentions. We're voting now for point 8.e. The vote begins. Point 8 was approved by 75 votes to 56, with no abstentions. We're voting now for point 8.f. The vote begins. Point 8.f was approved by 74 votes to 56, with no abstentions. And we're voting now at 8.g. The vote begins. Point 8.g_was approved by 75 votes to 56, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 8 a.m. The vote begins. Point 8.h_has been approved by 91 votes to 40 abstentions. And we're voting now at 8. The vote begins. Point 8 was approved by 75 votes to 56, with no abstentions. And we're voting now at 8.J. The vote begins. Point 8.j was approved by 75 votes to 4, with 52 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 8.k. The vote begins. Point 8.k was approved by 75 votes to 4, with 52 abstentions. We're voting now for point 8.l. The vote begins. Point 8.l was approved by 75 votes to 36, with 20 abstentions. We're voting now for the 8.m point. The vote begins. Point 8.m was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. And finally, we vote on the 8th. The vote begins. Point 8.n_was approved by 127 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. There are no more points to vote. [[Greetings.]] We suspend the session until three-quarters of the late four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.145.0	Good afternoon; deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into mobility issues]] [[302-00135/12]] The new item on the agenda is the motion following the question to the Government on the issues of mobility, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, Mrs. Marina Bravo has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.146.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, not Spain steals from us, not all the fault is Madrid, nor is there any reason to think that, if this Government managed all the railway infrastructures, then we would not be much worse. In fact, there is enough reason to think that, if this Government or the previous ones had been responsible, for example, for the AVE, because perhaps we would have half built it and with huge cost overruns, as is the case with line 9. With this introduction, which is true that it does not have much to do with my motion, I would like to go a little further than that which, I imagine, will be the intervention of the groups supporting the Government, and which I foresee will be summed up in something like: « It is all the fault of Madrid. And I say that it will be part of your speech, therefore, not because I, for no reason whatsoever, think badly of the Members who are coming next, who I think know that is not the case, but because, nothing originally, they have made an amendment to our motion which comes to say precisely that. From Citizens, in our motion we ask that this Government be created once it is the holder of the rolling stock service and that, instead of criticizing it, it take care of it and improve it and do everything possible to make it a better service. We ask, for example, for a plan with 2030 horizon, eleven years, a road map – which would be good for this –; a road map to get better service and improve our trains. We ask, in fact, to invest in improving these trains. That I don't know if they know that there are other autonomous communities that do: that they invest in improving mobile material, even when they don't have the skills. And we ask for something so strategic – as they complain so much about Renfe – that it is studying, taking out the service to contest; that the SNCF, or FGC, or Virgin, or the operator that best service can give. And of all this, of improving the trains, of making a 2030 plan, of bringing it out to competition, what does the Government's amendment tell us? So let us put it aside, let us not think about any of that, and let us change it by asking for the umpteenth time for all the competences of the railway infrastructure. Well, look, I'm unable to understand how sitting and asking for more skills can be better than doing all this that we're asking you to improve the outcome of the rail service. And it's a shame. Not only because of how heavy it is to listen to them, but also because Spain steals from us, but also because of all the opportunities to improve our trains that are lost along the way. In any case, I told them that I have nothing against the Members who will speak next. And I take this opportunity, in fact, to thank them that on other points we have managed to reach agreements. In scheduling, for example, works such as those on line 9 or to include in the next PDI, the Infrastructure Master Plan, dissuasive parking. The urgency of environmental pollution has been on our heels for a long time. And the Administration has to be the first to act, the first, not the last. At another point in this motion, we ask you to do a good information campaign on this issue of environmental pollution, because I assure you that many people from Gavà or Tarragona who enter Barcelona almost every day have no idea whether they will be able to continue to enter their car next year, or the next year, or when. I invite you to check it, to ask and check it, and to explain very well, because it is your obligation, what we will have to face. We are also asking – and I would like to see what the different groups are voting for – for a young transport allowance in which, for EUR 30, our young people can move in public transport throughout Catalonia. It's not a populist measure. It's done in other communities. And, in fact, it's having very good results. In addition, in this motion we have a couple of points that I believe will not have gone unnoticed: one is to recognize that the third additional provision of the Statute does not bind the Government of Spain, and a second is to rectify and repeal the decree law of the VTCs, which we have already warned you that it would not only solve nothing but would give you many problems, as we are already seeing in the first sentences. They are two points that all they do is give them the opportunity to say here that they respect what the courts say. But in any case, as we know them and do not have much hope, we ask them to at least, yes, concentrate on doing everything else we ask of them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.147.0	To defend the papers presented, it is now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the return of Mr José Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.148.0	Thank you, President. First, I'd like to thank Congresswoman Bravo's dialy capacity. And I'll start with the points of contrast, of finding. And one of the important points of finding has been that the 2021-2030 Infrastructure Manager Pla is the instrument for prioritization and the design of the infrastructure needs and mobility of this country. Sometimes, even as parliamentary dialectics, and as the Member began, negotiations seem to have been tougher than it seems, sometimes Parliament's work allows consensus and positive consensus for the citizens. To make the PDI the tool to define the dissuasive parks that vagina reduce the use and the bust of the private vehicle for the benefit of public transport and intermodal transport or that it is possible to define the priority of widening the metro to Barcelona, moreover, with criteria of priority and timing is really positive. So, that's part of what we're pretty happy about this young man. There are also many times when a question has been accepted that sees that the report of the study being made by Railways of the Government of Catalonia on the train from Tarragona is being submitted; it is a subject that the territory is sensitive and that we have a special interest in it. But there are also elements that we disagree with. Strangely we have chosen, the points of disagreement, the same ones, it is to say... We, respect the theme rolls, we believe that sometimes fix on what can improve much bit or that on the fund you can not improve it because, on the fund, of infrastructures that depend on the state... And I'll actually quote... It's that getting into the issue of rail infrastructure or the issue of railway infrastructure that depends on the donor state for a monogram or even for many sessions of this Parliament. As a matter of fact, only in Barcelona – as with very thick things – the State should be making the Hospitallet's manoeuvring wheel, the Montcada manoeuvring wheel, finishing all the work of the Sagrera and opening a third railway tunnel for the centre of Barcelona. If we don't do all this, all the little better things we can do in Barcelona are a lot of mess. Outside Barcelona we also have – I could begin to list all the list – for example, the solution of the line to Tortosa, the solution of Vilafant, the unfolding of the line of Vic, the renewal of the line that goes to Puigcerdà, solve the nyap of the connection of Tarragona with high speed, or, naturally, the Mediterranean axis of goods. But, it's true, there are ideological positions confronted. It's all right. I mean, that's why there are different groups and different policy options. You continue to trust in a state that has as a priority railway investment sewing with the sons of AVE all the places of the country. And we don't, we don't trust him. In fact, the glaring contrast in how they manage the railway infrastructure of the State and how they manage Railways of the Government of Catalonia would give us a little reason to our ideological position. In any case, there's another dream, which I didn't want to stop looking. It's a thought that's not ours, that's common, referring to the Diagonal tram. We'll abstain. But it's an abstention that closes not blocking that comes forward [[Funnel veils]] – I'm sorry, Member –..., that you don't get ahead of the puzzle; forbearance, because, in the background, still agree to deepen the tramway's viability study, we don't agree with the pro- and anti-tramway fetishism for the Diagonal that has faded... – and say pro- and anti-tramway – that has hardly missed the studies around its viability. And we think that this thing has got a little bit of that fetishism. I want to end with a recon for the dialogue capacity of the deputy Bravo and the company of the Group of Joints for Catalonia, the deputy Clara. Who wants to do politics, what it does is dialogue, recognizes in another interlocutor, close to the agreements in which it is possible and appropriate positions. And you, Mrs. Bravo, have come here to do politics and it is well known. You didn't come here to give him the votes free of charge, nor did you refuse to recognize someone else as an interlocutor, such as the Spanish State and its presidents. Finding it in the negotiation was a pleasure, and more for the contrast that we have seen these days with another parliamentary chamber where we should seek agreements that seek to justify a repetition of elections. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.149.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Narcis Clara.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.150.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament and Government, guests... Madam Bravo, naturally I don't have anything against you either, I assure you. The mobility model we define and its planning will have a significant impact on our society. There is a direct relationship between, for one band, the development of cleaner vehicles and the efficiency and security of traffic and, for another band, the pollution of the air and the sound, the environment, the climate change and health. Consequently, the management of mobility and the solutions we implement based on innovative services and intelligent transport systems become a priority objective of the administrations. Only three examples. In planning, and in the framework of the Metropolity Transport Authority, work has already begun on the drafting of the new Pla Director of Infrastructures, 2021-2030. Second, in intelligent transport services, the Department of Lands and Sustainability is developing T-Mobility, so it is not intended to implement with presses if this means giving up services that are considered essential. And three, in the normal framework of mobility management, the Decree Law 4/2010_has entailed the stabilization of the conflict between taxis and VTCs. A pair of methodological considerations to his proposals. First of all, we share his insistence on optimizing resources; now, it is a problem that is multi-objective, and, therefore, individual partial solutions are not feasible. Secondly, naturally it is necessary to avoid duplicities, but, in change, it is asked to present a plan of long distance transport services of Catalonia when there is already the plan of transport of passengers of Catalonia 2020 and in short it will start the redaction for the period 2021-2025. However, we are satisfied with the points of agreement that we have reached. We were able to agree on an orientated investment plan that set priorities and include in the PDI the results of the development of the Park and Ride Park Urban Manager Plan. The investment forecast for the extension of the L9 from Santa Coloma de Gramenet to Badalona will also be studied and will be informed of the information study and the environmental impact of the Tarragona tram train. In environmental matters, we are fully convinced that traffic restrictions are necessary to ensure that pollution levels do not exceed established thresholds. Therefore, keeping the citizenry informed about this subject is indispensable. Where we disagree preferably is in the great themes. No one will be surprised if I tell them that we want to manage all the infrastructure of our country; railways, too. And a lot more than that, obviously. It is the State that does not meet the agreement of the Joint Committee on Transfers and Valuations of the year 2009, where it agrees to pass the competitions on infrastructure and rolling stock services. This agreement has not been implemented and there has been no response to the successive requests of the Government of Catalonia. In addition, you demand a greater expenditure on investments in many areas, but in change, and in the best of cases, we find your silence to the requests for increased funding made by the Generality. Because financing is the core of the problem. In the 2006 Statute it was tried to deal with this fact with two main proposals: the principle of regularity and the third additional provision. This provision makes a political pact that later the Constitutional Court disnaturalizes. That's right, this court says it doesn't link the State, but it doesn't say otherwise either. In fact, this provision was reflected in the Law of Presumables of the State of 2007, fully in force and not repealed today. It establishes that there will be an economic compensation between Catalonia's GDP and the state's investments in Catalonia. Now, Ciutadans does not defend this political pact. Do they perhaps prefer – and this is a question – that these moneys do not arrive in Catalonia? In any case, the root cause of infra-financing is that the expenditure that the Government of the State is making in Catalonia is much lower than its tax revenues, which is called "tax deficit, and which represents, in the middle of January, an 8_percent of Catalan GDP; an authentic black hole for the finances of the Government of Catalonia. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.151.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the return of Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.152.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, I'll start not talking about trains – in the end I'll talk about it, huh? – I will talk about something else that is also current today: the Court of the European Union has brought the Spanish State or will bring the Spanish State to trial, because we have certain parts of the territory – Madrid, Barcelona – with pollution tips over established shields. Mirin, emissions of greenhouse gases increased to Catalonia by 2,6_per_cent; diffuse emissions are 70_per_cent of the total and include transport as the first contaminating factor. In Catalonia, the year 2020, it should have reduced by 13_per_cent compared to the transport emissions of the year 2005; the reality is that these emissions have increased a percentage of 4_per_cent. This means that we need to focus on private transport, that we need to focus on the modernisation of the fleet of private vehicles that travel through the streets and the roads of our country; that means we need to take vehicles from the roads and the streets of our cities, above all the metropolitan areas, and that we need to make a better public transport, which is more massive, which is more efficient and more attractive, and which we need to place clearly from public assumptions for the electrification of transport. And, yes, we have to do a better management of the railways, but we also have to do a better management of Railways of the Generality of Catalonia. And, therefore, more investment is needed in the road network and more investment is needed in the railway network of the Generalitat de Catalunya; if not, I ask the users of the metro of Vallès how they come or how they go in the peak hours or, at the metro of Llobregat, also the delays they suffer and the lack of punctuality of some of the trains. And, therefore, it is necessary to make investments for what it refers to the State, the Government of Spain, but also for what it refers to the investments of the Government of Catalonia. Yesterday the President of the Generality, in this debate that urged the Ciutadans Group, when he was talking about the investments of the State in railway matters, he gave a jiphre, didn't he? , the degree or low presuppositional execution that was carried out. And I give it right to the President of the Generality. Now, there is one other thing that has been neglected, that is that the figures of presumptive execution of investments in railways and investments of the Government of Catalonia are in percentages similar to those of the Government of Spain. And, if you were to analyze the transparency data, I would also recommend the match they give... well, the two advisors I have here, who look at the transparency data, right? Because Infrastructures. How much do you publish the presuppositional execution figures of their investments..., of what year? From the year 2015; there is no more information. Maybe we made it look at each other, too, all folds. On the subject of T-Mobility, we have presented a proposal, which has been accepted by the Ciutadans Group, in which we say: "Home, if the year promised us, for the first time, that T-Mobility will be in operation, if it were the case that it is not, we understand that the Government and the Authority of Transport Metropolity must have made the relevant analyses in order to be able to apply some nine tariff crowns that are more equitable and fairer. That's what we're asking about our dream. We will not support, Mrs Bravo, the proposal to repeal the Passenger Transport Order by means of the driver's vehicle logger. We gave him support in the decree at the time, and now we won't support the derogation. And, finally, it is true, there was a ruling from the Constitutional Court that the third additional provision did not directly bind the State. Now, the reality is that there is a lack of palm investment in the State that respects the needs of Catalonia. And, therefore, we will not explicitly support this proposal. And I'm telling you, if we ever have the responsibility to rule again, I think we do. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out]] We'll keep on holding on to the assumptions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.153.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.154.0	...investor effort.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.155.0	Thank you. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.156.0	Well, I'd like to make three considerations and a fetishism, because someone was talking about fetishism today... so we're talking about fetishism, right? First of all, I think this young man is a little greenwashing operation, right? , conscious rent. I'm saying why it's produced in a context, right? , that we are ahead of the most possible sanction in this case by the European authorities for their position with Central Madrid and that, moreover, I suppose it is a good way to conceal, because you want to end with Central Madrid. I also recognize that Ciutadans' position in Catalonia is certainly different from that of the rest of the state, and even in Barcelona, right? , for the work done in this case by the proposer, and knows that I also appreciate it, because in many things we agree. But I also want to reflect, which you also talked about the differences you have with the counselor and with them... but I think in the model, in the end, they match. I think that in the end you're political in infrastructures that are old and gray, that are also the government's. Because it's a lot about climate change, it's a lot about climate emergence, but at the time of designing infrastructure policies, it never takes into account. In fact, we are the ones who have made them – and I am grateful that you have accepted them – to have in the planning and implementation of infrastructure policy, in this case, the climate emergency. But it's that at the time of truth they don't take into account. And, look, I'll give you an example; for example, in this case, with the project of the C-32, where you, the Socialist Party and the Government, coincided here, in an infrastructure that the courts have put an end to, and coincided with the Republican Left, and also coincided with Junts for Catalonia, which has put an end to it by a judicial authority, basically because it is incomplete with the Climate Change Law. And you, as well as the government, are getting used to making laws, making speeches about the climate change, but at the time of doing it, aren't you? , concrete policies do not take into account the impact of the production, in this case, of greenhouse gases or how it contributes to the climate emergency situation. The second thought I want to do is on the subject of the VTC taxi. I tell you with all my love: it's not love, it's obsession. So, you've finally become Uber and Cabify's supporters. I'll finally make the summary of the day... what did Citizens do today in the Parliament of Catalonia? So, look, for the morning he has defended the bank, because it can't be that we have a tax on the bank that earns 16,000_million euros, and in the late defense of two great companies, one in this case that operates in tax havens, that is Uber... I already told them one day: change the Spanish flag of the bracelet for the Dutch flag, because at the end you defend..., and what they defend are companies, in this case, like Uber, that what he does is to avoid his taxes, in accounts to defend the fourteen_1,000 families of the taxi that they see in Catalonia, in this case operating in Barcelona. [[Greetings.]] So, anyway... it's his project, it's his option, it's not ours, and so we'll vote against it. And anyway, I'm sure we'll fall, right? This proposal, which they already know they don't have a majority in this Parliament. And the third considered that they wanted to do it is on the subject of the third additional provision. Look, it's just that the debate isn't whether it's a compliment or not. The real debate is whether the first force of this Parliament, which is you, is Ciutadans, and therefore the first Catalan force in this Parliament, believes that the State's investments in Catalonia are insufficient or not, and especially the investments in infrastructure. I believe that, regardless of the position that each of you has on the relationship that Catalonia will have with Spain, it is clear that investments in Catalonia, especially for the rolling stock, are insufficient and that more resources are falling. And that in the end is the same if you are voting for Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana, Ciutadans or En Comú Pode, but all those people who take public transport every day and all those people who take, for example, the network of rolling stock knows that Catalonia, and especially the railway network, needs more investment by the State. And that's what the third additional provision refers to. So, it's not that I bind us, in this case, legally; it's that I think we should bind all of us politically, and it's that I think I should defend the first force of this Parliament of Catalonia. And I'm done with the subject of fetishism. Look, I finally think that Republican Left, on the topic of the Diagonal Tram, the position I held is depending on whether or not the Colau does the Colau. And what happens with the Diagonal tram is that you don't want it to be the Diagonal tram, because it will be the Colau tram. Explain it there, in this case, to the councillor of Territories and Sustainability, because equal fetishism does not have it ourselves, the president of the Metropolitan Transport Authority, who have approved the project of connection tram for the Diagonal, equal fetishism are the six stops that has approved the ATM, that will have the tram for the Diagonal. Therefore, in any case, fetishism is no longer ours, but it is of all those entities, such as the PTP, such as the Associação Aire Net, and all those people who want to traverse the Diagonal and it is not the tram of the Colau, lords of the Republican Left: it is the tram of all the people of Barcelona, of all the people of the metropolitan area and of all the people who want to breathe a clean air, in this case to the city of Barcelona and its metropolitan area. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.157.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position he has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Mrs. Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.158.0	Well, good afternoon. Before the deputy of Junts for Catalonia said: "We want to manage our infrastructure directly. Totally agreed: it managed directly, publicly owned, for which it makes rolls. Therefore, we, referring to point 3, if we seem to be interested in making all the past competitions effective..., it is obvious that it is not enough, because it does not solve the lack of rolling stock, which have very important consequences on the popular classes of this country, which is mainly moving with public transport, and also has a consequence, with its inefficiency and its precariousness, for which it does the environment. The measure on the target for young people, if it could be interesting..., nor the price they plant is so different from what is currently there. We believe that it is necessary to encourage the use of public transport by means of tariff reductions, their gratuity for young people, for people in a situation of economic vulnerability, and, in particular, insists on the recovery of management and public ownership of managers and the reinforcement and expansion of the public transport network, especially in rural and mountain areas, which guarantees the right to mobility of all people, a right that should be universal. T-Mobility, we discussed it, we talked about it on many occasions, in this plenary, also to the Committee of Territories. They know, and we know, that we have this layout, that T-Mobility is not a solution to transport; it's an invention that has been about the handle, that only serves because private companies are getting rich again with public assumptions. He's talking about supposed incompliments. Don't you... need more evidence on the incompliments of the Box and Indra, with this corporation they've made with Soc Mobility, of the amount of incompliments that there is in relation to T-Mobility? What it is necessary to take full over the management of T-Mobility and stop taking over these businesses. But the problem and the trap on the Diagonal trams is the model which, yes, Mrs. Colau and Catalonia in Comú, which is basically about facilitating interconnection with the Diagonal, but through – a little more – a private title. And that's why we're not in favor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.159.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Santi Rodríguez. When you want...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.160.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies and deputies, well, it is obvious that a change in the transport model, especially in those areas..., has to be addressed in forty municipalities around Barcelona, above all, that they suffer from a greater contamination and that they require measures to be taken. Many years ago, we were aware of this situation, and we have always maintained the same theory: to push for changes in transport patterns and to encourage citizens to stop using private transport, which is to be made strong investments in public transport and to ensure genuine and viable public transport alternatives. And that, to the extent that he is responsible for both the Administration of the State and the Administration of the Generality, has not been done so. How many years have we been talking about building dissuasive parkings at certain points to facilitate access to public transport and to facilitate access to the metropolitan area? And the reality is that they're very few that could be put into operation. Therefore, yes to the model change; yes to reduce contamination; it is essential to address investments from the public sphere to improve public transport and configure it as an authentic alternative to private vehicle transport. And then some more elements. On T-Mobility, one Member said to us: "I don't have any pressure on this because if it has to be done badly... No, no, don't worry. If you press we don't have it; I don't know how many years ago we've been talking about T-Mobility and it seems to me that today is the first time that the possibility is raised that two years from now or three years from now it can't be implemented and, therefore, we need to rethink our pricing system. Well, no, if you press one, but what's going on is that we've been talking a long time and that the warmest is in the water. It has also been said that the problem of infrastructure is financing. So they'll let me tell them, so no; I'm sure they won't. The problem of the Generality's infrastructure at this time is not so much the financing but the fact that the last governments that the Generality of Catalonia has had have been unable to make assumptions. Four, concretely: 2013, 2016, 2017 i 2018. And without presuppositions there can be no infrastructure. There's been a lot of talk about Rodalies, and so much! But, look...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.161.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.162.0	...a server can still go every day, go and go home with Rodalies; what it cannot is take the L9 of the metro to travel to Barcelona. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.163.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers has the new word the deputy Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.164.0	Thank you, President. Well, no surprise from the groups that support the government. « Spain steals from us, all the fault is Madrid and if we managed everything would be fantastic. Well, run it. Manage the 9_de_metro line and finish the line; manage Alguaire airport and get the three hundred_ thousand travelers who said when they built it they would have; manage the Segarra-Garrigues channel. They manage, if they have much to manage. About us not supporting them when we ask for more funding for Catalonia, so of course we support them. It is not that we say it, it is that we have done it in the budgets that we have supported in the Congress of Deputies – we have done it. They had very good funding for Catalonia, which went up a lot compared to the previous year. What we are not going to support is that, along with this budget claim, things are being said that ‘we have a completely exhausted, desolate society that is sick of the colonial exploitation that we suffer, which is what its president says when he talks about infrastructure budgets. The third additional provision does not link – it does not. You can repeat it with me: it doesn't tie. It can be invested according to GDP, of course, but that has no logic, if not, the 9_de_metro line, which is a very high percentage of GDP because we have already spent 6,000_million and we will spend 16,000_million, would be a very good investment for Catalonia and yet it is only a black hole of money. Examples such as this justify that investment on the basis of GDP is not as it should be, but on the basis of needs. In Catalonia the Mediterranean Corridor has to be made, yes, but not for a percentage of GDP, for a share of GDP, but because the second and third most important city of Spain have to be connected with a double track in conditions, not for any other reason. Natalia, you were telling me that our proposal for a young card to move around Catalonia hardly changed the current price. The six-zone young card is now three hundred euros and we propose thirty. Let's see if it's going to be that what's little money for you to me is much more; that I don't know anymore. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.165.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.166.0	And sir, José Rodríguez, Congressman Rodriguez told me that with what we have with the trains we can do little. A_third of the incidences that occur in rhaelies are the responsibility of the trains that are the competence of the Generalitat, a_third. What for you must be crumbs. Leave us and you'll see how much can be done. Thank you. [[Greetings. Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.167.0	Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.168.0	Yes; President, to ask for a separate vote on 7 and 9, which can be voted together, and on 3.2, separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.169.0	All right. [[Bernat Sole and Barril ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Solé?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.170.0	Yes; President, it is to ask for separate vote of points 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 9, which can be grouped, and point 8 and 4 also separately, 8.4 – forgive.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.171.0	He said two, three, four...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.172.0	2, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 9, which more coincide with the common partners and point 8.4 separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.173.0	8.4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.174.0	This one separately, yes. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.175.0	Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.176.0	I think it's complicated, president, for one band, point 7 and, for another, a block that sets 4, 5, 9 and 3.2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.177.0	All right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.178.0	Yes; to ask for a separate vote on the Diagonal tram, that is, point 8.4. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.179.0	8.4, it had already been requested, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.180.0	To ask for separate vote – which can be voted together – of 3, 4 and 5, and another bloc that have already called for 7 and 9.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.181.0	All right. I'll try to follow the vote, if there's anything that doesn't match because we've done the groups, they tell me. We will vote in the first place point number 2– point number 2. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 68 votes to 64, with no abstentions. We're voting point three now without 3.2, huh? 3.2. We shall vote separately. Therefore, the 3, without the subpoint 2. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. In point 3, there was a tie: 64 votes in favour, 64 against and 4 abstentions. So let's go back to voting point 3, I insist: without 3.2. The vote begins. There was again a tie: 64 votes in favour, 64 against and 4 abstentions. And, therefore, we should vote a third time at this point. The vote begins. The same was true: 64 in favour, 64 against, 4 abstentions. And, therefore, this point declines. Keep going. We now vote on point 3.2 – 3.2. The vote begins. Point 3.2 was rejected by 40 votes to 64, with 28 abstentions. We're voting points 4 and 5–4 and 5 – now, aren't we? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The four, separately? [[Pause.]] Let's vote point four, then. The vote on Point 4 begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 48 votes in favour, 64 against and 19 abstentions. And we're voting on point five now. The vote begins. Point 5 was rejected by 48 votes to 68, with 16 abstentions. We're voting point seven now. The vote begins. Point 7 was rejected by 40 votes to 92, with no abstentions. We're voting now on point 8.4. The vote begins. Point 8.4_was approved by 64 votes to 4, with 64 abstentions. We're voting point nine now. The vote begins. Point 9_has been rejected by 41 votes to 75, with 16 abstentions. We're voting now for the rest of... [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.]] What did you miss, Mrs. Sanchez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.182.0	I'm sorry, it was my mistake. Before I said 5 and I was referring to the 5th, that I would need to vote it apart and then it is already. The 5 bis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.183.0	It's that we've already voted for the fifth. I know it's hard, we've voted the joint of the bridge. Did they ask for a separate vote on the 5a point? No, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no. They asked for 4 and 5 separately. Therefore, the vote was taken on item 5. We're voting for the rest of the young man, for that matter. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved: 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of unaccompanied minors]] [[302-00132/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the situation of unaccompanied minors, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.184.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, a couple of weeks ago we spoke, we asked the Councillor about the situation of the last months – the last years in a more intense way – with the coming of..., with the hints that there were fewer strangers not accompanied. And I think that we were in full... that we had already done different questions, but I think that at least the situation was getting worse because of the large number of minors arriving and appearing... "it seemed not, in fact, to overflow the forecasts and possibilities of the Department of Social Affairs and Families so as to try to give an answer to this need that we had, that we had in a very obvious way. It's not the only question that's about to overflow the welfare department and family, there's been other questions, but this was probably one of the most critical, isn't it? And, in this sense, we were going to ask the question to address some of the issues that concern us, that concern a significant part of the citizenry. And in the first place, it was, therefore, the creation of these centres of emergence, which is obviously done in a way, I would say, hasty. Reasonably, surely, to address a situation in which young people and adolescents are, in many cases, sleeping in vestibules of commissariats of Mossos d'Esquadra, in other cases on the street, now, after all, even, in some church, and, therefore, had to be approached in some way. It is a fan of these centres of emergence, with managements that in some cases are not transparent. That is why we are asking the House for a piece of information to be made available to Parliament's parliamentary groups on a periodic basis. We ask that, as far as possible, first of all, we do not chronicle the centres of emergency, that is, that there are no centres to address a transitory situation and that it is converted into a definitive situation. It is not this, or much less, the best solution to tackle the inclusive work of all these young people, for one thing. And on the other hand, the amount of young people that accumulate in these centers, so it doesn't make them pleasant spaces, does it? That's for one thing. On the other hand, we cannot ignore, we say in the inquiry, that a minority – I repeat, and it is a minority, and I must make it clear – of these young people commit crimes; an 18_per_cent, to be fair, eh? , according to information from the Squad Mossos. But, in addition, they do so with a major recidivism: 3.9 times the commission of crimes for each of these young people who commit crimes is a high recidivism. And, therefore, I believe that this does not favor the integration work that can be done on the joint collection of young people and we believe that it is worth taking action; brave, without any doubt, but measures must be taken. And we already know that these young people cannot be returned to their homelands because they are underage. But we can use the agreements that the Spanish Government also has with regard to the return of these young people to their countries of origin to be where they are to be, which is with their families – which is with their families – instead of being in our society. We also ask in the motion to raise a little more sight, not just to stop taking action for the situation we are living at this time, for the situation of the number of young people coming to Catalonia, they come to Barcelona to look for a project of life, but to raise a little sight and see them being able to improve or enhance cooperation with the countries of origin and with the cities of origin, which are perfectly identified, so as to facilitate the fact that they are found in minors, that they are with their families and not opt for the alternative of emigration, in order to adopt a journey on which they themselves, many times, therefore, have many uncertainties and then continue to have many uncertainties. Therefore, we understand that it is important that these cooperation projects be in place to offer to keep these young people with their families as a viable alternative to immigration. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.185.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. He then has the word, to defend the papers presented, in the first place the deputy Raúl Moreno, of the PSC and Units for Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.186.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Councillor, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar have presented three points in this motion that complement some aspects that we agree with; with others I do not, and I will refer to it later, right? In principle our discussions were to make the 92/12 motion on the system of protection for children and adolescents, which we discussed in this Parliament a few months ago, and to lay down the necessary collaboration between the Government of Catalonia and the assemblies and different institutions at the time of the minor non-accompanied and of the creation of centres of emergency. And there are two more items that go in the line of proposing what to do or what to do with the children who are in a collide center. We propose training courses, knowledge of the background, language; a common training and compulsory compliments for the entities that manage the children's centres in Catalonia. Because many of them or many of these entities in some cases do not have a common training program. They all do what they think they should do with the young, with the unaccompanied children, but we think it would be good to enjoy their stay, so to have a regular training program that allows them to have..., well, take them and have the necessary knowledge in terms of language, knowledge of the surroundings, which can make their inclusion much more positive. But I would like to focus my intervention on two points of this motion. For a band, the one who talks about the voluntary return of minor strangers not accompanied. Our parliamentary group agrees with facilitating the return of all children who want to return home voluntarily. It is not us who deny them the opportunity to see or live with their families again; now, doing so is not easy. It is not possible only with the will of the child. Among other things, to locate the family, a report of the social services of origin, an agreement between the state government of origin and the government that returns them, hence the import of the Catalonia-Morocco Programme, a professional follow-up and legal assistance throughout the process. I need to know that they will be safe in their country of origin, I need to analyze it on a case-by-case basis, I need to know that they will not sleep on the street. There are other administrative processes that further complicate the return, but it is possible. Now... in fact, it's already done in some cases. Now, a minor's refusal is enough reason to invalidate any pact between governments to return him. We believe that the wording of the point, which speaks of the voluntary return, is not quite accurate to this reality and for this reason we will abstain. Any kind of return that is not voluntary, by any other circumstance, is illegal. It cannot be done if it is to be completed with international treaties, European directives or the same Spanish Constitution. By the time a minor is forcibly returned for the purpose of committing crimes, the principle of the superior good of the minor as an individual for the greater good, which is that of the community, is subverted, and therefore we skip article 3 of the UN Convention on the Rights of Infants, the European Charter of the Rights of the Child and article 39.4 of the Spanish Constitution. Moreover, the return of a minor's force to commit crimes, whether on time or not, runs counter to Article 5 of the agreement between Spain and Morocco on the prevention of illegal migration of unaccompanied minors. And I say a jutge? So neither. The possibility of using expulsion as a sanctioning measure for the child is not expressly provided for in the Organic Law 5/2000, which regulates the criminal responsibility of minors. I remind you that minors are not registrars for the Criminal Code. The band of the legal mark, which makes expulsion impossible, so we ask ourselves some questions. Would it be helpful to solve the problem? Do you consider that returning an unaccompanied minor who has made a tortuous and dangerous trip to Europe via Spain will not prove it again? Returning minors does not imply that they do not continue to arrive, and continue to arrive. And the batteries must be put in place to manage this new reality without taking on attractive solutions that seem easy, but which run counter to national, international and human rights legislation. When they propose forced eviction is not priority the protection of the child, what is wanted is to take 'on the problem of over. Does that mean that we can't do anything with minors who aren't accompanying crimes? No, no, We have to put them in front of the prosecution and we have to demand the maximum force in the application of the law for those two_of_each_of_a minority– who commit crimes. In short – and I'm finished – I think, ladies and gentlemen, we need to make this complex problem, a country problem, which is, and we have of all people looking for solutions, always within the law, so that we don't find them easy, to problems as complicated as that. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.187.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the turn of Deputy Marta Ribas, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.188.0	Well, let's go on, let's go back to the children and young people who don't come to our country. It is one of the important issues that are happening in the past year in Catalonia, in the past years, and that will continue to happen and that we will continue to have our reality and, therefore, it is important that we speak from the proposals of the various parliamentary groups, today with a proposal from the People's Party. I take this opportunity to reiterate the speech and speeches and the report that we have always made from our parliamentary group on this subject. This, first of all, is a country issue. You know, counselor, we've said it since the first day and we share it in this sense. It's a theme where we always regret that there's not enough foresight. It's not new, it wasn't unpredictable that there would be migrations that were basically young and that would go up. They know that we also always reiterate the denunciation of the general discoordination that has occurred in trying to address this issue; discoordination within the Government, discoordination between administrations, State Administration and with local administrations. They know that we have always called for measures with a view to when they become majors: what happens when they split years? The system leaves them alone, we must also take steps to respect and know that we have approved in this Parliament a proposal of law, of my parliamentary group precisely, to make access to the performance of the extolls more viable to all the reality of the current guardianships in Catalonia. And we know that we have always said that this requires resources and that we have been pleased that, during this year, an important effort has been made by the Government of the Generality to take all available resources in order to be able to respond to an emergency we had in the world. In this past year, things have changed respect for all these elements of complaint: respect for uncoordination, respect for non-prevision, respect for non-resources. They've changed things in good shape, but there's still a lot to do. Much remains to be done, and some of the aspects in which much remains to be done are what motivated one of the issues that has been precisely incorporated into the People's Party's motion; a point that we are trying to make visible is that everything is coming back to that which is not yet well covered in the professional and corporate scales of the sector. And that it is a sector, especially professional ones, that already suffer very and very precarious conditions, with some workloads, of a system that is in trouble and that needs to be reviewed – the child protection system – and on which children and young people have now returned their attention and not accompanied by an unanticipated, right? , how we are doing a long-term or medium-term treatment, therefore, a lot of emergence. In this sense, the thought that, as I said, has been accepted and incorporated, is to ensure decent and correct working conditions. We regret, however, that in changing the other two points that we have made... – there is no time, Vice President – there is no time –; I warn you from down there, I also warn you, now I have not finished. We also regret that the other two items we have made, however, have not been incorporated. One, respecting the guardianship floors, is a theme that is in the country strategy to address this issue and that has been approved in other parts of the world, and I think it is important that we also draw as these types of servants should be. I, the other, to understand the logical "security of the point 2 and the motion of the People's Party to a more logical mediation. Because the main problem in the barrel where there are centers of emergence is not of security, but of coexistence. And I end up respecting the two points that refer to the expulsion of unaccompanied minors. What you're doing is asking for it to be incomplete with international conventions, our own Children's Protection Law and the Spanish Constitution. The solution does not pass through these lives; the solution passes only to offer itineraries of an autonomous life. And the return can only be, if it is free and voluntary and with the guarantee of all rights, and therefore from bilateral collaboration programs. That's not what you're putting us on both sides of the table when you're talking about this, and so we'll vote against it. And, in addition, we complain that they do not take advantage of this issue, neither you nor any other parliamentary groups. Proposals like this only serve to create an environment that hinders the integration of children and young people that we already have in our country, to whom we have the obligation to guarantee rights of citizenship, and because I think the People's Party needs to agree with this phrase: to complete the laws, before the crimes the application that is to be made is that of the laws, and to complete with our own Constitution. They're not demagicating on this subject, please. At these points, we will vote strongly but not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.189.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of MP Najat Driouech, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.190.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies and the people you are accompanying us. Well, before I begin, I would like to reiterate my condemnation of any attack on social welfare centres, especially minors. In Catalonia, we get a half-life of forty-five children without a family reference day by day and this fact puts pressure on all our social services, because it's a very big challenge that we don't have control over, because no one can control migration flows. And the State is making an omission of responsibility for what it does to coordination, making it difficult to do all the work that has to be done with respect. And unfortunately, the department encapsulated for Councillor El Homrani continues to work tirelessly to manage this challenge. Thanks to the involvement of professionals, entities and local authorities, the department has been able to give an answer to a huge part of this reality and since June 2017, 3,200 new places have been created, with 257 serving us and resources; you serve and resources of different types to meet all the needs: the gathering, the emergence, the long stay and the support to autonomy. Without going any further, this same week, a 14.5_million support plan was presented for the joints and local councils that have some smaller centers. Thus, it involves the contracting of one hundred_two civic dynamitzadores to network between centers, accompany the most vulnerable young people and increase the employability for insertion. We must not forget that we are talking about minors who have made the journey of adult migrants with all its complexity and all that entails. Therefore, as minors, we must give them the opportunities that all young people deserve regardless of where they were born and without stigma or harm. I can only say, however, that we were surprised by the text of his motion, because the Spanish State has governed it until recently, and therefore they are equally responsible for the lack of information about the arrival of minors to other addresses in Catalonia, which makes it difficult after planning many of the services to improve this attachment. We could say a lot of things, but we won't, because it's a very sensitive subject. And if the text of the motion already incorporates many of the proposals that the department already has ingenuities, that it already brings to term, we can do nothing but vote for them. Therefore, we will give support to these, but we cannot give support, as Marta Ribas or Moreno said, to the points that make reference to return. We cannot allow this, because we are talking about minors, to criminalize them and stigmatize the entire collection if we accept this point. Finally, I would encourage them to follow in this line because in many of the points we agree and most of the groups agree that we continue to guarantee the rights of the most vulnerable, who are the least object of this motion. They demand that we continue to fight attacks and stigmas, they demand that they help us remove one of the most unequal obstacles, the Law of Foreign Affairs. I can change it, I can change it, and you know it and you know we can do it. How young do we ask him to hold a 40-hour one-year work contract in a solvent company? The young man's head. Young man, today, as the situation is, may have a contract of this type. On the other hand, when a young person has passed through the protection system and has residence permits and wants to access the labour market, the Foreign Law puts him back in the exit box, again in a situation of vulnerability. That said, just ask them if we'd like to go to one and ask for the foreign law change. And before I finish, I would like to remind and appeal to the consciousness of the Catalan citizenry towards the gathering, because many people, many citizens and citizens, in their municipalities where they have centres of minors are doing a responsibility exercise or an exercise with which the only one they try to do is to guarantee a real inclusion of all young people who have arrived and live in their municipality, because they are also from this municipality; we are not only talking about mentoring, but we are talking about many other things. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.191.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Saloua Laouaji, from Junts to Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.192.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon. We know perfectly well that we are ahead of a problem, of a very complex subject. The migration process of the underage is the most unjust, cruel and harsh reality of migration, it is the pending assignment of political failures of development cooperation, migration and exile, which has not been resolved at European or international level. And it makes us witness a normalized massacre every day in the Mediterranean Sea and some sad human misfortunes in the streets and sometimes in the commissariats as well. I know a person who's migrated. And I migrated with the majority of years, with dreams, with training, with family references to the country of origin, but despite all this the life of a migrant woman was not easy. And I think that the migration or exile experience of any person is very hard. And the migration of minors is still much more. And it's not a novelty. I personally worked on the subject more than ten years ago with the Jaume Bofill Foundation, the Terrassa Assembly and other entities. And the two situations face old problems with new standards, which do not improve the conditions of these lesser ones. And we are in a constant contradiction with international regulations for the protection of minors, especially the United Nations Convention and especially in the context of the right of the child, ratified the year 90 for the Spanish State. The current regulation presents a _marc with difficulty in the integration mechanism that presents more problems than we do not solve. With bureaucratic labyrinths and ineffective and unjust laws there is a lesser patent. In fact, the same legislation is already discriminatory and little protective, because those responsible have different criteria, without obvious that the interests of the Administration are that they are major in order to be able to expel them and thus end the problem. Obviously, our Government of the Generality does many things in relation to this subject, but I think we can do more to end rumorology and stigmatizing gaze, and many times dehumanizing, towards the unaccompanied infants to better understand their harsh reality, to properly hear their needs and their situation of lack of protection and defence. Many of these minors already know the different injustices of life and society's rapes, because they have suffered rape, have been assaulted, have won, have slept in the street. And the list of rapes is very long. But when you get close to talking to some of these kids and you find many times with a mature infant, who doesn't know what the baby is, that no one has ever read her a count before bedtime. But he's got no grudges and he's willing to pull forward to have a better future than the past that's touched him to live. We must emphasize the fact that the issue does not permeate all our local and European policies, and there is still a lack of shared responsibility for the country of origin, for the State and for the Government, but without repeating the same failed experiences in the past. We need to recognize that the issue is coming up with solutions to myths, and, moreover, we basically lack the sovereignty in the matter of the Foreign Law, which is in fact the main problem. Yeah, that's the main problem, and we need to repeal that problem. The residence permit must be tied to the work permit. A legislative change is needed, for which it seems that the Spanish Government has no interest, and we are bringing this issue back many years ago. With regard to the different points of the motion, we would vote in favour of most points because we share many positions, less those points that want to replace pedagogy, educational and social work for security, criminalization and demagogicism. We think that it is necessary to do an individualized, personalized, longitudinal and transnational work, to make the results more visible. And the conversion of large centres into small centres is also recommenable and necessary. It is true that many of the youngest children are related to their families, and that is normal, but we need to be aware that they know perfectly well that they are not welcome back to the family, because mostly, as you know perfectly well, they come from families of the extreme poor, families of social exclusion and unstructured families. And we don't have to make a big view before that, because when a child wants to leave the family protection means that the situation is not normal. I can't say a thousand times that the Government of Catalonia would govern better against the mafias and the traffickers, with responsibility... and, moreover, it would do a better management of the returns linked to migrations, to the management of diversity, if we kept the tools and the competitions attached. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.193.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Deputy Naomi of the Street, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.194.0	Good afternoon, everyone. When we talk about unaccompanied minors we are talking about young people who have had to leave their homes, leave their families behind traveling thousands of miles alone. The vast majority arrive in a deplorable state of health and on many occasions emotionally broken by traumas they suffer during the journey. The Organic Law on the Legal Protection of Children obliges us to care for and guarantee their internationally recognized rights, and also autonomous laws, such as the Children's Law, oblige the Generalitat to ensure a space where they can feel safe and accompaniment where bonds and respect are generated. There is an urgent need for a common European strategy, in which we must all contribute, at higher levels, such as the European Commission and the Government of Spain, which must take advantage of to continue to put in place measures to alleviate the emergency situation that we are currently experiencing. When in 2016 we asked insistently for the « children of the tail, we knew that if this problem were addressed in time we could prevent the phenomenon from spreading and chronifying. More than two years ago, from Citizens we began to insist on the need for a strategy, while the Director General of DGAIA seemed to be too busy self-sourcing millionaire grants. In January 2017 we registered a proposal for the Government to act ahead of schedule, not through emergency procedures and emergency procedures, as is now being done. In July 2017, we asked the Government in a motion in this Chamber to use part of the contingency fund to alleviate the critical situation of DGAIA; the Government not only voted against it, but it took a whole year to get us to grips with it, and it was not until the summer of 2018 that it scratched some millions of the contingency fund to deal with what was beginning to be a humanitarian crisis. We recognize that it is a difficult challenge to address, which requires foresight and strategy, but the solution does not deny the gravity of the situation until it is inevitable. Today we have an emergency situation that the Government is not managing well. Its only action is to open centres as it can, without any planning or coordination with the municipalities, without carrying out the training and cohabitation activities necessary for the neighbors of the area to know the reality of these minors. From here we send our appreciation to the workers of the centers, who have also suffered the abandonment of a council that has not put the necessary tools to carry out their educational and therapeutic work under decent conditions. According to government data, there are 82_percent of unaccompanied minors who have not committed a crime but have to endure a stigma that will accompany them for a significant part of their lives. Thanks to this survey we also know that 78_percent of the minors come in a consensual way with their families and that six_of_each_ten would have paid an average of 1,500_euros to mafias who would be taking advantage of them. We have tabled an amendment to point 2.f, because of the problems explained by Mr Raúl Moreno; an amendment which we thought could have the consensus of all the groups, because it had already been ratified by all in a recent institutional declaration: we placed governments in a coordinated way with the countries of origin in order to avoid the uprooting of all these young people's exodus to Spain, and also to facilitate the reintegration of these minors with their families in origin, when this was the best interests of the child. In the current situation and, I repeat, in order to avoid confusion, in the current situation that we have in Catalonia, from Citizens we understand that an unaccompanied minor will be better with his family in the country of origin, rather than sleeping on the ground of the City of Justice or on the floor of a police station; he would be better with his family of origin, rather than snorting tail or sleeping in satin; he would be better with his family of origin than captured by a mafia that sexually exploits or exploits them. That is so, as long as their protection and security in their countries of origin can be guaranteed. We regret that it was not accepted, because, just as there are cases in which minors would be better cared for with their families in the countries of origin, there are other cases in which they should prevail... In all cases the best interests of the child must prevail, but it is that there would be cases of negligence, abandonment or ill-treatment than in this case, because..., in no case should the child return to the family in the country of origin. In view of this situation of violation of rights, our responsibility is to ensure the physical and emotional well-being of these children. We regret that this amendment has not been accepted, and I take this opportunity to announce that we have introduced it in our proposals for real Catalonia, a text that was recently of consensus in that institutional declaration and which we hope can be adopted. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] And, finally, the demonstrations that have taken place in front of the various reception centres are intolerable, and we must unanimously express our condemnation. But the action of the Administration cannot remain in a condemnation; it has to coordinate with the municipalities, carry out training activities in the neighborhoods... Because things would be very different if we knew the reality and the human tragedies that many of these minors live, because the experience shows...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.195.0	You're out of your mind, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.196.0	... – yes, I conclude – that it is possible to promote a culture of human rights and break down stereotypes and prejudices by improving our society and the future of these children. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.197.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix its position, the Member of Parliament, Nattalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed has now the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.198.0	Nice one more time. Minors and minor non-accompanied are people who are in a very vulnerable situation and who, like minors who are to be held by our institutions, are institutions that have developed a legal framework that recognizes and is based on the Convention on the Human Rights of the Infant, which has already been cited. At the same time, this necessary attention is met by topalls on the part of these institutions: an unsustainable and collapsing situation of the DGAIA, a lack of sufficient resources, a privatized and pre-characterized system; an outsourcing of centres to third-sector entities or private enterprises, with a lack of direct management on the part of the Administration, a phenomenon which, moreover, generates the possibility of rotating doors or questions such as those we have encountered with Mr. Ricardo Calvo. A situation in which we are not giving an answer to the height of circumstances. For what it does to the proposal of the People's Party, if there are some questions that we can agree with, we believe that we cannot, implicitly or explicitly, continue criminalizing young people and adolescents who are in a vulnerable situation. Why? Because they give away the extreme right, which is manifest and attacks the centres of minors, and directly the minors. I need to stop this crime, and this young man is full of this report. These young people are here to stay, to live well, and we have to gather them like lime. Of course, "not to the ambiguities of the deportations posed by the PP, those posed by the mayor of Barcelona or those we use in projects such as A el Amal Marroc, that we will continue to vote on a motion for a resolution that we have submitted to the CUP, first, because of the need to audit the project of 2006 Catalonia-Magrib, and second, because this Parliament is totally against any position that might pose a deportation of these minors. So that we do not have clear responsibility as to the global north, as to white Europe, for the reality of the countries of origin, we cannot give a clear answer. Therefore, we also place the advice to explain to us and put us on the ambiguities of these projects that may have possible forced deportations. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.199.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To pronounce on the exams, has the new word the deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.200.0	To clarify, huh? Either they didn't read the motion or they didn't listen to my intervention. I didn't talk – it also went for Mr. Moreno, huh? – no expulsions, no returns, no deportations. Another thing is that you may have liked to hear these words or read these words in a popular party movement. No, we're not talking about this. He says: "I return to your family surroundings, okay? I didn't say anything about that that you put in our seat and in our mouth. Voluntary return is not easy. [[Widow's remorse.]] Voluntary return is not easy. Mr Vice-President, according to what you say among the Members, I am prevented from developing my argument, and time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.201.0	[[The first vice president starts talking without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...keeping silences. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.202.0	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.203.0	Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.204.0	Okay. It's been 20 seconds without you calling anyone's attention. Thank you. Voluntary return is not easy. No, if you already know, that it's not easy, that you have to complete a lot of requests, you know. Are there any difficulties? Yeah. Locate the family members? No, no, They're practically all identified, young people's families, practically all of them. Relationships between governments? Yeah. That is why the Government of Spain has agreed with governments of other countries to facilitate these returns. And they've applied and they're applying. And they've applied and they're applying, Mr. Moreno, yes. Now, it's not that the return isn't easy: the return is impossible if the government didn't want to put a thread in the needle and start applying it. I'm already apologizing, huh? But I have always spoken, and I will continue to do so, from a minority, that the Mosses quantify in the 18_percent of these young people, who are the ones who commit crimes. I will be excused, but little will to integrate into our society have this 18_percent of young people, who with a high recidivism, 3.9 times of recidivism, and in some cases with sexual crimes, little will to integrate into our society. In relation to the papers, we rejected the Juntes for Catalonia, we also rejected the first of Ciutadans; we understand that the writing of our young man is much clearer than the text you proposed to us. We may have tried a deal on the subject of security, because we recognize that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.205.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.206.0	...mediation can be a tool, together with security measures. You wanted to talk only about mediation, we preferred to talk about two things, and therefore it was not possible to reach an agreement. Yes, we did accept one...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.207.0	Congressman, bring more than a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.208.0	...and we've accepted all three of the Socialist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.209.0	Thank you. [[Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.210.0	To request a separate vote on item 2.f.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.211.0	2.f., all right. [[Bernat Sole and Barril ask to speak.]] Mr. Solé?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.212.0	Yes, President, separate vote on points 2.d, 2.e and 2.f.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.213.0	Two, did you forgive me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.214.0	2.d, 2.e and 2.f.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.215.0	2.e. Can they vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.216.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.217.0	All right. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Granados? Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.218.0	You should go to separate the 2.d, for one band, and the 2.f, for the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.219.0	All right. [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.220.0	Yes, he also voted separately from 2.d, and f– that in our case they could go together, but the rest did not – and he voted separately from 2.j.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.221.0	All right. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.222.0	For reading point 2.f.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.223.0	2.f., all right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.224.0	All right. So we start precisely by voting on 2.f, so we do the pre-reading... ask the secretary Delgado to do the reading of 2.f point, which is the first one we will vote. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.225.0	"In the face of the commission of criminal acts by minors, the necessary management with the Government of Spain, according to the international agreements signed, in order to get the return to its family environment of origin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.226.0	All right. We're voting this point, 2.f. The vote begins. The 2.f_point was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 92 against and 36 abstentions. We're voting now for point 2.d. The vote begins – 2.d. The 2.d_point was rejected by 40 votes to 76, with 16 abstentions. We're voting point two now. The vote begins. Point 2.e_was rejected by 56 votes in favour, 75 against and no abstentions. We're voting now for the 2.j point. The vote begins. The 2.j_point was approved by 128 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 131 votes to one, with no abstentions. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into external delegations]] [[302-00136/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into the foreign delegations. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mrs Susana Beltrán. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.227.0	Thank you. I was pleased that this young man was introduced to Councilman Bosch, because, among other things, we ask for his reprobation, but I see that it is not there. Anyway, I'll explain it in person. Look, one of the things I'm asking myself is when a part of the citizenry will come to terms with what the government is doing with the benefit and with the support of the parties that support it. They are objective facts: 80_percent of the appearances that we have asked the Foreign Affairs and Transparency Commission, the parties that support the government have blocked them. More than four years without the delegates, the heads of the external delegations – more than four years. Does that seem normal to you? Do not publish agendas, meetings, contacts. So, the band that don't show up, they don't know what they're doing because they don't publish the agendas either. And from that, the government says transparency. But it's that, plus, with all this, we accumulate twenty jobs. Twenty jobs meant... – and among them, also related to delegations abroad – means that for a long time we have been asking for information and repeatedly the government has denied it. And not only has the government repeatedly denied it, but they also have the obligation to give it to us because they have given us employment, even if they have had to give us employment, and therefore the government's obligation to donate the documentation, they have not given it. I insist: and to this, they say transparency. Do you think this is normal? But today, besides, I changed a little that I wanted to explain because I was saying and I was outraged, and I was really outraged. We have also just received a reply from the Government, which we have been asking for information from the Court of Auditors on external delegations and other documents, which is information that the Government has already donated to the Court of Auditors and the answer is that they can't give it to us because it's too much information; because it's too much information and they have other things to do and they can't give us the information. And they also say to us: "And there is information that neither can we give them because it is not computerized. Information that is found in the external delegations and is not computerized and therefore cannot be given to us. And I ask myself: is this information that they have already donated to the Court of Auditors; 21st century, we have a Generality Information Centre to which 400_million euros have been donated and I am told by the Government that external delegations have documents that are not computerised? [[Greetings.]] Doesn't that sound like a lot to you? Does that look like transparency to you? It's just incredible, really. I think the citizenry should know a lot more. And while they're at it, they say, "Spain is spying on us. No, like it's a good defense, it's a good attack, isn't it? While we're going to accuse ourselves here, we're going to do what we want. Home, this information has been donated to the Court of Auditors, is that they already have it. It's like when the director of the Diplomat was listening, when he said to the jutjats: "Yes; yes, we have all the detailed information of the visits and of the observers, well, of the international visits. And I thought, "But if we're working on this and they didn't want to give us the information. Is that transparency? Is this linked to the good democratic quality of a government? I don't think so – I don't think so. I don't think that this is a blow job for the MPs who don't have a right, that it's a phone right to be able to exercise our control function, that it's the right to access information. No, they're denying him the information, they're blocking the city of Catalonia, and that's very hard – that's very hard. Therefore, of external action that would be linked to transparency. They don't want to know what they're doing, and if they don't want to know what they're doing, it's because they're doing things that they can't do, because, if not, they wouldn't have to come here, give their faces, give information, and then subdue their parliament's control session but above all the opposition. They will, and they won't, and that means something's going on. [[Greetings.]] Look, what they're doing is not external action is external opacitation paid with millions of euros, which here hasn't even come to answer yet, that they've gone through the water of the process and we're not done. Marxin already summons elections. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.228.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet. To defend the papers presented has the word, in first place and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.229.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, well, Ciutadans presents a motion focused on the government's external action, on the use of external delegations, which we actually share in good part. We are firmly in favour of the Government's full exercise of the external action powers deriving from the very Statute of Catalonia's autonomy, as well as from the Law of Foreign Action, in order to legitimately defend and promote Catalonia's interests, but obviously also respecting the State's competence in foreign policy matters and also with institutional loyalty, in fact, that which it should govern in the relations between the State and the autonomous communities, in a composite state and which we would like to federally. And we also ask the Government to act with transparency, which is the requirement for citizenship based on the same law of transparency, access to public information and good governance, which means providing information and also facilitating the government's control function that must be able to carry out this chamber and also the accountability. And, therefore, in this sense, we cannot agree with the evil that has been done in the last years of many instruments of external action in Catalonia that have either gone beyond their limits or have ended up performing functions that have more to do with the defence of interests that are political, that are on the side and that are often opposed to the interests of the State, that are not in the self-defence of commercial, economic, cultural or of the own language of Catalonia, to give some examples. For example, so many of these instruments have been used to make public diplomacy, when foreign delegations cannot make political or contract public diplomacy services, they must be offices or representations with commercial, tourist, cultural, language promotion tasks, as I said, but never an instrument serving parties or a political cause that is not shared by the community of the citizenry. And I also need to act transparently, especially with respect to public procurement, because this Parliament has a right to know which services it has contracted to, to whom and what its cost has been to be able to make the precise control task of the Government, and that, therefore, has not passed. And in the same way, and as established by the Transparency Law, we are in favour of publishing the agenda of government delegates and delegates abroad, such as the same Members here in this Chamber, no more or less, and that delegations may submit an annual report on the activities that are being carried out, and, if appropriate, that the Government will appear to explain them. And, on the other hand, it is obvious, and so I foresee the Law of Action and External Services of the State, that the autonomous communities must inform the Government of the establishment of the offices for the external promotion, of their willingness to open delegations. And that's kind of foresight to its overture. And the ministry has to issue preceptual reports. So it is not necessary to make a policy of consummated facts, but to communicate the will to the ministry, which at the same time has the obligation to make this report in order to guarantee the unity of foreign policy. Complying with these requirements is neither a subtly nor a humiliation, but it is the same as other European states or regions that have many foreign offices or delegations to foreign countries. And, on the other hand, we can't agree with point 8, which would restrict the possibility of occupying other offices or trust offices or the same department to imputed persons, because we know that here, therefore, there is an obvious political intention, but we also understand that the presumption of innocence would not be respected, and that is why we would vote against it. However, on the other hand, we would vote in favour of the reproof of the Government's latest external action advisors, precisely because they were not at the height of their responsibility, which is also transparency, to have repeatedly failed to fulfil their obligation to report on the public contract carried out by different delegations or other external action instruments that have been subject to control tasks. And, finally – I finish from where I started – I fully exercise the powers of External Action provided for by the same Statute, which are many, and legitimately defend the interests of the Catalan and Catalan joint, but not instrumentalize these representations, and above all do not subject Catalonia's external action to the defense of a party cause that has failed at the international level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.230.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.231.0	It's a little sad that not even the day you call yourself a ple on real Catalonia is still incapable of doing something more than processing me. They say in their speech: « It must be remembered that competence in international relations is exclusive to the State, that the powers of the autonomous communities are very limited and subordinate to the Government of Spain. The first question I wanted to ask him is: and, then, why flood the external commissions of this Parliament with motions in support of an illegal war in Venice or in favor of the apartheid of Israel? Why do they put forward motions to defend their party campaigns and are not limited to defending the External Action of the State and not presenting it. You are very liberal, but very liberal to have the right to change your mind and to say the same and the opposite always and everywhere. You are not concerned that the foreign action of this country is not subordinate to the Government of the State, you are concerned that it is not subordinate to its electoral campaigns. But this one will allow me to tell him that it is his problem and not ours. They say: "We are against the government doing external action. And the truth is that I haven't tried very hard to find news that "the pact between Albert Rivera and Susana Díaz includes forty embassies for the Junta de Andalucia. And I have been looking at the Andalusian External Promotion Agency, and they are a total, this 2018, of 23_million euros destined for external promotion. And I'd like to know where your group puts the limit: 23_million seem few? I'd like to know where you put the limit: 26, 26 and Mig, 27 is already an excess and a thief? I'd like to know if you have an exact cipher. But for you, foreign promotion and international politics are above all three things. The first, to be the shame of liberalism throughout Europe. They only have a government, that of Andalusia. And the truth is that the external promotion you have made is not very positive – it does not take up the phone or the president of France – and, yes, a great job, they have managed to put the name of Andalusia all over Europe, as much as it is to shame us to have opened the door to governance, in this country, to the extreme right. It is complicated to make external promotion of a government with the extreme right where the telephones and identifications of people working against male violence are asked, where are the identifications of irregular immigrants who go to public health to facilitate them to the police, where are the identifications of those who deliver workshops on sexual and emotional freedom to the schools. And it's funny, because in this liberalism of being able to say the same and the contrary in this Parliament and in Andalusia, they complain here, on Twitter and for all the commissions that there is a platform that you study about the uses of language, that I think we could talk about it, and then they have no problem giving them the identifications of who does workshops for sexual and reproductive freedom to the schools of the community of Madrid or Andalusia. And I think this is a hypocrisy show we can't get into either. The second is to block its foreign policy, to block cooperation and to defend war and those who promote it in this country. The foreign action policy of his presidential candidate, Mr. Rivera, the first time that was presented as presidential candidate, was to defend armed intervention and bombing in Syria. Today, its foreign position in state policy is to defend the sale of weapons to dictatorships like Saudi Arabia. In this Parliament it is blocking the Pla Director of Cooperation of those working abroad for the better of public services and human rights of everyone. This is his position in external action in this Parliament. And the third position in external action in this Parliament is that, beyond what we are discussing, the important thing is to make a process every time. And, truth be told, now that we're talking about real Catalonia, I don't think there's a more real Catalonia than the one that's never going to vote for you again, the one that's never going to vote for you again for arsonists and for giving people the legitimacy that's not legitimately independent in this country to the extreme right. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.232.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.233.0	Thank you, President. Well, we in our position on this young man don't debate with Ciutadans, we honestly don't have the smallest conceptual territory shared as for so much debate and discussion. We are addressing the Government directly to say that we are effectively defending a Catalan foreign policy with capitals, a Catalan international policy, which is sovereign and active, which is critical with the European Union, with the democratic and social deficits of the European Union, which is set to strengthen its presence and participation in the United Nations system, decisively and firmly, and which has the following focus of attention and priority. For a song, he cooperated with her. Solidarity, from our point of view, is the best public diplomacy our country can have. Security and asylum policy; active participation in peace and demilitarization processes; defence of the collective rights of the people and of the sovereignty of the people at large; international and global compromises in the fight against the climate crisis; defence of human, civil and political rights at large as a priority and guide of our foreign and international policy; and, indeed, as it cannot be in any other way, active international projection of the right to self-determination, of denunciation of repression and of the demand for a democratic resolution of our political conflict, which will necessarily have to be of international and multilateral dimension. This is the foreign policy to which we will give support and with which we can share responsibility. Obviously, from this position, we will vote no to the motion of Ciutadans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.234.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr. Daniel Serrano has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.235.0	Thank you, President. We understand very positively the motion put forward by Citizens and, in that sense, we would like to make clear some things and some extremes, because, Mr Bosch, someone has to tell you the truth and it is that the Generalitat of Catalonia does not make foreign policy or have embassies; therefore, following the socratic logic, you are not a minister of anything and I believe it is important that someone tells you the truth, because, but we run the risk of self-deception. The foreign action, which is not foreign policy, the foreign action of the Generalitat has to be confined to its competences, to do it with loyalty and transparency, and this also interferes with you, because I have tried to search your agenda on the web of the council and I have not yet found it. Then, if you can tell me where I can locate her. But it is not even the agenda of the Foreign and Transparency Advisor is possible to locate the one on the official website of the department. If, therefore, it should be an obligation to know the public agenda of the adviser, then, of course, of the delegates abroad, also, as senior officials of the Generalitat that they are. And, without it being a metaphor and a comparison, but if the ambassadors of the Kingdom of Spain abroad have an obligation to appear before the Courts at the request of any parliamentary group, how the delegates of the Generalitat will not appear abroad, it is that they have a healthy duty to appear to be accountable to this Parliament and explain to us what they are doing, because, but we can think that a hidden agenda has something to hide and, as I suppose, it is not the issue, because obviously they have to appear, of their own accord, at least once a year, to be accountable to the opposition, at least, for what they are doing abroad. Therefore, we will support the Citizens' motion, except for the fifth point, because we believe that the Generalitat has resources abroad, such as the Catalan Tourism Agency or the Ramon Llull Institute, to have the need to open more departments abroad. We believe that the delegations abroad are the exception, not the general policy, and therefore we believe that the Generalitat of Catalonia has sufficient structure abroad to be able to take advantage of it without having to open each two by three a delegation to make unfair politics, which is what you do abroad, unfair politics and, by the way, very little transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.236.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Congressman Ferran Civic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.237.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, that one day they will be ministers, I have no doubt, and counsel, that one day they will be minister; deputy, that I do not see her, content to retreat, that it took time that we do not debate. You found the Bosch advisor missing at the beginning, so you know who I'm missing? It's Councilman Romeva and all the legitimate government that should be here. [[Greetings.]] He's asking me to grab paper and pen so I don't feel bad that we're doing transparency now and we're going to tell him everything the delegates and delegates we have on the outside have done. Miri, Marie Kapretz, Berlin. Set of the morning, it's taken, it's dutxa, it wipes off with Cola Cao – point, which is important – eight of them enter the office, up there in public transport or with bicycle. At 12 o'clock, have a meal combined with a manicure, this is also important because it is very healthy. 12.30, reinstated to work. At 18 o'clock, out of work. 18.30 hours, when I get out of work – that sometimes it can be this hour or later, because, logically, they have a lot of work – I think it's important to notice this. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 7:30, up at home. At 8:30, dinner. At 21.00 hours, Netflix and manta – but now, as it is warm, logically, without manta – and at 11 hours, we sleep. Delegate Marcén, in London, therefore, more or less the same, but at seven o'clock in the morning, what he does is to eat to grind, so, a cup of coffee with muffins, which is the difference he has with Delegate Kapretz. Instead of riding a bike, so up a subway. In the hour of dinar, therefore, what it does is enjoy British cuisine based on potatoes – that we know that British cuisine is very good, in this sense. [[Rialles.]] Then, when he comes out, he stays with some friends and goes to a pub and he takes a pint – which I assume he will know that the dimensions of a pint, roughly, are five hundred and a thousand liters–, and, at night, in this case, then, also up to do the same, Netflix and blanket. And, of course, if you want more information, I think they already have it, but if they want more, they can ask Minister Borrell, because he has all the information, all of it, because, for that reason, they have followed them and they have spyed on them, because to be Mr. CFSP, at European level, before, in Spain, you have to be Mr. Research, and I think that all this has done quite well. They ask us... to stop lying to public opinion by calling it espionage. Citing a classic of the parliamentarianism of this house and, logically, also in the paternal language: "This in my people is espionage. It's so clear. I don't know if Spain steals from us, do I? As they accused, yesterday, of the Vice President of the Generality, but Spain does spy on us and this is a fact. And, of course, they'll want to know what the delegates are doing, but I also suppose they'll want to know what the deputies have done, because some deputies from this chamber have also been spying. And I already warn you that today, the Major Festival of my people begins, to which all are invited, and tomorrow, if you want to come on the evening, there is a concert by Judit Neddermann with the TLP orchestra, so, Congresswoman, you are invited all your parliamentary group and, if necessary, I invite you to dinner and a few drinks, then, with all the people of my people. Point: Festival Major de l'Espuga de Francolí. [[Rialles.]] And, of course, what's funny is that with so many entrances they've made to the different departments of the Generality – the Police – because not once, but once, but once, there was nothing. The generality intervened with 155 and nothing was found. One of two, or there was nothing to store or the Spanish State is incompetent. I don't know who to answer that. [[Rialles.]] But, of course, we're interested in the good transparency that we need, what is it? The one they vetoed on 155. We're asking for a commission of inquiry to find out what happened to April 17th's storms and CNI relations, and they're leaving us. That is what we are very concerned about – very much – because there have been deaths here and there have been poorly used reserves. They ask us to align... "in defense of the interests and values of Spain abroad. What's this? Avoid the arrival of refugees at the cost of the Peninsula, as claimed this morning? Is defending the commercial arms interests of the Spanish State coming weapons to Saudi Arabia? [[Widow's remorse.]] I don't know. They want the Romeva, Maragall and Bosch councillors to fail. Counselor Bosch has appeared, said he will appear and I have no doubt that he will do it here and will do it to the committee – and he knows it, and he knows it will. Now, what I find a little brutal is the fact that I demand the reprobation of Councillor Romeva. I'm saying that because what they could do is a self-editing theme, where it's reproving and arresting, because it's two years old. And, if they want to, they can go to mileage 37 C-55, Sant Joan de la Vilatorrada, and there they can fail him after two years. By the end of the day, the time was running out, before the company Ferro also mentioned the case of Andalusia. Clearly, when it comes to "siringuitos y tutto plegat", I am very grateful that, curiously, I do not consider "siringuito" the fact that a person who before was the delegate of the Government of Spain here in Catalonia, therefore, went from Girona to Seville, from "siringuito a" siringuito and, now, curiously, is responsible for the External Relations of Andalusia. So, very curious all folded. We demand reciprocity of transparency. There is no doubt that, in the same way that they veto us to the Committee on the Secrets of Congress, there is no doubt that, some day, we will be, we will have embassies and there is no doubt that I feel like they are, but I am spying on what they can, that outsiders and the General will continue to do their work. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.238.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mrs Aurora Madaula's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.239.0	Okay. Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. I'll start my intervention with a date – don't freak out, huh? « Catalunya is one of the most fertile countries on earth and fortunately situated. Catalonia, in short, can dispense with the universe and its veins cannot dispense with it. That's what Voltaire said, 1751. It doesn't have to come to that, today, however, especially because, in an interconnected world, everyone needs everyone and no one can spare anyone. This introduction is needed to state that Catalan delegations abroad are useful, necessary and essential for the external projection of Catalonia. They are nothing other than the natural evolution of those medieval sea consoles that already regulated the activities of merchants and navigators, which are moving within and outside the territorial waters, of the waters of the Crown of Aragó. For this reason, the Catalan delegations abroad have offices of the world that work with the objective of facilitating the work, in various fields, for Catalonia, you already know, but the record that there is Action, the Office of Action, that works to facilitate the work and promote business activity; we have the Ramon Llull Institute, that promotes culture; the Catalan Agency of Development Cooperation; the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises, and many etcetera, a large etcetera. As you will understand, the Catalan delegations abroad are not dedicated to attacking Spain or its institutions, as you say in point 1 of your motion. It's just that they don't do it, they don't do it, they don't do it, they don't do it, they don't do it, they don't do it, they do it, they don't do it, they don't do it, they don't do it. Spain, for example, is the state of the European Union with more to fail to comply with European standards – for example. But it seems that, for Spain, the issue of money and these proportions do not understand it as well as we do, so, when we ask in point 3 that we remain transparent, the memory that we are already transparent. And now, as they were already talking about the agenda, that they don't find the agenda, I've made a short search, here they have the agenda of the Foreign Counsellor, with more than a thousand entries, a thousand results, we have the agenda of today, for example, the agenda of today, yes, on July 25, 2019, at 15 hours, meeting of Vice President to talk about our instruments of cooperation. They have it on the Internet. They're transparent. They're transparent. It is all published on the Transparency Portal of the Government of Catalonia, you can consult the data, the contracts, the agreements, the annual reports, the agendas, as required in your points of motion 7 and 9. Much more transparent than the Government of Spain, for example, that with the Spanish embassies, which are opaque..., that the ministry's portal only publishes a portion of the ambassadors' son; we will never know what the Spanish ambassadors are covering and, since more than a year ago, this information is not even up to date, despite the fact that it is required. Certainly, the Transparency Portal of the Government of Andalusia, where you govern together with the ultra-right and the People's Party, the data are not updated since 2017. Maybe they're doing their job, huh? [[Greetings.]] No, deputies and deputies of Ciutadans, Catalan delegations abroad do not attempt to harm Spain or its values abroad, are dedicated to working for Catalonia. Do you know what harms Catalonia and Spain abroad? That there are political prisoners and exiles in Spain, that there are more than a thousand reprisals, that they beat us to the necks of an electoral college and that there are images that turn the world around, although they try to prevent it. This is what harms Spain's external image. (Applause.) It harms Spain and Catalonia to have a Foreign Minister who denies Spanish colonialism and who claims that the United States of America only killed four Indians. Nationalism in pure state and ignorance. Historians estimate that the colonial massacre was between 5 and 10 million indis. A minister, this one, who claims that he was trying to disinfect Catalonia from independence, and that, despite being involved in corruption issues, he chooses to represent the European Union abroad. That does hurt Spain. What harms Spain and Europe is that the Spanish embassy in Vienna, for example, organizes a meeting with the Vox MEP where the indigenous genocide is denied. Or that the Spanish embassies personally boycott presentations of books, cultural presentations in catalá, coercionin universities to cancel academic conferences or that the Spanish State continuously and illegally spy on people from delegations, Catalan MPs, European MPs or citizens of the free! This, of course, seriously harms the image of the Spanish State and places it on the side of authoritarian states that offer pluralism and restrict freedom, lords of Ciutadans. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] Let's be clear: with your young man they don't have to be implying that an independentist government democratically elected can't choose to do foreign policy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.240.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.241.0	...to help businesses, citizens? - I'm done now. Let me know, being an independentist, at the moment, is not illegal in Spain. You don't have to think that we're going to stop ruling just because we're being chased, and we're going to get caught. We'll continue to rule and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.242.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.243.0	...doing outside action. And also, of course, we'll continue to explain what's going on in Catalonia, because this is real Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.244.0	To pronounce on the papers has the word, again, the deputy... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.245.0	Thank you. Ms Madaula, "external delegations do not attack Spain. President Torra's tweet: "In Brussels, with all the government delegates, I asked them to explain the repression, the repression of Spain. Isn't that attacking Spain? [[Widow's remorse.]] And to real Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.246.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.247.0	...real Catalonia is the lack of transparency in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] Twenty elections, ladies and gentlemen, twenty elections! Twenty jobs. And the Member of Esquerra, the Deputy Citizen..., in particular, because the Councillor Romeva knew personally, and when there was time for dialogue – when there was time for dialogue – he gave it to Romeva, and the videos are public: "What you are doing is serious. You're doing things with total opacity. You didn't come here to account, and it's serious. And look where it is! - And look where it is! [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] And Councilman Bosch, who we are...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.248.0	Quiet! - Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.249.0	...that we're failing him the same way, he's still on the same path: opacity.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.250.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.251.0	If you don't have anything to store, if I'm wrong, deputies, report; the government gives the information and reports to Parliament. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] And the malpractice of public money in the process, you think that this, MP... – now I don't see it –, MP of Catalonia in Comú Can, isn't Catalonia real? Shouldn't these money go to meet the real needs of Catalans? Transparency – transparency. Andalusia must have transparency, just as it should have here. And that's what we're asking for. Thank you. [[Greetings. Ferran Civit and Martí ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.252.0	Why ask me the word, Congressman? [[Pause.]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.253.0	Member, you know I have a lot of personal respect and appreciation for you, because we've discussed it many times, but as I also know you're a very good person, and more so than you had a good relationship with Mr. Romeva, I'm sure you have to understand that it's a very rare thing that a person wears two years of prison only for lack of transparency. [[Greetings. Susana Beltrán García asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.254.0	Thirty seconds, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.255.0	Yeah. Deputy Civic, when the proceedings go into... they're judicial proceedings, we can no longer act as deputies or politicians. When there was time, I told the Romeva Councillor, in public and in private: "Watch out, because what you're doing is serious, and it didn't happen to me. I'm in duel. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm in a lot of trouble. In duel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.256.0	Quiet! [[Greetings.]] Mrs. Madaula, why do I ask...? [[Pause.]] Say – thirty_seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.257.0	Yeah. Mrs Beltrán, the Romeva Councillor and his political prisoners, who are in prison, are not in prison for having accumulated data or for lack of transparency. Please, be strict. Thank you. [[Greetings. Eva Granados Galiano and Daniel Serrano Coronado ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.258.0	Mr. Serrano, Mrs. Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.259.0	Vote separate from point 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.260.0	Over. All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.261.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.262.0	Lord Serrano...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.263.0	Thank you, President. Separate vote on point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.264.0	Five? All right. Any more separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Let's get to the vote, then. Let's vote first on point 5. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 52 votes to 76, with 4 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. Point 8_has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 92 against and no abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 75 against and no abstentions. [[General debate on proposals for real Catalonia (continuation)]] [[255-00007/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the general debate on proposals for real Catalonia. We shall then proceed to the presentation of the motions for resolutions following the general debate on the proposals for real Catalonia. After the debate, we shall vote on these motions for resolutions. Each parliamentary group will have two minutes, and five for the subgroup, to defend its motions for resolutions. It has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Sonia Sierra. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.265.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, deputies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.266.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.267.0	... MPs, advisors... It's obvious that Catalonia has many years of losing opportunities, in concrete terms since 2012, which started the process. We wear almost a decade without a government that governs for all Catalans. The process has not achieved absolutely anything that he promised, and in this sense it has been a process to the non-res. But the hard part isn't that he didn't get absolutely the king they promised the people that in good faith he believed it; the hard part is that Catalonia is now worse than it was years ago. That's why we from Ciutadans have called for the celebration of this specific plenary to talk about the proposals we think Catalonia needs, because, towards a government that does not govern, we do have proposals to govern for all Catalans. In an interview, Maria Jiménez said a phrase that I liked very much: "I have no problems, I have solutions. Well, that is what we bring to this plenary today: solutions. And a clear example of how good government favors citizens' lives are Andalusian budgets. Andalusian budgets are good budgets, which lower taxes and invest more and better in health, education and social services. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] And also very important: they are budgets that serve to create employment, to fight for equality and to fight against...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.268.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.269.0	...to fight corruption. And the truth is that it would be fundamental in Catalonia, if they ever managed to present the budgets when it touches, because Catalonia has sadly been the homeland of 3_per_cent and the rest of Convergence's corruptions. The first thing we need for Catalonia to start solving its problems is for its rulers to commit not to jump over the laws. This, which would have to be the case, because the truth is that it is quite difficult as long as the separatists govern, because today they are claiming that we are voting on a motion for a resolution in which they intend to continue with their coup d'état. You say you will do it again, and the truth is that we believe you, because we are very clear that your only obsession, your only goal in this life is to break Spain. But you also have to make one thing very clear: that if you do it again, we will stop it again; but we with the thousands and thousands and thousands of Catalans who went out to the streets of Barcelona on October 8 to tell them that they will not break our hearts [[strong applause]] , that we will continue to be Catalans and Spanish. Of course, Citizens will not participate in such a vote, and of course what a shame and shame that in a plenary to talk about the solutions that Catalonia needs, the real Catalonia, all its great solution is to insist on the coup d'état. They have been portrayed; that's all they care about, to continue with their coup d'état. As I said before, Catalonia has been practically a decade without a government that governs, and the most obvious proof is the budgets: we have been ten years without starting an exercise with the approved budgets when it touches. Catalonia is the autonomous community with more own taxes and with the highest fiscal pressure for average and low incomes in all of Spain. And you keep raising taxes, because that's great for you. Not another thing, they don't give a stick to the water. Now, put your hand in the Catalan pocket, that's great. [[Widow's remorse.]] And don't put your hand in the pockets of Catalans so that that money goes to health, education, social services... No, no, put your hand in the pockets of Catalans, so, to continue with the process, with their chiringuitos, with their separatist propaganda... That is why we propose... – if you have to shut up and listen, which would be a detail on your part – we propose. in economic matters, reduce the autonomous IRPF, abolish the inheritance tax and establish tax incentives for R & D+I projects. We also propose to reduce the administrative burdens on companies and to reduce economic activity, especially when the activity begins. In addition to that, we propose to end corruption, which has been encamping in its width for Catalonia and fattening the arks of Convergence – and of someone from Esquerra Republicana as well, who then always presume that they do not have corruption. We want a zero-tolerance commitment to corruption, including the immediate cessation of any member of the Government or senior office investigated for corruption. And, of course, we are proposing to put an end to the outbursts, because it cannot be that politicians have privileges over the rest of the citizens in the 21st century. And, look, so to end corruption, nothing better than starting by closing nationalist bars, for example. Look, we're proposing something as revolutionary as the money you're devoting to your chiringuitos, we're dedicating it to education. We propose a plan to end the barracks, to have free day care – those to which you dedicate zero_euros – and the necessary resources to meet students with special educational needs. On the other hand, following the analysis of the linguistic projects at the centre that we did, it is shown that Spanish is discriminated against in the Catalan school. We have an obsolete system, with only one vehicle language, which also prevents equal opportunities. And for the most part Catalonia is lagging far behind in the teaching of English, with respect to the rest of the autonomous communities. That is why we propose that Catalan, Spanish and English be vehicular languages. It cannot be that in the 21st century they continue to claim a model of the early 1980s! The Catalan school has to face the challenges of the present and the future, not to remain anchored in the present of the eighties, as the nationalists claim. And another very worrying aspect with regard to education is the safety of pupils in Catalan schools. In a matter of weeks, a girl has allegedly been assaulted at the hands of her teacher, she is already investigating justice, because the Generalitat gave rapid folder, and seven hundred students have been spied on in the courtyards of the schools. Look, Mr. Counselor, a private entity can't go into schools to spy on what the children are talking about. And you say: "No, no, that is not spying, that it turns out that it was observation of incognito, that that is done in sociolinguistics. Look, no sociolinguist makes any incognito observations, you know why? Because it goes against any ethical and ethical code. [[Greetings.]] That's why no sociolinguist has signed the infamous Platform for Language pamphlet, because no sociolinguist is going to question his name with that pamphlet that has been dedicated to spying on students and teachers. You have to resign, Mr. Counsellor, and that is what we are going to vote on this afternoon. Because it is clear that families cannot quietly leave their children in schools with Mr Bargalló as education advisor without knowing whether they are going to be spied on, as he has done in Catalonia, not in one, two, or three, in fifty schools he has spied on children. And what needs to be done is to remove the money from Platform for Language, which takes 1_million_euros of public money each year, 1_million public money to spy on students. And look, ladies and gentlemen of Platforma per la Llengua, we're going to tell you very clearly: take your dirty hands off the Catalan children, because we're not going to allow it. [[Greetings.]] With regard to vocational training, we propose a specific support plan for its development and also design a plan with the aim of increasing the presence of women in both vocational training and technical and scientific careers. And in the same vein we also propose a campaign to raise awareness and promote equality plans in companies. And now we are going to one of the problems that the Catalans are most concerned about, which is health. We have an underfunded system and waiting lists continue to grow. Emergency corridors are collapsing with people waiting for bed. Look, we, ever since we ruled Andalusia, know what we've done? Close the chiringuitos and open the operating room. That's what we'd like for Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] And also improve the waiting lists more, better and more transparently, that this costs zero_euros and would improve the lives of many Catalans. And it's not that we just have waiting lists in health care, it's that we also have waiting lists in dependency. Because you, so much talking about independence, have forgotten to talk about dependence, and we have the worst waiting lists in all of Spain. Citizens want Catalonia to be the best place to form a family, from the youngest to the oldest. "Families, in plural, that is why we have put forward proposals to ensure the sexual and reproductive rights of the LGBTI collective. We also want to propose a plan to help families: therefore, to extend the paternity permits of officials, to establish a bonus equivalent to one hundred per cent of the autonomous quotas for the two years following their maternity or paternity and to put in place a plan for the self-employed to hire substitutes during that period. Unfortunately at the moment Catalonia is not a good place for families, among other things because we are leading the rankings of poverty, a problem that does not concern the Government at all, because Mr. Torra did not devote a second to talking about this subject. And a government that doesn't care about children is not a good government. Undoubtedly we all want to live in a safe environment, and yet in Catalonia the crime figures do not stop rising, especially in Barcelona, and in this sense are fundamental [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] The proposals we have put forward to improve safety.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.270.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.271.0	Yes; I hope I have all the extra time you've given Mrs. Madaula. We want to live not only in safe spaces, but also in spaces of freedom. And for that it is necessary for everyone to respect public space because it is a space of all and we all have to be able to feel good. To that end, institutions must maintain neutrality. And, of course, neutral and plural media, quite the opposite of TV3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.272.0	Congresswoman!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.273.0	Yeah, I'm just finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.274.0	Yeah, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.275.0	Yeah, finally, I'm done. We want Catalonia to be the best place to start, to form a family and to enjoy all the wonders offered by our land. We want to, in short...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.276.0	Congresswoman, time's up!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.277.0	Yeah. We want, in short, a Catalonia... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.278.0	On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Ms.Alícia Romero has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.279.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors, vice president, deputies and deputies. Today we finish the Monographic Plenary on Real Catalonia proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. It is possible and likely that, if we were to define together who the real Catalonia is, we would not agree. In fact, after listening to interventions from some groups yesterday, we can say that we would not agree to define who the real Catalonia is. It is also in our favor that it is true that the look at reality is always subjective, and, therefore, it can be seen from many different points of view; it is polyhedral, plural, diverse, contradictory as well. And, therefore, it is true that it would be difficult to have a single vision. But it is also true that the responsibility of a public representative is to try to be objective, to try to recognize the other realities, to accept them, to respect them, and, from a shared diagnosis, to be able to put the solutions or the answers appropriate to the problems. This is our responsibility. And the truth is that, listening, as I said, the one we were listening to yesterday, it's hard to see that they're bosses, some groups and some others, so, to be able to make this visit, this diagnosis of a little unity. We are concerned about what is not shared, but that we are not in a position to accept them and to be able to do so, so work to give these answers. We should be able to put all our efforts into that which unites us and not that which separates us. And constantly here – we have seen it now with the Parliamentary Group of Citizens – we do not stop listening to everything that separates us, when we sincerely believe that there is much more than one of us. And in fact, that's why we're voting for the citizens, because we rule, because we legislate, to improve the lives of the citizens. There is someone who when he pulls up here he seems to be oblivious, so he wants to perpetuate himself in the conflict, in the problem, in continuing to feel part of the problem. And we think we should start all – all – already being part of the solution if we really want this country to change; I changed some of the things that aren't good and that don't please us. And do it with respect. Because, Mrs. Sierra, I am absolutely offended when you talk about getting your hands on the citizens' butxaca, "Syringuitos, get your dirty hands off Catalan children. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's what I'm worried about. No, no, that's not fa, you can't talk like that. [[Greetings.]] A little respect for the institution – a little respect for the institution – indeed. A little respect for Catalonia, the institution and politics. Miri, I don't care. You already see that you don't want to have respect. So not the tinguin. That's what I'm worried about. Because, in your own accounts, you say in any case that you want to remove delegations from the outside. Okay, say that, it's respectable. We don't want to eliminate them, we want to keep them. And, in any case, that they have or do the functions for which the State has established them. But I'm not talking to this whole thing, really. It's offensive to the country and institutions. [[Greetings.]] And I think we should all respect them, as I sometimes tell the government that I respect them, that they often also, sometimes, don't forget. Miri, the real Catalonia, as I say, is polyhedral, but I'd like to give some examples. Miri, the real Catalonia, told my group president yesterday, it's HP, Facebook, Grifols, but it's also the difficulties that Nissan is experiencing; it's an agri-food sector that accounts for 3.6_percent of GDP, but it's also that we have fewer branches and fewer pages, and less income. He also means that we are excellent at research, it is true, but that we have precariousness in the world of investigation, in our researchers. It's true that we intervened at 5G distance, we've been pointing at this, but it's also true that we have the highest hope lists in the whole state – in fact, we've increased last year by a thousand people in these hope lists. It's true that you're setting up a call for the PUOS, and it's fine, but it's also true that we're poorly funded for what it does to schools in Bressol, schools of music or municipal dance. It is true that there is a language platform that defends some things, but it is also true that there is an association of schooling for bilingualism. It is true that we do a good management of foster families, but it is true that we do a bad management of the Law of Dependence. It's true that half of Catalonia wants to be independent, and it's true that there's half of Catalonia that doesn't want to be. I do not want to recognize these two realities, which is the same reality from another point of view, from the other side, from the other side of the coin, it seems to me that it is very little honesty on the part of politicians who have to come here to read the reality and solve the problems. If we stick to our reality, it will be impossible for us to be part of the solution. [[Greetings.]] And I believe, and I sincerely believe, that we sincerely believe from my group, that the groups that we are here should decide whether we want to be part of the problem, or continue to feel part of the problem, or part of the solution. And I tell them above all to the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, who is here today to set us up a plethora of real Catalonia. You might have recognized some good things that Catalonia does, that Catalonia has, that the government does, because it also has to do. And, therefore, I think this – this – would make us all move forward. Because I think we want to move forward, don't we? I suppose you want to move forward. We want to improve the quality of life of the citizens. What's wrong? Do you want to go after him? It's that sometimes a doubt of whether you want one thing or the other. And above all we plant solutions that are also realistic, solutions that can be put in the way. Because, of course, Mrs. Sierra, say: "Meny taxes– less taxes– and more reversal, and more social spending, and more spending on salvation, and more spending on education, and more infrastructure... And how will they pay for it? It's just that the accounts don't come out. And if you were a government party, which I have a lot of doubts that it is, you would have to make proposals that can be put into practice. Look, we're proposing a tax reform to get more tickets. Because if you ask for more resources, more social investment, you have to ask for more tickets too. It's that, if not, the accounts don't fit – now that I have Mr. Aragonès here. Is that what we do, from responsibility? Whenever we plant more social spending or more social investment, we are also asking for more tickets. That's why we ask Mr. Aragones for a more just and progressive tax reform that allows us to have more tickets. It's just that you have to be responsible. And you often don't. And, therefore, I also suggest, if I may, that they make this effort. Look, our solutions, because we do want to be part of the solution, maybe someone will tell us that we are pragmatic... but, look, we think of this country and we want it more just and better, and therefore be pragmatic whenever we want to try to improve. It is true that they carry two years with extended assumptions. And we also believe that we cannot afford another year with extended assumptions. Not for the government, for the citizens, for the country. And that weighs more on us; maybe because we're a government party, because we've ruled a lot of places and because we also know that when a flight and when a pose to the one that joins us on the table we're able to weave complicitys and agree with a lot of people. And we've seen it in the last few weeks: we've been able to weave deals with a lot of parties in this room. And I think that's a good thing; it's a good thing to agree with us. I don't know how long it's been in politics that you don't agree. It's positive whenever it's for the benefit of the citizens. And that's why we do it; at least, obviously, the group I represent. And, therefore, we will continue with this. If some of the agreements that we have made in the municipal, local area, we can translate them here, so welcome to continue. Actually, I'm also telling you one thing: let's approve of a lot of things, huh? , here by unanimity or with a very high percentage, because, in the end, we cut out a lot of clothes, but here we approve many things together, too. So, listen, why don't we put them black on white and try to move forward, try to move forward? That's what we'd like. And, therefore, we are presenting proposals for resolutions that seek to build consensus, to weave majorities. Look, I've told you many times about the president of my group: if to change, to change the Statute is necessary for ninety Members, how can we ask for seventy Members to do more ambitious things? We always try to look for the ninety Members; not for nothing, but because they will represent more Catalans and Catalans, it will be more plural, sure, that solution, more different, more respectful with what they think and feel the Catalans. And, therefore, we went to this type of agreement. We believe that these agreements, these national pacts of majorities in which everyone gives in. Because obviously waking up, pacting also means giving in; that's it, negotiating. If one thinks he's going to be in a table and get out of there as he got in, then he's probably wrong. And so we're already counting on this. But it seems to us that he is the one who touches him and asks this country. And we ask, in the resolutions, first... we have a group of resolutions that ask for dialogue, respect, negotiation and agreements. We think it's important that we talk, but we respect each other. And, really, in this chamber of times, respect costs to see. A few presuppositions for 2020 – important –; I think we can't give up on what we're here and I think we need to try to look for these majorities. We ask for a tax reform because we do want more tickets – numbers, if not, do not quadrate – but we also want an economic development based on knowledge, research and innovation. We don't want attractions to come, we don't want to attract investments just for low labor costs. We want to have a strong and structured economy. We also want concrete short and medium-term measures to address waiting lists. We want to let go of the language as an instrumental element at school; let the teachers work, let the teachers work. We want our infants to feel the català, feel the castle, speak the català and speak the castle. We put the competitions at the bottom of these children and young people, but we don't make this a political battle. We estimate the two languages. Let's reduce the waiting lists to the dependency. With better management we will be able to reduce them; so let's do it – let's do it. They see that our motions for resolutions are not maximum; we have gone to sort out some of the issues that seem very relevant to us. We can't solve everything; we don't live in a magical world, like Citizens. But we believe that there are some priorities that should be addressed, such as climate change or what we have also talked about in this House and in the past, about territorial cohesion and the opportunities we give the citizen. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] Miri – I'm done, President; I won't ask you for the time that Congresswoman Sierra has spent, but I'm done, a sentence –, look, our vision, it's true, it's polyhedral, it's different and it's critical. There are things that do well there are things that do not do well, there are things that go and things that do not so much. But let us honestly recognize each other, the two visions, which are complementary, and decide above all whether we want to be part of the problem or part of the solution.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.280.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.281.0	It's important they do. They'll find us here to be part of the solution and keep getting better...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.282.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.283.0	...this country, which is true that carries many deficiencies... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.284.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is now the return of Mrs Susanna Segovia. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.285.0	Thank you very much. Well, let's find ourselves again, thank you to Mr. and Mr. Ciutadans, with a debate on a construction of his own, sloppy and provocative, which they consider to be the real Catalonia. For us, real Catalonia – it has already been said – probably does not coincide with real Catalonia that they are trying to appropriate. We believe that real Catalonia is experiencing a moment of democratic exceptionality, with the judicialization of politics, and where civil and political rights of citizens are being violated. This is for us, too, the real Catalonia. It is also real Catalonia that of vulnerable families, that of migrant people, that of people seeking refuge, those to whom you probably do not give much attention. It is also the real Catalonia that of the non-independence families, and also those who voted on October 1. Also that of those people who today have laid down their bodies to put up with a denunciation before the action of the Mossos in Premià de Mar, the village of Councillor Buch, who does not accompany us today. These are also the people of real Catalonia. You are inventing a real Catalonia of your own, made up of its interests; a Catalonia that later, beyond this Parliament, completely ignores, when you are in Madrid: there you attack self-government, you attack linguistic immersion, political fans who favor high returns, you support concert models to education and you invite you to govern the extreme right there where you have the opportunity and need them. But not in Catalonia, in real Catalonia, where we live and where we believe the time for confrontation has run out and the time for solutions has arrived, we agree with this, which must be seen who is at the side of the solution and who is not. And to be at the side of the dialog solution, empathy. And that's why Ciutadans' bluff, so it's already over, we're seeing it: there's been some municipal elections and, if you want, you can count on the words of one hand how many mayors have Ciutadans in Catalonia. Oh, no, shut up, what a cap, wait... We understand that you have not been able to hear and do not want to go through this phase because you were born to confront, because you live from the chasm; we have told you many times, about the electoral machinery. But here there is a vast majority, Catalans and Catalans to the real Catalonia, the independenceists and non-independenceists, who want dialect, who want solutions, who reject repression and who refuse to use a 155 as a permanent threat. We believe that it is now time for accountability and de-judicialization of the conflict, to work to generate political and legal conditions that lead, yes, to the freedom of prisoners and political pressures and to the return of people who are outside Catalonia not by their own will. We believe, and we will reaffirm, that it is a shame that they are in prison and that they cannot be here to debate with all the deputies who are the political solution that real Catalonia needs. This is why we insist once and for all on this pact of clarity, to which we place all the forces that want to be part of the solution. We believe that this agreement of the pact of clarity and then we can work because Catalonia can decide in an agreed manner, with guarantees and with international recognition what its future policy is part of the solution. When the vote is taken, we will see who agrees with this solution. But it is also true that it is Catalonia that has a government that does not govern, that has a government that defends civil rights, that works against repression, but that does not do enough to combat social inequalities, to defend public services, to fight against climate emergency and to put the lives of people and feminist policies at the centre of its action. We have a government that is divided; in fact there are two governments..., well, sometimes three, if we add Mr. Torra to it, to another band, or four, if we count Mr. Puigdemont, who also doesn't always seem to be the same government. We have government crisis almost every week. An incompetent government, which in one year has only approved a legislative initiative that comes from the government, only one, and which was more of an agency of salvation than the same lord But it has carried, or so it has actually recovered something that the same government that now also governs has carried. A paralyzed government, which has 91,000 people on waiting lists and that we are still waiting for the decree, that they assured us that it would be in operation in the summer, to give out to these waiting lists; we are still waiting for it. And while that happens, so on the street things happen. On the street, the effects of retail and less public service policies were consolidated and made chronic. We also don't have mechanisms for public regulation, for public regulation, which really prevents people from pushing the press, not saying they do, but they don't do it later. His inability is that there is no political proposal before the great challenges that Catalonia has: the climate crisis, social inequalities and overcoming this patriarchal society. When they don't do it either looking at this, they do it looking to open the door to generalize the private management of public services, as does the Aragonese law. They do it with the C-32 project, which is a law, it's a project that clearly tempts against climate change. Impulse a decree of housing law that is useless, that is counterproductive to limit prices. Or push the Hard Rock Cafe project. Renewable energies no, casinos yes: this is their model. We're at an alarming level of social inequality. All the recommendations made by this Parliament to deal with the social emergency, to deal with the needs of the guaranteed income of citizens, are repeatedly incomplete. In the proposals submitted to us by the governing groups, they must be in agreement with all, but most of them refer to the responsibilities of the State with the real Catalonia. That's fine, we agree. But what about the responsibilities of the Government of the Government of Catalonia with real Catalonia? We do not find these at all, on their proposals. They also say yes, that we will have assumptions of 2020. We're ready, we've already told them... we've already been in 2019, we've already told them what we think fit for some assumptions. Now shall we stand ready, as we were then; but what are the presuppositions? Are there any assumptions that will definitely make a turn? What would they bet to fight inequality? What will they bet to take the climate emergency to the truth and make a transition that brings us there? What do they really bet on feminist policies? Is that it? If that's the case, they'll find us, we'll agree, we'll share projects, we'll share assumptions and we'll share country proposals; but we want them to stay that way. Keep up and make assumptions that actually reverse retailing and move forward here. We believe that a feminist, diverse and inclusive country is built above all from public listening from the zero-three stage, fighting against segregation, where every child can express freely; but also a public school that is not used as a weapon of attack between political groups. And you said today that you're taking your hands to public school. We've already told you a lot of times: you pass the hands of the public school and leave our public school in pau [[applause]] I stop using it for your political interests. Look, do you know that there was in common between the plethora that there was this morning in the Congress of Deputies and here? That both referred to the fact of the Terrassa girl and the fact of the Language Platform study. Today, Ciutadans; this morning, Vox to the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies. Do you see that they have many things in common? – many things in common. [[Greetings.]] We want a country that is ready for an agile and accessible public greeting. We want a country that does not allow the commercialization of public services, that preserves public ownership and management, that also posts for co-management with entities of the third sector and of the social and solidary economy. We want a country the government of which you work for the remunicipalization of water clearly, which you put there politically, to boost it. We want a country that defends people over market interests in housing policies, that regulating the prices of loggers is done according to income, and not according to market prices. We want a country that faces the climate-emergency betting in a brave way for public transport, which is a pioneer in energy transition and in which climate-emergency finds a firm response. And let's tell them: the firm answer is not just more technology and more solar plates; it's a product model change. So long as we don't really plant a product model change, and also consumption, we won't be able to cope with climate change. In short, the real Catalonia that we defend, that we live, is diverse, is plural; it has no title whatsoever, of this real Catalonia. It needs to defend civil and political rights. I'm riding a pact to clear up. We can give an answer to the country's reptes. And I would like to take advantage of the end to ask the Socialist Party... that so good the speech of Pedro Sánchez this morning have been like that of Mrs. Alicia Romero this late. We believe that there is a government in Spain that is also part of the solution, and I hope that we will place all the pleas for this to be true, because, if not, the ones that will arrive will be the main reason for the problem. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.286.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Congresswoman Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.287.0	Ladies and gentlemen, the city of Catalonia, which has been described to us today by Vice-President Aragonès, with some economic growth data for over 2_percent of GDP, Catalonia is today a country every time more unequal. In our country only a 1_per_cent of the population concentrates 40_per_cent of all wealth, and 50_per_cent of the poorest with much labour captures 7_per_cent. Meanwhile, the risk rate of the poor continues to grow; 31.3_percent of the population is at risk of social exclusion, according to data from the Idescat, which has risen significantly since the year 2008. Second data from this same organism, very little suspected of being communist, more than half of Catalans manifests much or some difficulty in arriving at the end of the month. The women, the children, the great people and the people who migrated are, in a different way, who paid the most cruel and bitter face of this reality. Our ancestors know perfectly well what we're talking about. Today, in Sants, they named their house a woman of eighty-seven years; it was the house where she lived since 1955, which was sixty-four years old. That you don't see that this system, that a system that allows this is absolutely unfair and absurd? They fell on the face of shame to all who are in this chamber, but especially to those who have or have held direct responsibilities of government, both here and in the State. This is also the real Catalonia. If they want it, real Spain, real Spain and monarchy. Well, before this real Catalonia, or just to change it, there's another one. A Catalonia that joins and self-organizes, resists and fights injustice and inequalities. A Catalonia that is never resigned, the one that plants face every day and conquers rights, the Catalonia of '1 October, of 8 March and of many unforgivable days, that of the venous and union struggle, that of the activists, that of the feminist struggles, that of the brave people, the one that rises up and every day raises the voice of the punished and often oblivious territories, that when it exercises disobedience before unjust laws and resolutions, laws such as those that deny lives, children or sentient families from their homes, or those that allow so many to die in the Mediterranean Sea. This Catalonia, which is real as life itself, is not in the cotillas of a corrupt monarchy and a constitution that systemically uses as an excuse to not move or change anything, if it is not asked for the financial markets – remember in August 2011? Certainly, one constitution and one monarchy – they say the questions, one after the other – are rejected today by the vast majority of Catalans. If they want to prove it, we just have to put in the ballot boxes and listen to what the people say. But this Catalonia doesn't get used to being escorted into chambers like this, more quickly it's less likely, when it's not punished directly; it's that Catalonia that gets used to criminalizing and persecuting, and more in our time, where we go back to authoritarianism and repression. We have denounced the threat and unjustified limitation of the right to the protest that it has represented and that represents the law bite. And the responsibility lies with some parties, also represented in this chamber, both of whom approved it and those who committed themselves to repealing it and did not fail to keep the majority needed since December 2015. In Catalonia, one hundred daily dispatches are initiated on the basis of this law, half of the total of which are found throughout the State. It is urgent and essential to listen to the voice of the people of the people, and not only the determination to listen to it, but also the determination to materialize it, whether or not with the permission of the State. We will not tire of repeating it, this chamber must legislate in favour of the majority of the people and workers of this country because we need this Parliament to exercise as parliament will and not as an instrument of administrative decentralisation of the Spanish State. And that's why we're presenting proposals that translate requests for this Catalonia that fights for the right to housing, for public services, for freedom of expression and demonstration, for public school and defense of català, for survivors of male violence, for the working class, for young people without family references. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] It is necessary for us to determine ourselves, to govern us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.288.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.289.0	Shall we pose again? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.290.0	Thank you. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.291.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselor, deputies and deputies, there's a saying that if you do something in a certain way and it goes wrong, if you do it again the same way, it will go wrong. But, well, in any case, there are those who are willing to continue doing things badly. What are we gonna do? The resolution proposals we have tabled in this debate..., I understand that it is not a general policy debate, that we will have two months from now, exactly two months from now, it is a debate that we have tried to interpret, they know perfectly well what was the intention of the group that proposed it, in the sense that the government and the president are filling in more than other issues than the problems of a large majority of Catalans, and I would say that I would like to speak about the Catalans, right? We see the government, we see the president very focused on some concrete issues that affect a part of the citizenry, those of his parties, but we do not see the government taking measures that can benefit the whole of Catalan society. And that's why we've put forward proposals for resolutions, but they're showings; of each of the areas we've considered appropriate, we've put in samples, right? So, in the realm of salvation, there are many problems, so we raised the issue of waiting lists, right? With a proposal let's say it's generic that you can show who the problems are in each of these areas. And we did it in good faith, didn't we? Because the second is teaching, and we could've talked about the sightings of the unknown, or the spies, we didn't do it at this point, but we're talking about the barracks, right? And we did it that way, in good faith, so, because even all the groups that support the government can support it. On the social protection system there are many questions that affect us, however, look, today the unions, employers and professionals of the sector of the great people, of the residents of the great people, are manifested at the plaça Sant Jaume, read a manifesto – the counselor knows it perfectly. And we said, "Well, look, we share the demand of this sector, the agaphem and the transfer to the plenary because the plenary is ruling on a demand that the affected themselves make, right? Tax reform. We did not want to raise elements of the tax reform that we put up several times here in the plenary of the Parliament, and we did not present one that I think should generate a certain consensus, that is that Catalans with yields lower than less than thirty_ thousand_ euros, which are 80_percent of Catalan taxpayers, are the Spaniards who pay the most IRPF because this government and this Parliament kept the highest rate on this tram. Listen, can we come to the consensus that the Catalans under 30,000 euros, or 33,000 euros, which seems to me to be what Ciutadans proposed, are not the Spaniards who pay more taxes? Can we stop being leaders in this sense about this? Road security? Now, therefore, recently the main concern is security in the city of Barcelona. We raise the issue of security in Barcelona and raise security issues in some other municipalities. And, therefore, let us also address this issue. About justice. We could also talk about some of the issues in the matter of justice, about the computers, these notes that appear to them. Don't do it – don't do it, huh? But we say to them: "Escoltin, there are problems in equipment and infrastructure, in judicial buildings, which make it difficult for professionals to work. Therefore, approach them. And this is the proposal we're putting to you. Reforestation of expanses, therefore, that have suffered fires, like now the Ribera d'Ebre, but any other fires. We're asking you, too, mirin, to suppress the tolls. It seems to me that this is the first time... - of the highways that depend on the Generalitat, isn't it? It is the first time in Parliament that the removal of tolls from motorways is proposed. There was someone who was demonstrating a lot before the tolls – when they were at the opposition, it's clear – they were manifesting a lot because if they suppressed the tolls, but I don't think you'll ever get to vote. Well, then, we say to them: "Now that the tolls of the highways of the State will rise, listen to me, the planting that we raise the tolls of the highways of the Generality. And a_design, which is a decade in relation to living together – I've missed any –, which is a decade in relation to living together. And they'll let me finish telling them that yesterday, surely from yesterday's session, what was more commented between pasts and media and social media are the musical notes than about coexistence. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] dedicating my group companion to the President of the Generality...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.292.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.293.0	But above all, don't forget one thing: Catalonia at these times, the government and its president, ignoring the half of the Catalans, is the one that defies every day. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.294.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group is now the return of Congresswoman Marta Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.295.0	Well, very late. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. General debate on the proposals of the real Catalonia, a new staging of the usual theatre to which Ciutadans has accustomed to Parliament. But, look, this time we appreciate it, we appreciate it because that's why we can explain how this real Catalonia is, that it's true that there are various optics, but as we think it is, and actually it's real. The real Catalonia, by luck, is diverse and plural, as diverse as the ones we are, in fact, represented here in this chamber. Real Catalonia is also the situation of inequality – yes, because inequalities exist, we do not deny them – and we curse to fight against government, administrations, municipalities and where we are represented. Real Catalonia is also a cohesive, plural but cohesive country, and with this plurality it wants to walk like a people's sun, without fractures, without leaving anyone behind, despite Ciutadan's intentions to break us and to seek problems where they are not. The real Catalonia is also, and unfortunately for some time now, repression and systemic violation of rights, a repression that is very real, which may affect only a few, but which we must fight because it never follows repression a tool to stop those who want to transform society day by day. And real Catalonia, to give a last example in this description, is also where we are told the questions of opinion, and they say that, before the question about which is the main problem in Catalonia, the one that most of the Catalan society, as the CEO says, is the relationship between Catalonia and Spain. That's all real Catalonia, that's all reptes, that's great, that's great reptes, but that's what we want to face and that's what we want to overcome. And, in fact, it's our responsibility to want them and be able to face them. And we're more clear about what we have to do. These days we've seen different groups in this room don't have any plans to respond to these needs. In fact, they have plans against: against linguistic immersion, against the internationalization of our country, and thus a long etcetera. We have also seen how the Spanish State has not planned for Catalonia either. We've seen it. I just might have listened to these last couple of days. There is no project for Catalonia, unlike us, that we have a country project. We know which model of country we want and which is the best model of country to respond to needs, a model of country in the form of a Catalan republic, to be a state with all its means, with all its powers and all its resources. And that's a lot more than just a statement of intent, it's a statement full of content, an entrepreneurial republic with decent work, a republic to benefit with rights and opportunities for everyone, an educational republic that puts up for culture, sustainable and with territorial balance, an open republic to the world and compromises with pau. As President Torra said yesterday, to have a welfare state as a state. And, indeed, and for us, this is the main shield. Without the tools of a state, without resources and skills, we are limited at the time of deploying this country model with the guarantee of equal opportunities for everyone. And we have repeated examples. All this, the limitations in the laws, the limitations in the resources, the deficiencies that we suffer and the incompliments of the State that we suffer over many and many years, all this must also be taken into account at the time of speaking of real Catalonia. If not, we take this into account and want to put it a lot on the table. That's why we've put forward a battery of resolution proposals that go back to what kind of country we want to build because this is a land of opportunity and hope, to fight these inequalities, but also to denounce these state failures, because, if not, we're unfair at the time of describing this real Catalonia. What do we want, for that matter? Local autonomy and modernization of the municipalities. But, of course, that also requires the waiver of the LRSAL, because, if not, we will not be able to achieve it. We want a country ahead of us, with a minimum wage of reference to enhance a catalyse of labour relations and to fight against precariousness, but we also need to repeal the decree that allowed companies in this country to move and move. We also need to repeal this decree. We want public media of quality and plural communication to help improve the democratic quality of the country. We want a coherent external action. And enough political interference from the state government. And we want a comprehensive model of public security, driving the necessary legislation and the adequacy of our efforts to meet the needs; but it is also necessary for the State to pay the debt of 800_million euros to the Mossos, if not, we would cheat. We want to defend the Catalan school and the defense, the Catalan school, as the model of success and inclusive and inclusive school, as the tool of social inclusion and social cohesion, barely the weight of Ciutadans. And we want the masters to be able to exercise freely. And that's why it's embarrassing that still Ciutadans didn't apologize, didn't apologize for the accusations he made and the check-in he did to the teachers of our country, from El Palau school. [[Greetings.]] What shame and what irresponsibility. They haven't asked for forgiveness yet. We'll vote for it now. And we want a model of universal salvation and equity, before those who wanted it to be expelled. But neither can we afford this model of salvation, this system of salvation, if the Spanish Government does not pay its commitments with Catalonia, like the Health Cohesion Fund, of more than 33_million euros. We want a country that fights climate emergency, that is environmentally sustainable, a country with first-class infrastructures and that does not have to suffer repeatedly from these chronic incompliments, as the third additional provision, or the Rolling Stock, or as the Mediterranean Corridor has not yet been completed. We want a country that respects the Catalan language and respects the occidentity of the Aran; that has democratic memory in its priorities and places for this Pla de you were initiated by the Romeva and Mundo Councillors, because without memory there will be no future. We want this country diverse, cohesive and with equal opportunities. And enough and building it is not worth it, deputies and deputies, when you demand everything from the generality and make a big view in the case of the Government of the Spanish State. He's not going. To be fair, we must demand it in a co-responsible manner. And neither will they find us demagic on the subject of minors, on the subject of disability or on the subject of dependence, and for this reason we ask rigour and responsibility, and less cynicism, in the case of the Group of Common We can, demanding the reprobation of Councillor El Homrani. It's cynical, regardless of the complexity of the country. You're a low-level policy. We do the self-criticism, yes, and we explain why they can't be completed, but it's low-level politics, acting with the fetge, today calling for their reprobation. We, counselor, see all the support for you. [[Greetings.]] Precisely because we want to talk about rights, one of the fundamentals is the right to life. And that's why we've put forward a motion for a resolution on equality and against male rape, in which we make a formal call to block the step to racist, xenophobic and male politics, and especially to put eyes on Vox, and we ask that no explicit or implicit pacts be made or their support accepted. We'll never do it. And we're not staying here. Also what we do is to find that it is obvious that it is, and that is why we also propose, without any doubt that the Generalitat is a person as a popular accusation in cases of male violence that correspond. All this is presented in various motions for resolutions. And how do we want to do all this? We want to do it as we like to do politics, with responsibility, with respect, also respond to those misinterpretations or misinterpretations that have been created, and to respond to this we have put forward a motion for a resolution on the provision of public services, because we believe that there have been intoxication campaigns that do not refer to reality. We are working on a good law to ensure the quality of the services, but things are not so easy. We defend a direct management, but this is not always possible. Proof of this, which is not always possible, is how the CUP group has put forward a motion for a resolution asking for legislation that the public sector, when awarding contracts do so, thus ensuring that it is able to pay 1,200_€ per month to those who are contracted. Exactly. Therefore, they are assuming that there must be a contract, that there must be a public contract. And that's why we're working on the Aragonese law, wrongly named the Aragonese law, because it's the anti-Florentine law, because it's the quality priority in the service in front of the price. [[Greetings.]] And as he told us that real Catalonia is also Catalonia that wants to fight repression, because there is repression, we have put forward a motion for a resolution to end this general cause against independence, and to fight for the defense of rights and freedoms, because we want to exercise all rights and freedoms, also the ability to argue against the monarch, a majority issue that generates consensus in our country. And if the Constitutional Court falls on us the resolution of this Parliament, we will bring it back to approve, to say no again, that the monarch does not represent us, and less still after the speech of October 3. We'll do it again, just like we'll do it again with the exercise of the rights that we're systematically being violated, we'll exercise them again, we'll claim them again, because that's how it's consolidated and that's how it's guaranteed. And, finally, one of the questions of this real Catalonia: we can only find an answer putting the view of the citizenry and also exercising the right to self-determination, and using the dialogue and negotiation to make it possible. And yes, it's true, as Congresswoman Alicia Romero said, 50 percent wants independence and 50 percent doesn't want independence, but 80 percent of our country's population wants to decide, and wants to vote. Therefore, this is where we must find ourselves, to make possible this ability to exercise the right to self-determination. The welcome is still...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.296.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.297.0	...this motion for a resolution. I ended up, like the rest of the companies, who've been longer. We welcome the proposal for a resolution shared between Esquerra Republicana, the Junts Group for Catalonia and the CUP. Yes to self-determination, yes to democratic solutions, yes to the freedom of political prisoners and yes to anti-repressive solidarity. We won't pass, we won't give up exercising...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.298.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.299.0	...without rights, nor the right to decide freely what our future is. I, therefore, have... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.300.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Marta Madrenas has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.301.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, very late. Now Congresswoman Vilalta has saved me a lot of work, because, therefore, she has done and detailed a series of concrete PRs in which we agree and, therefore, I will be able to devote my time, possibly, to reflecting on a more general background, right? The first is that Ciutadans today has again lost an opportunity, another opportunity. The Ciutadans Group has, at other times, evaded its political responsibility, its political responsibility in the face of opposition in this Parliament. I am not surprised, it is true, but the confession that leaves me puzzled by the persistent awareness of this group of turning from one direction to another towards political irrelevance, from one direction to political irrelevance. Each plenary of this Parliament you intervene with a lack of extreme rigour and flee – deliberately – any vestiges no longer of the desirable parliamentary courtesy but of a minimum of education, always using a challenging tone and barroer, if you will allow me. I imagine, of course, that they do not have to be aware, I imagine, of the harmful effects that this causes. It causes this climate of confrontation, of fracture, in which you obviously find your comfort zone and make it so difficult, that it makes it impossible many times to debate and reflect with consistency and honesty. And that's what you do. And, for another band, the Parliament, all of us, also lose the benefits of an effective opposition. We have lost, by its negligence, by its desire, a basic instrument for the deployment of the democratic potential of this Parliament. And that's what you did, too. [[Greetings.]] A plere the other your resignation, another occasion, deliberately, to influence the future of Catalonia. Well, I won't be the one to tell them what to do or stop doing. In fact, you proposed in this Parliament a debate on real Catalonia. First of all, I don't think it was his intention, but just as Mrs. Vilalta has acknowledged, we appreciate it, they have given us a hand, because, indeed, the Government has had the opportunity to explain our work of government to the citizens. From the Junts for Catalonia I thank them for this gesture, because yesterday President Torra, for example, with strength, was able to believe the ingenious work that this government does all, from all and every one of the councils, in favor of progress and in favor of citizenship in its conjunction, in a context, it is certain, of extreme difficulty, as it is today. I'm going back to the wire. You have come here with a proposal for a debate, to continue insisting on your mantra, that defending independence is to untie the problems of the people – I will already refer to it later, however – and at the time of truth it has been found that the reality has passed them over, and I am beginning to think that what I am going to say to you right now is a very bad news, but let us know that this independenceist government, this independenceist government, this government, this government, and this country is progressing, and I am sure that much slower than we would like all the papers, of course, but this government and this country are progressing. But this does not, as I said before, mean that in this Parliament we have a problem, that is that the main opposition group has resigned from politics, and that you are asking this House to talk about real Catalonia, but it is nothing more than a disguise. With their interventions they have done the usual: provoke, act with bad forms and crack. You... in fact, the only argument was to talk about paralysis to the Generality, when what is paralyzed is the democratic offer of the State to Catalonia. And for you – we would like to know, sincerely we would like to know – what should be the offer for Catalonia, lords of Ciutadans? What are they proposing for the future of this country? Because I listened carefully to all his interventions. Some people agree that they have been clearly harmless, but I have followed them closely. What did you propose? Mrs. Roldán, you have presented yourself to the chamber as a 2.0 version of Mrs. Arrimadas. Res again – res again. The same thing, the same speech, the same old song. You've had Mrs. Sierra over you, haven't you? I have to recognize him, too. He has overcome it and made a speech – I recognize it – clearly immoral, and above it he has been retired for most of the groups in this Parliament. And you denied it. He reminded me of the driver who goes on the highway in the direction of the road and who feels on the radio: "Look, there's a car that goes on the highway in the direction of the road. And he said, "A no, draw. So, you're doing the same thing. [[Greetings.]] Blindness [[remorse of the voice]] It prevents them from making proposals. You have raised a parliamentary debate – and now you see, I suppose you see it – from which you have not come much harmed. And this should start them thinking, they should think. That with his attitude his own group in injures, therefore, laugh, sincerely, another time, I do not care, or, it is more, I am glad. But on the other hand, we are concerned, and very much so, about the rest of the parliamentary groups which, with their attitude here, are resorting to losing the democratic quality of this country. And I know that talking about democratic quality is something that sounds good to you, but believe me, what I'm saying is that it's very important that we talk about it. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.302.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.303.0	It's very important... don't worry, I did. It is very important to talk to us, because, as we have said before, three of every four Catalans believe that democratic quality is currently deficient. Be aware, please, once in a while, that real Catalonia is concerned about this, as you are aware! I suppose they didn't deny that 75 percent of Catalans could consider Catalonia real, right? And on the other hand, you're on the run. And this can only mean two things: either they have a great disconnect from real Catalonia or they don't care about them in absolute real Catalonia. I, surely, the little knowledge can be, and now I don't say it with irony, so why don't they run together from Catalonia. And I really don't say it with irony. I'm saying because they're so far away from the city's cleanest administrations, they're so far away from what people think or let them think, that I think this is the main cause of their real disconnection from the real concerns of Catalans. [[Greetings.]] I know he's gonna go in for one ear and out for another, huh? [[remorse of the voice]] But if we want to continue to advance towards a state of powerful well-being, which I put before all people, its protection, its integral development, which generates opportunities, that knowledge and social justice follow the nuclear elements of the economy, that the preservation of the environment is inexcusable, if we want all this, we have a formula: to have the tools of a good state. And that shares a very important part of this country. As a large majority of this country also shares the dramatic injustice that exists here today, in a country around Europe, in principle, democratic, that there are prisoners and exiles and political exiles who have lost their freedom to defend all of us. [[Greetings.]] This is also shared by a large part of the country. At the length of this debate, and in many of the proposals approved today, the repeated incompliments of the State towards Catalonia, some incompliments and a lack of blatant loyalty to all Catalans, unacceptable fiscal, social, democratic, reverse, structural, intolerable to all Catalans. These deficiencies are the spring of the bone of the current political context, and you are no longer referring only to them, but to them being denied. Listen, be honest and admit this reality, which is indisputable. But to be honest, they must be brave, and I don't think this is the case, because today they've made them a few more times talking about rights and freedoms, and they don't surprise us, we're used to it. But, listen, as I have only a short time left, I would also like to reflect that this attitude that we see is not of change from you we see that the Spanish State also maintains it, that it also has this same problem...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.304.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.305.0	...that of cowardice. To listen to the people, to listen to the ballot boxes, to the result of a referendum and to democracy. That's all that motivates you to continue giving us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.306.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.307.0	...of the resources we deserve. I'm done. Why, you know? They don't give us the resources we deserve because the State of the Kingdom of Spain knows...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.308.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.309.0	...that we are able to leave in evidence its democratic fragmentation and its... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.310.0	Why ask me the word, Mrs. Sierra?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.311.0	For direct allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.312.0	They're all in love with each other. You know you're not...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.313.0	Mrs. Madaula gave the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.314.0	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Put your votes on, Congresswoman, you know I don't. ( Sonia Sierra Infante intervenes without using the microphone.) Congresswoman, you don't have the word. Keep going. Let's go to the polls... Sonia Sierra Infante intervenes without using the microphone. ) Yes, she did, Congresswoman, yes, she did before the congresswoman. All the deputies... all the deputies, including one of their group, to whom I have given the word before they have been praised. In this debate there have been allusions from all groups with all, and now we will not enter a new round of debate. So let's keep going. Congresswoman, you don't have the word. ( Sonia Sierra Infante intervenes without using the microphone.) You don't have the word – you don't have the word. Keep going. Let's get to the vote. Motions for resolutions have been asked... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Why ask me the word, Congresswoman, now?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.315.0	For contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.316.0	No, Congresswoman, don't try to find the subterfuge... I told you no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.317.0	No, let's see, no...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.318.0	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.319.0	See...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-25-3603.320.0	Congresswoman, you don't have the word – you don't have the word. I didn't insist. You don't have the word. Keep going. Vote... [[Widow's remorse. Sonia Sierra Infante intervenes without using the microphone.]] Congresswoman, if you follow him, you'll have to call him to order. [[Widow's remorse.]] Congresswoman! Shut up, everybody! Mr. Batet, you too. [[Rialles.]] Keep going. [[Greetings.]] Put your vote to the vote. They will vote, as you know, all the motions for resolutions, one by one, of all the parliamentary groups, and we will finally vote on the transactions. They shall vote in accordance with the order given at the Bureau. And we will therefore start with the proposals put forward for the Republican Parliamentary Group. We vote in the first place on motion for a resolution No 17. The vote begins... [[Widow's remorse.]] Excuse me. There's been some trouble with the waiter. Let's get back to it. We are voting on resolution 17 of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 17 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats was adopted by 80 votes to 8, with 44 abstentions. Let's now vote for number 18. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 75 votes to 21, with one abstention and 35 Members or Members present who have not voted. Let us now vote on resolution No. 1 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution No. 1 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Possão was adopted by 68 votes to 64, with no abstentions. And now we vote on the motion for resolution No. 2 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The vote begins... [[Widow's remorse.]] Excuse me. It is true; this has been negotiated and we will vote for it at the end. Let us vote on number 3 – excuse me – and vote on the motion for a resolution number 3 of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem. Right now. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 3 was rejected by 24 votes to 36, with 72 abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 4. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 4 was adopted by 64 votes to 68, with 68 abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 5. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 5 was adopted by 72 votes to 56, with 4 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 6 was rejected by 8 votes to 56, with 67 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 7 was rejected by 12 votes to 68, with 52 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution number 7_has been..., there was a tie: 64 votes in favour, 64 against and 4 abstentions. Let's go back to voting, for that matter. We vote on Resolution No. 7 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia... Pardó, 8, de Catalunya en Comú Puem, 8. A further 64 votes in favour, 64 against and 4 abstentions were put to the motion for a resolution No 8. We have to vote a third time. We'll cheat on the stamp. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, we're going to vote again on resolution number eight. The vote begins. There has been a new tie: 64 votes in favour, 64 against, 4 abstentions; therefore, this motion for a resolution does not prosper. Keep going. We are voting on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 9_has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 56 against, 64 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution 10. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 10 was rejected by 12 votes to 88, with 32 abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. We are voting for resolution number one. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 1 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar was rejected by 64 votes to 68, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 2 has been adopted by 131 votes in favour, against, abstentions and one Member present who has not voted. We are now voting on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 3 was rejected by 64 votes to 68, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 128 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 5. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 5 was adopted by 68 votes to 64, with 64 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 6 was adopted by 128 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 7. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 7 of the Socialist and Uniti per Avançar Parliamentary Group was adopted by 64 votes to 67 with 67 abstentions. And we are now voting on resolution No. 9, since number 8 has been dealt with and so we will vote on it at the end. The vote on the motion for a resolution No. 9 begins. Motion for a resolution No 9 was adopted by 68 votes to 64, with 64 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution 10. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 10 was rejected by 60 votes to 64, with 8 abstentions. We now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Let's vote first. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 59 votes to 64, with 8 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. The motion for resolution No. 2 of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia was adopted by 68 votes to 64, with no abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 3 was rejected by 64 votes to 68, with no abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 4. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 4 was rejected by 40 votes to 91 with no abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 5. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 5 was rejected by 20 votes to 76, with 36 abstentions. And we are now voting on Motion for a resolution No. 6. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 6 was adopted by 68 votes to 64, with 64 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 128 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And we now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 8 [[remorse of the voice]] of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia has been approved by 12 votes in favour, 3 against and 117 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution 9... We are voting on resolution 9 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 9 was adopted by 60 votes to 72. And we are now voting on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. The motion for resolution No. 10 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia was rejected by 40 votes to 75, with 16 abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Let's start with number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 41 votes to 91 with no abstentions. We are now voting on Resolution No. 2, with the built-in error correction. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 2 was rejected by 37 votes to 80, with 15 abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 3. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution No 3 of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group was adopted by 128 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 4. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 4 was rejected by 40 votes to 84, with 8 abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 5. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 5 was adopted by 68 votes to 64, with no abstentions. And let us now vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 6 was rejected by 40 votes to 76, with 16 abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 7. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 7 was adopted by 68 votes to 64, with 64 abstentions. And we now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 120 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. And now we vote on number 9. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 9 was rejected by 40 votes to 92, with no abstentions. And now we are voting on motion for resolution No. 10. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution No 10 of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group was rejected by 56 votes to 76 with no abstentions. We now vote on the motion for a resolution presented jointly for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Cree, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republic, with the incorporated error correction. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution [[applause]] has been approved by 76 votes to 20, with no abstentions and 34 Members and Members present who have not voted. [[Perlongats applause.]] We now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Crida Constituent. Let us first vote on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 67 votes to 29, with one abstention and 35 Members or Members present who have not voted. We are now voting on number 4, as the third, number 3, has been negotiated and so we will vote on it at the end. We vote on CUP Resolution No. 4 - Constituent Call. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by four votes in favour, 120 against and 8 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 120 against and no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 119 against and no abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 7. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 7 was rejected by 12 votes to 68, with 52 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 120 against and no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 84 against and 36 abstentions. And finally we vote on CUP Resolution No. 10 - Constituent Cry. The vote begins. The CUP resolution No. 10 - Crida Constituent was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 53 against, 32 abstentions and 35 Members or Members present who have not voted. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Let's start with number 19. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 19 was adopted by 76 votes to 56, with no abstentions. And now we are voting on motion for resolution No. 20. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 20 was adopted by 65 votes to 60, with 7 abstentions. We shall continue to vote on the motions for resolutions tabled jointly by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, of which the number 1_has been negotiated and so we will vote at the end. We therefore proceed directly to vote on the motion for resolution number 2, jointly between the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 123 votes to one, with eight abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution has been adopted by 75 votes to 56, with no abstentions and one Member present who has not voted. And now we vote on motion for resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 76 votes to 40, with 16 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 5 was adopted by 76 votes to 4, with 52 abstentions. The motion for a resolution number 6 of this bloc has been dealt with, and we will therefore vote on it at the end. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 7 was adopted by 68 votes to 53, with 11 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 9, because 8_has been negotiated and we will vote on it as well as the others at the end. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 9 was adopted by 87 votes to 40, with 4 abstentions. And now we vote on number 10. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 10 was adopted by 91 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. And now we're voting 11th. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 11 was adopted by 127 votes to four, with no abstentions. And now we're voting at 12. The vote begins. The 12th motion for a resolution of this bloc was adopted by 66 votes to 20, with 44 abstentions. And now we're voting at 13. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 118 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. And now we are voting on motion for resolution No. 14. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was unanimously adopted, i.e. 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we are voting on motion for resolution No 15. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 15 was adopted by 67 votes to 56, with 8 abstentions. And now we vote on number 16. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 75 votes to 4, with 52 abstentions. We are voting now, finally, on the compromise resolution proposals, and first of all on the compromise proposal between the resolution proposal No. 8 of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, and the resolution proposal No. 8 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 83 votes to 8, with 40 abstentions. We now vote on the compromise proposal between the motions for resolution No. 6 of the Parliamentary Group Joints for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, and the motion for resolution No. 3 of the Parliamentary Sub-group of the Popular Unity Candidate - Cree Constituent. The vote begins. This compromise was adopted by 75 votes to 39, with 16 abstentions. I, finally, vote on the compromise proposal between the motion for resolution No. 1 of the Parliamentary Group Joints for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, and the proposal for resolution No. 2 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 74 votes to 56, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] There are no more motions for resolutions to vote, more points on the agenda. The session's up. Have a good time.
