ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.1.0	Well, good afternoon. MPs, MPs... [[Widow's remorse.]] Silence, please... Let's begin the session of the specific session, in which we will vote the procedure to appoint a senator to represent the Generality to the Senate. In the first place, and before that, I would like to welcome the new deputy of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eduardo Reyes. Welcome back, Mr. Reyes. And, before going to the vote, also to make them guess that, according to Rule 95 of the Rules, the deputy Mr Carles Castillo, with a motion of discharge for malalty, has delegated his vote to the deputy Mrs Eva Granados, spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. [[Accumulated procedures to appoint senators to represent the Generality in the Senate]] [[280-00002/12 and 280-00003/12]] The only point on the agenda of this specific session is the procedure for appointing a senator to represent the Generality to the Senate, at the same time as the vacancy resulting from the resignation of the very honorable Lord José Montilla and Aguilera. In this sense, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Forward presented the candidacy of Mr Manel de la Vega Carrera, to whom I also take advantage to greet. As the Committee on the Status of Deputies has ruled that it does not compete for any cause of ineligibility, and has declared the candidate, formally, that if he is elected to accept the charge, we proceed to the appointment. Thus, the corresponding opinion on the eligibility of Ms Adelina Escandell and Ms Grasses as a candidate for Senator, on the proposal of the Republican Parliamentary Group, was approved, following the resignation of Ms Mirella Cortès and Ms Gès on 21 November. In accordance with Rule 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposals, therefore, since they had provided for the voting of the first candidature, extended the agenda to allow the voting of the second proposal to take place. Is there no impediment on the part of parliamentary groups? [[Pause.]] The voting system was dealt with by the Board of Spokespersons. We will vote electronically and in secret each of the applications separately. Therefore, we will vote, in the first place, the candidacy of Mr Manel de la Vega Carrera and, later, the candidacy of Mrs Adelina Escandell i Grasses. The documentation corresponding to the two candidatures will be distributed with the Ple file. And, in accordance with Law 6/2010, we put to the vote the proposal for the nomination, as I said, in the first place, of the candidacy of Mr Manel de la Vega Carrera. Let us therefore proceed to the vote on this candidacy. The vote begins. The candidature of Mr De la Vega has been approved by 123 votes in favour, 1 against, 6 abstentions and 1 MEP present who have not voted. And now we vote for the second of the candidatures, which correspond to Ms. Adelina Escandell i Grasses. The vote begins. Mrs Scandell's candidature was approved by 83 votes in favour, one against, 43 abstentions and three Members or Members present who have not voted. Thus, the two proposals for the appointment of Senator and Senator in the name of Mr Manel de la Vega and Mrs Adelina Escandell are ratified. We raise the session of this specific session and move to the ordinary plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.2.0	Let us therefore begin the session of the ordinary plenary session. In the first place, I inform you that the list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary has been included in the dossier and that, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be replaced tomorrow morning at 10.30 a.m., as would be the case with the order of the day of this plenary session. I also suggest that, according to Rule 95 of the Rules, Deputy Carles Castillo, also for this session, and with a low-level motion for malalty, has delegated his vote to the deputy Mrs Eva Granados, spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] I would also like to inform you that, in addition to the fact that the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia establishes, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, 1,123 people have died in the Mediterranean since the birth of the month. [[Composition of the Bureau of Parliament]] [[398-00001/12]] Let's get to the order of the day. Before, however, I also make a proposal to alter this, for Article 83.3, in view of the resignation of Mrs Adriana Delgado as the fourth secretary of the Bureau, and therefore the proposal that the first item on the agenda of this session should be the election of a new secretary or fourth secretary of the Bureau. Is there any problem with changing the order of the day? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we incorporate this point as first point, and, in any case, before we follow, on behalf of myself and on behalf of the Bureau, thank Deputy Delgado, Mrs Adriana Delgado, for her pocket to the Bureau. Thank you, Mrs Delgado, for your dedication. [[Greetings.]] In order to proceed to the election of the new secretary or fourth or fourth secretary of the Bureau, and in accordance with Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall do so by means of a vote with papers, which must be delivered to the Bureau so that they are placed in the ballot box prepared for this purpose. According to Rule 44 of the Rules, each Member must write a name to the paper and the person who gets the majority of the votes will be elected. They shall consider null and void unreadable papers containing a name higher than the requirement or names relating to persons who are not members of the Parliament. Papers without written indication will consider blank votes. I remind the House that the members of the Government who remain parliamentarians and the members of the Bureau will vote at the end. I pray to the secretary first, Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós, who started the call of the deputies from the number that will come out at random. [[According to Rule 101.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally called in alphabetical order to vaginate to the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The deputies who are members of the Government and the members of the Bureau are called at the end.]] Is there any deputy or deputy who hasn't been called to vote? Don't you? (Pause.) So we'll go to the countdown. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] The result of the vote was the following: Mrs Rut Ribas, 64 votes; Mrs Maria Sirvent, 4 votes; blank votes, 62; null votes, 3. Therefore, Mrs Rut Ribas was elected as the fourth secretary of the Bureau, and she was asked to take her place at the Bureau. [[Greetings. The nameplate occupies its place.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into university]] [[302-00156/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into the university, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. To defend her, the honourable Member, Alicia Romero, has the word. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.3.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors, counselors, deputies and deputies. The Socialists and Forward Units Group presented an inquiry to the Government about the difficult days, complicated days that the university lived – also the society, but our faith in concrete terms about the university – the days after we knew all the named feeling of the process. They were difficult days because, probably, as in society, they saw, therefore, different rights involved that we believe we can guarantee in a very strong way, both to society – but that's what we've already talked about – as in the same university. And that's why we said we needed to pose... a lot of time ago, because we've approved various university motions, but we said that we need to put the university on the political agenda. As we speak more of university as a knowledge generating center, a knowledge that helps social and economic well-being, innovative through knowledge that injects into our economic fabric and that favors, therefore, developments for which it does development and knowledge and fights against cancer as, for example, that some businesses can be more competitive, so they have elements, for example, that fight against climate change, right? , and empowering, for example, the electric car. Well, very different things, that it's true that they don't care about college, like knowledge, and that we think we should put it on the table. So, well, our young lady who claims to be saying some things about what we think should be the university. To begin with, a space of reflection, a space of debate, a space of respect and tolerance for all ideas. We believe that this should be the university, because if the university also has to generate something that is the critical, critical spirit before they present us, it should be the most reasonable to the university: "I doubt what they explain to me, I doubt my position when another person who does not think like me transmits his ideas to me and we believe that this one should be..., this now that it is the university that should have these coincident elements by excellence. We think this didn't happen on these days. The university hasn't been this, it's been a two-right fight space, sometimes, where the violence has been used to impose a right in front of each other, and we think that this can't be allowed. We believe that there have been images that make our university very bad, with hooded people, therefore, with violence, trying to confront other people and we have also seen people, so that they do not show their face, talking – to say so in their own way – with a rector, trying to impose, therefore, their reason, right? We don't think that imposing raons – there isn't one, surely there are many raons – is what comes to university. That is why we want to make it clear that we believe that it is the university and how the university has to guarantee two rights, it is true: the right of demonstration, of protest by the one who wants to protest before something that seems unfair to him, as could be the feeling of the process, but we also believe that it is necessary to ensure that those students who do not feel questioned in this protest can also attend the class and as those teachers can, must develop their academic activity with normality. That's what we think we need to preserve, and that's why we're giving this reason that the government also has to put instruments at the bottom of the university because that's what we can guarantee. And, obviously, there is a university autonomy, this principle of university autonomy must be guaranteed, it must be preserved, but, from this mark, the Government must also put in place the mechanisms because these two rights can be guaranteed. And it seems to us that this is important and has not been done. It didn't happen, we had a government missing from the universities. We told the inquiry that even the president had not summoned the rectors, when he did summon those professors who presented in the cloister those motions or resolutions against the judgment of the process and, in change, did not call the rectors, did not meet with them; nor, obviously, with representatives of students, and it seems to us that it is not a waste. The government has to worry about those situations that are in Catalonia and not only has to act on its own, as President Torra does, and this government often does, but it has to act as the president of all and as the government of all. We haven't had the university council in this area either. And, therefore, what we are asking for is a summons, therefore, urgent, which may be tomorrow or may be from here a week or fifteen days from now, but a summons to these rectors, who have not only experienced difficult times, but who have been living since 2012, when it was 30_per_cent of their funding and it was 66_per_cent of their university fees. There is a message from the government that you say, or from the groups that support the government, that, as a matter of urgency, you can't summon them and that there are already organs, space where they are found. Home, I think that this less rector, that they are the highest representatives of the university, is not a waste. Wait till they think about it. There have been many groups that have come in and, in any case, after that, we will position ourselves on these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.4.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Republican Parliamentary Group and to defend the papers presented, it is the return of Mrs Gemma Espigares.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.5.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... [[The joker laughs.]] Miri, Member of Parliament Romero, I recognize it, I am thick, so thick that, having understood the parliamentary dynamic, when I began to look at the young lady, what she gave me to look at was not the joint, that also and therefore we did not make papers, was the title. This is not a reason about universities, this is a reason, in any case, of the question of the representativeness of the clauses, of the question of the right of demonstration, of the question or of the limits that the PSC wants to impose on the university dialog; therefore, it speaks of university autonomy, but it questions a lot of things that he thought were more than guaranteed at the university. And, of course, and before, with Congresswoman Rut Ribas we were discussing, when Ciutadans proposes a motion, that we will see it continued, basically, of censorship of the fundamental rights and a thought to the totality of university autonomy, of course, you seem the good, the moderates, on the side of who proposes that the Mosso enter the university campus, when the university professor knows that this is not done – in fact, and I have been told that I did not propose the Benemeria either – I mean, for the time being, we have come this far. So, look, obviously, Esquerra Republicana will vote yes on the side of the dialect, because we have always done so, that the university is a place of thought, that is guaranteeing the right of manifestation, but in Catalonia, there is a political conflict with the Spanish State, that every time it represses and represses us stronger, and look, I read what you said the other day, during the inquiry: "I don't know if we should all promote the neutrality of an institution as plural as the university. And he also talks about the fact that manifests have been approved that are not the majority. I don't know what you mean by majority voting. In fact, the seven public universities, therefore, not the majorities, all of them, 100_percent of the public universities have approved a joint manifesto of repressing the sentence and returning to politics that is political and not judicializing it so far. For 85_percent of the claustrals. I don't know what it is, for you, "majority; if 85_per_cent isn't... And you know, because you know perfectly well, these claustrals represent 270,000 people in the university community. And with the look on my face that casts doubt on the representation of these people, and that's a problem, because then we'll also cast doubt on whether these 135 deputies represent the people of Catalonia or not, because they've been democratically chosen. Therefore, I understand that its problem is not whether it is majority or not, whether it is represented or not, but that what concerns you or bothers you is the content; it is the content because when the 90th year the University of Barcelona is position of adherence to the proposal not of the law of the Parliament of Catalonia on the right to self-determination– certainly, with a 90_percent support–, then we did not hear the PSC complain; nor when in the 1990s they discussed the war, nor the insubmissives, nor 2017 and 2018 on the freedom of prisoners... So, the problem is now, because the PSOE branch office in Catalonia now bothers him that he's talking about it. Clearly, this is... [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] And I understand that this is the problem. Therefore, look, I congratulate and thank the pocket of the companies that brought the manifesto here, to his of popular sovereignty, that carried the manifesto approved for all the universities, and the students that have mobilized continuously. Because the more he talks about guaranteeing the right to demonstration and confronts it with the right to study. The rights are not compared, the rights are exercised, and it is a pride the young man who has also come out of the universities to do so. He's talking about the urgent convoking of the rectors. Look, I don't know if you're thankful that the PSC is talking about making tricks... I don't know, maybe we should keep an eye on the things we ask when what you're doing in the campaign isn't that. I'm not angry – I'm not angry – that's my turn. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm not mad, I'm running out of time. Miri, to the Rectors, you have not asked that they be called upon, when members of the electoral union have been persecuted, when the PSOE and the PP have reduced the funding, when they offered us the repositioning rate to zero_percent of the faculty; then the Rectors were not to be summoned, it should not be a problem. Or when in the election campaign you have approved one more year for the pre-doctoral fellow without funding; that was not a problem either. So, look, the only thing we share with you is the economic difficulty the universities have had; that's right. Again, we do not share – we do not share – he discussed it. And the more you say that Esquerra and Juntes for Catalonia have dropped out of college, and that's what you said in your parliament, and that's very hard. And I say to him: Esquerra will be in the canto, in the month of generation, with assumptions that carry more than 2,000_million euros, with the drop of 30_per_cent. Will we be yours? – and I finish, President – will we be? Will they make this 30_per_cent drop that the vice president announced possible? Or two weeks later they'll tell us again that we're not complicating what the government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.6.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.7.0	...proposed? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.8.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Lluís Font.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.9.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, I really like your young lady's text better than her intervention, Congresswoman Romero. Then I'll talk to you about the text, because I'll compliment you on it, and I'll connect you with things that we also care about. From his intervention, maybe make a couple of remarks. I think it's true that university is the time for critical thinking, freedom. We'd have to put dissidents on a pedestal, because they remind us that there are different ways of seeing things. And, therefore, we agree very much with this visit. No, in change, to think that all ideas are respectable. I think that what is respectable are people who profess ideas, and because of respect for people we have to be curious about criticism, but not all ideas, it seems to me, in a democratic country, are acceptable. The concept of neutrality, I think we should think about it. It's a matter of not confusing everything with the shares. But it should not be an exercise of amnesia or silence, because the democratic society is plural and it is good that all thoughts and debates come out. What we need to look for is that we don't confound among all that is the point of view of some with which is the institutional vision. And, for what he does to the role of the rulers, I think he's very good at what he's said, that he has to rule for everyone, thinking about university, thinking about the political problems of Catalonia in relation to Spain and thinking about a lot of things. I believe that it is a principle that we should set up and establish; that is to say, every ruler must be able to think, in his exercise, in the conjunction of the citizens, even though sometimes he does not like the ideas that some profess. For what he does to the text strictly, I will allow me to read the first statement, because I think it is very attractive; perhaps not above the level of reflection that Ortega does in the mission of the university, but I think it is in line and therefore it is necessary to make a reminder of it: "The university must be a space for reflection, says Congresswoman Romero, "and the dialogue, of respect and tolerance for ideas, a space of creation and thought, where the word does not have to be protagonist. That's it. If there is a thermometer that measures the democratic quality of a society, surely it is the environment, the climate that makes university possible. If there is a thermometer of the progress of the city council, it is also the thermometer of the quality of the research, of the teaching, of the compromise of all the agents involved in the university. And the second point says: "The university must guarantee and enforce the right of demonstration and protest, as well as the right of academic activity. Perfect; it seems to me that it is very well settled, this principle. Therefore, at the first two points we will vote in favour, naturally, because they are a clear presentation of what must be the university for all of us. The third, who have accepted a transaction and who we appreciate, situates the state of the question without making an apocalyptic report. And that's also very important, because sometimes we have the tempt, at the time of making proposals, of distorting reality and demerging what is being done among all. Thanks to the professorship, thanks to the fellow, thanks to the researcher, the University of Catalonia, despite the fact that there has been a reduction in the public contribution, which has been compensated with a greater contribution of families and users, has maintained a high level of demand, a high level of quality, recognized for the students, but also for the ability to insert their graduates, etc. But this cannot be perpetuated, and therefore we must face a reversal of this situation. Therefore, it is necessary to start from this principle of reality and recognize it. We will also vote in favour, therefore, of the 3rd trading point. Points 4 and 5 seem redundant. I mean, the university already has the mechanisms to make these principles work. University autonomy, which was also mentioned by the Member of Parliament Romero, is fundamental. I wouldn't say it's a sacred principle, in a secular society, but I do want to respect it and make sure that the defense of certain principles does not imply an alteration of the balance, of the homeostasis of the conjunction. The rectors and rectors know that they can appeal to the Administration whenever I need to make this freedom spirit prevail in the university's syllabus. We do not create exceptional situations, because this results in a damage from the same university. Just like the fact of meeting: it seems that the insinuated text that there is no fluid relationship between the directors and the directors, the councillor or the secretary of universities, and this is uncertain: they meet often, in public bodies and in more private conversations, and what they all want, and they are skilled and complicit, is to get the situation back to as soon as possible. And at the same time we will abstain, because we agree with what is proposed – a better public financing, a reduction, therefore, of the taxes and charges that users bring – but it must take into account the context in which we are, it must take into account the necessary progress. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.10.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mr Lucas Ferro. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.11.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, the PSC's motion basically has two great lines of reflection around the universities: one is the economic situation of the universities, after eight years of detail that are breaking down the system of public universities at home, and then the political situation in the universities after weeks of conflict, after the Supreme Court's judgment..., well, with class suspension, with pickets, with tension situations that I think we all can see. There are images that we have seen these days in universities – and also outside of universities – that have not pleased us, and I think the reflection that we are certainly sharing in this Parliament. But we believe that the task of parliamentary groups at a time of political tension is not to go there, ask what the discussion was about, choose a banner and ask after all the institutions – the Parliament, the Generality and the public universities – act in consequence of our ideas. Have we seen images that have not pleased us? Yeah. Have we seen excessively extraordinary images? No, no, We would also ask, a little, to have the ability not to normalize these situations, but to know how to take them with a certain responsibility, especially in universities, that they are an environment where there is a very intense politics of the students and where there is a much more dynamic political life. And it is precisely in tense situations as we have experienced where we believe that the responsibility of a parliament such as this is not to take part, but to be able to reflect on the fundamental rights that must govern public life in this country, as for example in what way we guarantee the right to demonstration and protest in a situation where there are students who are claimed to also comply with their academic obligations. And this means, for us, a very simple thing: the obligation to go to class and, therefore, the obligation to complete an academic curriculum, so that there is continued evaluation, so that there are mandatory practices or so that there are, on those days, assessments of the studentship, they cannot be over a law recognized in the Constitution, which is the right to protest and the right to protest. And, therefore, the universities and the rectors and rectors of the universities must assume that when there is a student protest it will be necessary to alter the curriculum and academic calendar that has been set up at that time, because not to do so is to place an academic calendar over a phone book collected as such in the Constitution. And, therefore, as far as the right to protest and protest is concerned with student obligations or with other student rights, public universities must guarantee how the right to protest and the right to protest is exercised. And, about the first two points, we wanted to say that. I know that we have experienced difficult situations, and surely the rectors and rectors of the universities of this country have not had a few easy weeks, and I think that it is always deeply disloyal to use them as the head of Turkish when they don't give us the reason, when they don't get the Mobile Brigade to charge against the students or demand them – as will be required – to expel students from their own universities. But I think we should also thank them for their ability and understanding to open up dialog mechanisms that can reconcile the right to manifest themselves with the right not to be suspected to do so or to lose obligatory practices or classes to do so. We will abstain; it is not possible to reach a message with the PSC at this point. I think if we had had more time we would have gotten there easily, but there was some problem in transcribing the puzzle. And, in any case, in the second part of the motion, the one that has to do with the consequences of retail policies in this country, we will also abstain, basically because of the government's message, which says in text: "For the effects of the economic crisis, it was necessary to cut a 30_per_cent in universities and push taxes a 66_per_cent. And basically we'll abstain because we think she's lying, that it wasn't because of the effects of the economic crisis, but it was because of a certain government economic bet. The same government that collected €1,000_million in inheritance tax in 2008 lowered it to $300_million and taxed it. And this has cost us, over these years, $4,000 million. What has been discussed in universities is not a third of what has been devoted to subsidizing the taxes of those who have the most in this country. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] The opposite is not whether we let the crisis stand or not...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.12.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.13.0	...but let the retail policies stand in the way. Thank you very much, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.14.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position he has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr David Bertran. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.15.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, first of all, I would like to recall that yesterday was the Day against Violence against Women; it is a scourge that still persists in our societies, and therefore our parliamentary group and I strongly condemn this kind of violence and we define that we must continue to fight it. Likewise, I must say that it has been sad, for my part, to receive the spot developed by the City of Barcelona, governed by PSC and by commons, in which it is described, is characterized by the people who speak Spanish as potential abusers and the people who speak Catalan only as potential defenders. (Whispering) This is a struggle of all, regardless of the language we speak, and that is why we must be absolutely united in this regard. (Applause.) Says the first point of the motion: "The university must be a space for reflection, the dialect, of respect and tolerance in all ideas. A space of creation and thinking where the word has to be the protagonist. Who could be against that phrase? So these people [[the orator shows the camera a photograph]] , those who fit in without democratic legitimacy decide to prevent by physical force students and teachers, therefore, exercising their right to education. Look, the university has certain forums where its members can debate various issues and make decisions, and that, obviously, is very good. I remember very proudly my step to Pompeu Fabra University, where I helped establish and develop an association that is called Debat. Org, in which people of many different bands are gathered, debate, dissent, and bring people who also had very different ideological inscriptions, and this is what must be the university, dialogue and dissension respectfully and contribute to academic and social formation. Even so, this has not been the core of the universities in these past times, and we have seen how there have been positions on the part of certain governing bodies – some governing bodies that we need to remember are elected to decide on university policy and that in any case they have powers to express an opinion that encompasses the whole of the university community – setting out a monolithic ideological position. And fortunately, there has been a manifesto on the part of eight hundred university professors, who have told the Catalan Rectors that a public administration, in fact, as such, an administration does not have freedom of expression, since this is an attribution that only the citizens hold, and that in fact, this, expressing this monolithic position of the universities, attempts against the individual right – Article 16 of the Spanish Constitution – for which it makes ideological freedom, that each member of the university community has an individual form. It may be recalled that, after all, Minister Duque stood in favour of this letter, even though, unfortunately, later, he did not develop any action from his ministry, in the same way that he did not act to enforce the right, therefore, of those students who wanted to freely go to class, those students who saw how the hoods tried to violate their rights. Say point 2 of the motion to guarantee the right of manifestation, as well as the right to go to class. So it seems obvious, but it is that we see that the right of demonstration has not been violated, from the point of view of the way, they were able to do, the ones that were manifested, they did what they wanted, they were vague for the whole week, and they went, to and fro, so, showing their... or so, they did, they showed their discrepancy with the court's judgment. The problem, I repeat, was that there were many students who wanted to exercise their right to education and did not have the power. And here I would like to show my thanks, that of our parliamentary group, therefore, to associations like S'Ha Final! , which was organized to be able, therefore, to exercise the right of many students to go to class, against which few members of certain associations, like the SEPC, tried to prevent by physical force. Similarly, we do not agree that there is an evaluation system that is privileged for those who have, therefore, decided to join the demonstrations, because what it establishes is that they have academic privileges for those who have a concrete ideology. And, in fact, the same rector of the Pompeu Fabra University, who at first, therefore, by decision of the cloister, had not accepted these privileges, had to finish claudicating before the ones they occupied, a 1_per_cent– a 1_per_cent, maximum – of the university community, which occupied the Pompeu Fabra University, and ended up yielding to this chanting. This, Members, is what our parliamentary group cannot tolerate at all, and that is why, therefore, we will continue to fight for freedom and for the rights of all. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.16.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.17.0	Good afternoon, President. To pronounce ourselves in relation to this young man, not the next, from the escho. In the first place, the present young lady has two basic contents. One that refers to infra-financing, that we are obviously already moving our absolute support, and then we will put it into practice. And a_second that we could call right-weighting, of how the rights are found in certain areas, in this university area. We do want to move forward that we will not vote in favour of the agreement that has been reached with the governing groups on a very simple issue: the details of university funding and the increase in public fees do not originate in the crisis, they originate in certain policies, in the application of neoliberal policies. And, therefore, there could be some other alternative policies that do not support the crisis for workers or workers, in these cases, students and students. We would like to state that what was supposed, in 2012, to increase the public prices by 66_per_cent, was also accompanied by an expulsion of economic character from the university, a progressive degradation of the working conditions of the workers and the workers of the university, and permanent instability in the management, which often led to the need to square assumptions to those that would only have to be carried out in academic or scientific terms. On these concrete points of the motion we will vote in favour, but we also remember that it does not do so, some months, in another motion on university loans we wanted and we presented a message because they incorporated the compliment of the EPIF, which, today, we still do not have in all universities. We have not reproduced that question again because it has already been answered negatively. And then after the questions that are raised, and I wonder, we'll want to explain it in concrete terms. We don't value the intent of the PSC, we value the words of the present motion. It is said, in two of the points, in one concrete, in the 4, how to make the mobilization and manifestation compatible with the academic ordinary activity. So look, this is not possible, and let's set an example. If there are students who decide to wander, not attend class, if you continue academic activity, after the Bolonya course, you are punishing them. And, therefore, we will not be able to vote in favour of this supposed weighting of rights, which in practice has the effect of penalizing a certain group of students. And we are already telling them that there will be teachers and teachers that if one day at the Catalan public universities this is from the end, we will do a clear activity of conscientious objection to give absolute support to the dissidence and to those students and those students who decide to mobilize.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.18.0	Congressman, thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr. Daniel Serrano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.19.0	Thank you, President. We share much of the background of the motion, and we understand that the university is and must be a space to spread knowledge, but not only that, it must also be a space where freedom, respect, plurality and reflection rule as leitmotiv of what the university is to be, and we believe that this has been called into question in recent weeks because of a group of fanaticized young independenceists. And this is the case, this has happened, and it has occurred fed, in part, by the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, and what is more surprising, with the complicity of the Rectors. How can it be that in Catalonia, in the Catalonia of the 21st century, the rectors have stood on the side of the strikers who prevented young people, like those of S'Ha Afinet! could they exercise their right to education? It is a shame, it is a shame that the Government of the Government of Catalonia does not guarantee the right to education of these young people. The university cannot be the epicenter of intolerance and fanaticism, in the university cannot reproduce if those shameful episodes that we have all experienced, that embarrass the vast majority of Catalans, think what they think, be they separatists or not separatists, the university is, I insist, to disseminate knowledge, not for a group of strikers to take justice by their hand. These episodes cannot be repeated, and the Government must take letters on the matter in order to avoid and ensure that the right to education can be exercised freely in Catalonia. Whoever wants to strike will do it, but respect it, because no right can prevail over another. There's the limit, that everyone can exercise their right. Obviously, students who want to exercise the right to education should do so. We need, we want, we aspire, that is, imagine what I say, we aspire to have a Catalan university free of intolerance – free of intolerance – and if I may also, with greater economic resources and obviously also with a reduction in rates that, by the way, were approved two years ago in this chamber and yet the Government has not complied with that motion that was approved in this chamber, with the support of all political parties, except those groups that support the Government. Therefore, they fulfill the students, they fulfill the faculty and, above all, they fulfil a democratic mandate that is to have a university free of intolerants and fanatics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.20.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, it's a turn for Congresswoman Alicia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.21.0	Thank you, President. I'll try to be very quick. Mrs. Espigares, I think you haven't listened to me again. Look, it's important for the dialect to listen to others, and you didn't, and then you talked about what you wanted, I don't know if I don't mean what you think about some issues. I'd like to know if you respect the right of manifestation, but you also respect the right to that which in freedom decides to go to class, or that which in freedom decides to take classes. I'd like to know if you agree with this, or if it seemed like the violence we've been living in some universities, at some point in time, and that this violence has deprived some students of access to their campuses. I'd like to know if you legitimize this, if this rape you legitimize, which is what the lady says. Because you're talking about the cloisters, but right here we're not talking about the cloisters. And the cloisters are democratic? Yeah. Can the cloisters approve resolutions? Yeah. Do you have to respect what the cloisters approve of? Yeah. Can we please have the cloisters approved? We can like it or we can't like it. But what I said was that the participation of the cloisters was under 50 percent, and what we would like is to have a debate in the classroom, a debate in the university, and not an imposition on the cloisters, with low participation, of a position that divides society. Haven't there been any better discussions among the students, between the faculty? This is what we say: the debate in front of the imposition that has lived in many of the university's spaces. Mr. Font said... he was talking about neutrality, wasn't he? That you're hard. I think... neutrality is called for at the universities. So, look, yesterday was November 25th, I don't know if we want the university to be neutral before male violence. I wouldn't want you to be neutral. But it's true that in some matters, so we have to be very strong and in others not, in those that are the majority. The subject of the judgment of the process divides society, and it is what we believe should not have been used... [[Funnel veils]] , yes, to use the university to use it in support of a cause that is not a majority. That's what we believe. And lastly, 2016 was a vote in favour of increasing university funding and reducing university fees, as Republican Left and Convergence and Union pushed them forward in 2012, so that they complement that resolution. If this is on the presuppositions of 2020, welcome, but the resolutions have always been approved here on the proposal of opposition groups...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.22.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.23.0	...and, in concrete terms, the Socialist Party. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.24.0	Thank you. We called for a vote. Mrs. Segovia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.25.0	Contradictions and request separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.26.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.27.0	It is to inform the Ciutadans group that they may not be aware that there were three videos of the Barcelona Assembly campaign, which probably only saw the last one. Tell them that as much as they're trying to invisible the masculinist rapes with a barricade on the tongue they won't get it. [[Widow's remorse.]] And ask them if they have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.28.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.29.0	...the same concern for the people who eat sausages, because on the first announcement the masclists are buying sausages, and they may think that this is also stigmatizing the consumers of sausages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.30.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] Is there a separate motion for a vote? Yeah? Mr. Aragonese, Mr. Serrano and Mr. Bertran. Mr. Aragonese, Serrano and Mr. Bertran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.31.0	Yes, thank you, President. To ask for separate vote, for a band of points 2 and 4, which can be combined, and for another band the point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.32.0	All right. Lord Serrano...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.33.0	President, to request a separate vote on items 3 and 5, which can be voted on together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.34.0	Mr. Bertran...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.35.0	I'm sorry, for allusions. I've seen all the spots. In this comment is spoken in Catalan. What we have denounced is a spot where, as has traditionally done nationalism, so, from the audiovisual to TV3, etc., there is a spot where the person who speaks castella is the potentially abusive and the person who speaks in catalá is the potentially defensive; there is no other spot where the person who speaks in castella is the potentially defensive and the person who speaks in catalá is the potentially aggressor. That's what we're reporting. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.36.0	Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.37.0	Yes; despite the storms, I will not ask for a reply. I wanted to ask for a separate vote on points 2, 3 and 4, which can be voted on jointly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.38.0	Yes, ma'am Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.39.0	We would ask you to separate all the points, because the groupings that have been mentioned until now are a problem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.40.0	So we'll vote for all the points separately. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 124 votes to 8, with no abstentions. And now we're voting point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 121 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 81 votes to 4, with 48 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 57 votes to 64, with 12 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 30 votes to 99, with 4 abstentions. And now we're voting for the number six, the number six, and the number six, and that's the last of this motion. The vote begins. The sixth point was approved by 69 votes to one, with 63 abstentions. Let's move on to the next point of the order of the day... Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.41.0	To explain the vote, we had an error in the vote on item 1 and the vote was in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.42.0	So say it. All right. Thank you. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the closure of universities imposed by violent]] [[302-00159/12]] All right. Let's go to the next item on the order of the day, therefore; the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the closure of the universities imposed for the violent, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word Mr Jorge Soler. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You're trying to be a congressman. [[Pause.]] When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.43.0	Well, very late. Thank you, Mr President; Members; Members; Public accompanying us; Councillors. Actually, I recognize that I would also very much like to greet, as always, the Honourable Councillor of Enterprise and University, and I would do so, therefore, as I always ask, basically because she is responsible for the subjects of the universities and, therefore, I would also like her to be present there. Why do those teachers who defend rights and freedoms return institutionally to this Parliament? Can you imagine the very honorable president of the Generalitat coming to those professors who defend the state of law in Palau? Well, I don't mean to be an acquittal, but I think it's obvious and known that neither university students for coexistence nor it's over! Neither young people for the Civil Society nor Aixeca't, nor the Teachers' Forum have been nor will they be institutionally rejected as we also believe they deserve. They think they'll come here to explain to you what's going on in universities over 50 percent of the claustral members who didn't go on the day of the famous vote that they legitimize like everything else in this Parliament? Do you think they'll do it for everyone they want? Or do they think everyone we don't have to do it? Will they be persistently silent? So no. They won't. As surely those pupils who cried out "we want to make class and were found before four, four covarids, four covarids with their faces covered, four who prevented them, the democrats, the students who – certainly – are paying the most expensive materials, to those..., prevented them, those four, they prevented them from accessing the university, with violence, with coercion, with insults. Are these the values you want to be representing today in this Parliament? The imposition of ideas over freedoms and the rights of the rest? There's enough – there's enough. Why does it have to be so you don't want to be an independentist? Does it have to be to be brave and defend the right simply to do or enter the class? Look, from here, once more, as many times I think I have done already, thank you; thank you to the brave, to the brave that you defend the rights and freedoms of all; thank you very much for doing so, and from here, while I am speaking in this scot, my gratitude, thank you for all of you. [[Greetings.]] Because I do, because I want to talk, naturally, also freedom at the university. Because freedom is an indispensable right, but right now it is a violated right, violated as a right of speech, especially respecting, because they are not respecting either the freedom of the chair or the university autonomy by jumping the rights. And I'll explain, because you just explain or get used to explaining one part of Catalonia but not the other, which you don't see. At the university, there are deputies and deputies, because there is a threat, there is a coercion, because there is a insult, because there is a picket, because there is a danger; and yes, because there is a blackmail, also because there is a lack of security. And that is why – yes, I answer it, MP – as is also the case..., private and public security must guarantee the rights and freedoms of all Catalans, as well as those you do not see. As the Mossos must also ensure that there are no violations of the campaign in front of the university. Yes, honourable Member, the Squad Mousses also have to do this. [[Greetings.]] Why have they wondered how these teachers and students feel about, deputies and deputies, because you don't want a free university, you want it politicized? They want it politicized and independent, and that's why they look at it from another side, surely knowing there's a reason and there's a rape on campus. And because the Catalan universities know that they have to give in to the chanting, to the press, approving manifestos against democracy and the state of law, approving them knowing how they know that the Central Electoral Board has already confirmed that the rectors have violated the law. Maybe someone will be good and explain what their pressure measure was because all this is done so quickly? Will anyone explain to us whether the assumptions have also had anything to do with..., the own assumptions in this song? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.44.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to defend the papers presented, the deputy Alicia Romero, of the Socialists Group and Units for Progress, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.45.0	Thank you, President. Well, the question made by the Ciutadans Group was either going to or at least trying to deal with a subject similar to what we had previously dealt with. It is true that we can give support in a few points, but in others, no. Among other things, because we like to be strict and especially respectful, and university has a basic principle that is the principle of university autonomy, and we can't tell the rector what to do and we can't ask the security staff to go on campus unless it's the rector who asks and authorizes it. And if everyone, in a sense, if we are mature and have mature democracy, institutions like universities are also mature and, therefore, we must give this respect, this freedom to the rectors to act accordingly. In fact, in the past, we have put a point that has not been approved in which we asked the government to put the instruments at the top of the rectors because they guarantee these rights. This point has not been approved; it is the most respect that there was. That is to say, put the instruments so that the rectors use them at those times that they consider necessary always to respect the right of demonstration and protest or the right to study. It hasn't been approved, I hope you don't approve of the point at which you order security things that go to college campus when there are threats or coercions. We believe that this principle of university autonomy must be respected, and we cannot agree with this intrusion that you, too often, are making on this constitutional principle. We made a statement at point 4. To us it seems that point 4 you write it sometimes in a massive way colloquial, we could say. First, because when they talk about student assessments, they're not regulated by law; instead, they say what student assessments should be like. When Bolonya was approved the higher European education system was established the continuous evaluation; the continuous evaluation already know that it is throughout the course. At the beginning of the course there is a period that normally the faculties establish because that student is able to collate to another system that can be that of the final evaluation, and is given a few terms. And, from here, each school decides according to its needs. Each faculty, each center is the one that decides who it is and how it organizes, how concrete this evaluation is. That's it. And obviously there have to be objective criteria, known, to decide how the evaluation is done. It cannot be changed, obviously, arbitrarily. In this we agree, but it is certain that you use a language that we cannot share, first, because it is not regulated by law and then because we understand that, capriciously, depending on the interests on the part is not to change the assessments; it is to give..., it is to respect little the university. What we have to say is that the evaluations must be known to the core of the course, which are the rules of the game, each student must be able to know what is happening and, in any case, if they are modified, they must always be within the regulation that marks that faculty that has autonomy to decide it. You didn't accept this, and we don't understand why. Sometimes you have the feeling that Ciutadans is already fine with pym-pam-pum, isn't it? , is to say, against each other; white/ black. So for the most part, sometimes things are greyer and we don't understand how this theme seems to us much more accurate to reality, so you didn't accept it. But, well, it's the same; I'm not going to value why you do one thing or another, right? Just like point five. He also talks about the entrances to the materials, but we don't know much at what point you say that the materials can be returned or not. We imagine it's for those students who say they're coming back if they can't develop their activity. But, frankly, we don't get along either, and so we can share a part of his speech, because we believe that all the rights must be preserved, that we must give the instruments to the universities and the rectors so that they can guarantee them, it is also true that we believe that we must respect the principle of university autonomy and, above all, that the university was a space of dialogue and reflection, and not of imposition either for violence or, many times, for other reasons. In any case, we may vote in favour of it, but in a few others, the majority, so we cannot be at your side in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.46.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix his position has the word the deputy Lucas Ferro, from Catalonia to Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.47.0	Thank you very much, President. Today Citizens, well, brings us a motion about the weeks of vagrancy and conflict we've seen in universities, basically with the same logic of everything that has been done by Citizens these past few months. I think that, in view of the election results, you could try to change strategy, which is: I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I see a conflict, I believe, I believe, I believe, I am there, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am going, I am, I am, I am, I am You basically ask, in this debate on universities, three things: that we condemn student mobilizations; that the rectors refrain from any measure of mediation and apostinum to bring the anti-disturbing directly into the university campus; and that they demand that you coerce the right to protest in universities. And, of course, making such an arsonist opposition is easy, but governing would have to be a little more complicated; it would have to be learning how to manage a society where conflicts occur, where there has been tension and where we can manage them and approach them by preserving their fundamental rights. And it should also be to stop scavenging at every image of tension we see on television and to stop throwing gas cans at it, and to assume that one always goes with a part of the conflict, and that it can legitimize itself until the end, and that this part can go before the exercise of phone rights in this country. I believe that the response from the institutions in unpleasant situations as we have experienced these weeks should be a response especially in three directions. The first is to guarantee the right to protest and mobilization, and it is precisely in protests that we do not share or in protests that we do not identify ourselves politically in the value of going out and defending the exercise of the right to protest or protest. One_second I think it's obvious, that institutions need to regain their ability to listen to civil society in this country. Democracy does not end or begin in this Parliament or in the Palau de la Generalitat; democracy belongs to it at the conjunction of the citizenry, which are also political actors, as student unions, as the Catalan Civil Society, as it is finished! or the Union of Students of the Catalan Countries and the AEP; it is all legitimate sectors of this society that have political demands that we should be able to listen to all. And, third, to give a political response from the institutions that allows to channel the conflict that is living in the street. And the political response cannot be to transform these institutions or universities into a bunker; the political response cannot always be the same: more police to the universities, anti-disturbing to the classes, that students who have participated in the mobilizations, etc. are expelled. This, in the best of cases, will only deepen the representational crisis that this country sees, and, for another group, will violate fundamental rights, such as the right to study at a public university to which it has protested during these days at universities. And I think that the political challenge before those who always had the same reception, which is harder and a gas can, is to be able to build an institutional response to the height of the tension he saw today in Catalonia. And before what we have experienced in universities, our proposal has to do with the defence of two fundamental rights – before I made a reference. The first, the fundamental right to mobilization and protest. Students do not have a right to go, students are university students, but their academic achievements are based on and are based on a right that is fundamental to our Constitution, and which must be respected and which must be able to exercise without reprisals, academics, nor legal, nor much less criminal. And this means a very simple thing: in the same way that a worker cannot be deprived of his rights for a day, nor can he be taken in, nor punished, a student cannot be punished, nor can he have harmful consequences for his résumé having participated in a stature, in a statured academic. And, therefore, the standards of assessment are not only not armored by law, but must be flexible, they must be able to adapt to a fundamental right. Because his obsession with the youth is that students are expelled from the universities, he says a lot of you, but since they are constitutionalists, they should know that their right to enjoy the expulsion of students from public universities is not in their constitution; what is in the Spanish Constitution is the right to mobilization and protest. And the second – and with this I'm done – is the one that has to do with university autonomy. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We do not ask the Rectors to expel anyone or to carry and militarize university campuses, the only thing we ask of them is that, in exercising their university autonomy, they do mediation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.48.0	Ahabi, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.49.0	...and of the dialog the guarantee that they can mobilize and stop students when the students think it appropriate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.50.0	Ahabi, Congressman!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.51.0	...and that doesn't hurt you, even the students. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.52.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the turn of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.53.0	Thank you, Vice President. To intervene from the escó. So point a point. First point of the motion: "Condemns unreservedly the occupations of university campuses. Is it true that the only answer you have for the exercise of which is also a right of speech is repressive action? According to point: "From the academic order necessary to carry out normally the academic activity of the students. Is it true that there is no such thing as an act that does not go to undermine those who exercise a right of speech as may be the right of assembly, the right of demonstration or the right of vagation, even though technically it is not the right of the students to exercise? Third point: "Order the Corps of Mossos d'Esquadra to enter the university campus every time there are threats or serious paralysis of academic life. Is it true that you, with a threat and a right-of-the-way exercise, are asking that the Squad Moissons enter a university campus? Obviously, this is contrary to university autonomy. Point four: "Declares that the evaluation standards of university students are regulated by law. Let us ask ourselves, if they really are regulated by law; what you know perfectly, as we do, is that university autonomy allows us to establish other elements in order to be able to assess, which is what we understand to be the day of today's universities. That's five... and we don't even really hear what they want to do with the statement of undue entrances. And point sisè: "Reprove to Councilwoman Maria Àngels Chacón for her inaction. He cannot act; there is university autonomy. Look, you've talked, in your presentation, about a lot of two issues: rape and por. Do they know what rape is or what violence is? Violent is seeing thousands of working-class children being expelled from college for economic reasons. That's rape, maximum rape. You know, too, what's the point? Because it's thinking of a state like the Spanish State that before the exercise of phonenal rights sends people to prison, ours and our political prisoners, our exiles and exiles, of which we never forget. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.54.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.55.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, very briefly, obviously move our support to the motion and make two points and one recognition. The first point is for Mrs Romero, who brings confusion. How can rectors be told nothing? I mean, what are they? Leaders? Prophets of the sacred truth? Rectors are subject to scrutiny by public opinion, in democracy, like any neighbor's son. And, therefore, you can perfectly explain to them the opinion about what they do and stop doing. In fact, they can be explained the limits of the principle of university autonomy, which actually exists, but it also has limits: in the face of a situation of flagrant insecurity, the Mossos d'Esquadra not only do not have to ask the rector for authorization; if the university's security services do not guarantee the rights and freedoms of the students, they must act immediately. Therefore, that is a limit to university autonomy. Second question – point out; it is no longer dedicated to Mrs Romero. Look, historically the students who were on strike fought against rectors and the established power, less here; here they fight with the government in favor and with the rectors in favour, which is the least rebellious thing in the world. Because, of course, every strike, in any sphere of life, always involves a renunciation. In fact, the moral strength of a striker lies in the sacrifice and courage with which he carries out that strike activity. Not here; here is that not only does he not make a sacrifice, but the rector offers to approve them by patilla, above making strike. That's the summary of the little sacrifice. And third question. Look, of course, you equate the right to strike with violence in an absolutely immoral way, and whether you like it or not, we will never accept it. And that's why when I was talking about a final recognition, I transfer it and I have it for me that when you talk from here to many years about what happened in these years in Catalonia, you will find a point of inflection, a point of inflection when brave young people, in an absolutely spontaneous way, said "suffa, faced the hooded organized and in a way, I insist, heroic, risking their own physical integrity, said "suffa. They are our example, our moral guide, and they will always be present in our political action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.56.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mrs Rut Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.57.0	Thank you, President. Montserrat Roig, year 76, in the book The Time of Waxes, already defined the struggle of university movements to achieve a democratic representation; narrated and defined the lives of students of the sixties, young people who decided to plant in front of the repression of an authoritarian regime that violated social and political rights, young people who used the streets to manifest themselves and to protest knowing that they would take the price of police abuses and arbitrary detentions. What happened fifty-sixty years ago is the same thing that's happening now: students and students who don't look at another band before a political conflict, but they put their face on it. But what happens to you is that you have always decided to be on the side of those who oppress and never wanted to analyze why social movements, students and university students. You prefer to criminalize and label extremists and radicals who are mobilizing; you prefer to signify and make a media boom than at the end of the day, you don't bring them anywhere, but badly to make the ultrathreat grow even more. Universities are the institutions of critical thinking and the transmission of knowledge. That is why there are many transformative and transgressive universities and universities, universities that do not stop during the war in Iraq and that demand the stake, that do not stop to demand the reduction of taxes, that do not stop to demand that the planet is not destroyed and that do not stop before the violation of social and political rights and to demand the liberation and return of all reprisals and reprisals. But it seems that you don't want to be aware that student struggles don't only exist here, but they do exist. There are many cities that your students claim to be those rights that are being violated. And it is that the consequence of the economic crisis and the interests of the capitalist system, therefore, have brought young people to this spiral of precariousness and that it does not ensure a stable future. That is why it is through the protest that they demand a worthy future. And this future goes through a democratic system where justice, rights and freedoms are not violated. This is why the world, and not only in Catalonia, students are on the front line facing those rights that want to be receded and those freedoms, so as to claim this justice. But you only remember the freedom of speech when you can use it to attack, insult, or oppress. That is why I think it is appropriate for them to remember the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which says that everyone has the right to freedom of thought and expression, that everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression. And this article of the Universal Declaration uses the free exercise of being able to make a truce on Twitter, to debate in an institution, to expose works of art, to pin posters and to express chants in a demonstration, already university, student, union or independenceist, and the same way that the right to protest is legitimate, to hold classrooms and to express where a collective wants to announce, just as the right to freedom of association and of tenure, where the legitimate interests are defended, and the free exercise of belonging there or not, because the rights, as it was before, are always respected. But you don't like the waves, the mobilizations, or the young people expressing themselves in freedom, and that's why they're being raped, criminalized, and if they can, they'll also ban it, because they don't want to listen to what they don't like to hear, and in terms of respecting it, so try to silence it. But before this right-wing violation, the university students will continue to enclose classrooms and fill the campuses with dignity. Because I can hear the import of the right to protest and freedom of expression as a response to the need for a whole collection. That's why they'll never find us in police persecution, arbitrary arrests, censorship mechanisms, or the prohibition of freedom of speech. We will always defend universities as an untouchable space for debate and learning. And the solution has never been or will the police enter campus and college. We saw the 99 when Aznar suppressed the protest to the Autonomous at once; we see when the police in Hong Kong stormed the Polytechnic University to silence and chase the Protestants. You are the backbone of authoritarianism: tightening society, criminalising protests and police repression. And in this democratic retreat, we will never be able to find ourselves there; hence, from here to demand and demand that we criminalize young people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.58.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Congresswoman Anna Geli.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.59.0	President, deputies, deputies, councillors, councillors... good afternoon to everyone. That reality never gives you a good fiction. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, you would be furious at the world of cinema: it is fixed that, another time, in this motion the word "violation" already comes out and all to the preliminary title. Violence, rape and violence, to see if they all convince someone that this violence really exists. But, look, the reality doesn't change any more than you want to alter the story. I'm sure any film school would want them like fiction film guide teachers. Before anything else, the advance we will reject both the available part of the motion and the rest of the points proposed. And we will do so because it seems to us that another time they use any excuse or opportunity they have to talk about violence, hoods, threats, intimidation, destruction, crimes... And not only that, they also take advantage of failing some member of the Government, if not, as usual, the proper President of the Generality. In this case, the Grossa de Nadal, now above, has touched the Constellera Chacón; today it has touched the Constellera Chacón. I insist, this is like Nadal's big girl in the years she falls and falls a lot. Don't you think of perversion: you don't ask why students decide to wander or revolt or lock themselves in college? You are not asking why all the public universities in Catalonia, I repeat, all the public universities in Catalonia have signed a joint manifesto of rebuttal of the condemnations of Catalan political prisoners and of the judicialization of politics? You, as always, take the rave for the filles, caricature some winged parties, raise them to the absolute category and go for it. From this, populism goes: the perverse reduction of speech because in one hundred and forty characters have a good headline. Certainly, there will be as many teachers as students who may disagree with the manifesto, but this is an adult democracy, it works with votes and the majority and minority game. You cannot be sure that the clauses of the Catalan public universities representing a community of more than 200,000 people voted overwhelmingly in favour of a manifesto, which did not even have the decency to stand in this House. And not only that, you say that they are the defenders, in addition, of legality – legality – but it turns out that in this young man they want the Mossos d'Esquadra to enter into campuses without the permission of the rector, skipping the elementary principle of autonomy of university centers. Gentlemen of Ciutadans, this is a red line that we will never cross, and if they want to defend universities and universities, they work for the transfer of scholarships to Catalonia, for example. Nor do I like to find myself stunned on the roads day after day, nor without taxis in the first hour of the morning, without a subway, without a train, or with a col·lapse at the airport, but I assure you that I prefer this to live in a state where the discrepancy is interpreted as dissent and dissent as pre-sedition. The wave of students is a consequence of the political dysfunction that it represents not being able to talk about how to channel the will of 2_million Catalans or more than 2_million Catalans and Catalans who feel represented with the principles that both well create these weeks our university communities: freedom, democracy, justice, equality, solidarity and above all the inn in immediate freedom of political prisoners and the return of exiles. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.60.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the name of the parliamentary group proposing and in order to rule on the issues, Mr Jorge Soler has the new word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.61.0	Well, thank you again. I think it has become clear to everyone that someone has not even been able to look at, read or see the previous inquiry. Well, first words to the equidistant: when there is, when there is for and chanting, people are not free. Therefore, the equidistants, if you want to defend as we do university autonomy, defend freedom. Thank you. A short bet. We did not accept the theme of the evaluation – the reasons are multiple, some were in the inquiry –: it is not normal to change the evaluation rules to the middle of the course. I thought those of you who were defending this also had some experience in university management, because everyone knows – I think he was pale in the question – what to do to change these ways, which obviously has skipped. And he skipped because he's not eligible to make lists of independentists who go to demonstrations, because it generates inequalities. Because I think you know that you already have an administered content in the table because it's a right-wing countermeasure, because it violates academic regulations; because it obviously serves to position those teachers and students politically; because it's a partisan measure that allows students to link with certain ideological profiles. And, therefore, this is absolutely unacceptable, it is not an academic measure; it is political. It is clear, Members and Members, that some have ideological blindness that prevents them from recognizing more than 50 percent of Catalans. They do so insistently and for this reason, even you are not worthy to write a few small papers; you do not see this half. As I say, the councillor can act, it's obvious, she's the university councillor. Just as you could come to this Parliament at least, but it's exactly the same thing: you don't even see the deputy who's talking about the opposition. In any case, in conclusion, you know that Gaziel said in 1931: "The centre of moral balance, both in the individual and in the collectivities, is the freedom guaranteed by the law. You know that everything else is the jungle, it's a saving amalgam, without reason, where the rights and freedoms are trampled. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.62.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Pause.]] Is there a separate motion for a vote on this item? Yeah. - No, no, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me, in this young man? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.63.0	For one band, the 3 and the 6 that can go together, and for the other, the 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.64.0	The 3 and 6 of one band; the 1 of the other. Are there any more petitions? [[Pause.]] So we vote first place point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 76 against and no abstentions. We now vote on points 3 and 6–3 and 6. The vote begins. Points 3 and 6 were rejected by 40 votes in favour, 93 against and no abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 40 votes to 76, with 17 abstentions. [[Motion for a resolution in response to the Supreme Court's ruling on the events of October 1st]] [[302-00159/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution responding to the Supreme Court's ruling on the events of October 1st. This motion for a resolution has been presented jointly for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Cree, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. Therefore, to present this initiative, in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.65.0	Thank you, President. Thank you all. In the first place I wanted to express that we accept all the points that have been made by the groups, absolutely all of them, and therefore that we would incorporate them for voting. And he wanted to state, first of all, with regard to what we are discussing today or what we are discussing this late, the Supreme Court's ruling, notified on October 14, 2019, is the answer that the Spanish state apparatus gives to the political conflict that we are living in the Principality of Catalonia. The independence movement has tried and managed to resolve this political conflict, even though it has failed to resolve its totality, but yes, the current phase, through an exercise of fundamental rights: first, the exercise that was supposed to vote, voting as we did on October 1. And the Spanish state the only answer that has been able to do today is repression. Independence – and we will reiterate this issue because we think it is fundamental – has exercised fundamental rights; exercise of fundamental rights that is plasma in political freedom. Political freedom when a referendum was organized. It was hard to resist when we talk about democracy if what we're talking about is that the people can vote. An expression of ideological freedom and freedom of expression that our Speaker of Parliament has always had a hard time in this house, which was to allow it to be possible not only to speak, but to vote all that the majority considered to be possible to speak and to vote. And the exercise of the right of assembly and demonstration that has made the majority of the people of Catalonia during the past years: since 2010, mobilizations, practically unprecedented in the current context; in Western Europe, and we would dare to even speak at the conjunction of the planet, we have hardly seen this form of right, this realization of rights as that of assembly and manifestation with such a high participation of the assembly of people, in this case, of our country. And before that, as they can't undertake more than 2 million people, what they do or what they do is retaliate to the maximum or maximum representatives of the independence movement. Still some will have to see the feeling that they have neither the ability to identify who was the teaching counselor of Catalonia. That's what we have in mind. An authentic saved which means this feeling. But even if you come to explain to us how it is possible to convict the two highest representatives of the independent entities for the sole purpose of pushing a Civil Guard vehicle. His answer, the response of the Spanish State before the exercise of fundamental rights, is prison. And we wouldn't want to forget about one of our companies and our companies in exile. A corrupt rule has led them away from loved ones, from their political life, from their daily lives, from power to even seeing their birth or death. Yes, we are very clear that neither arrest nor exile will ever lose their ability to fight for their ideas or lose their ability to estimate. With this there is no prison that can end it; by the strength that you have when you have the ability and the potential to estimate and by the strength that you have the ideas, there is no prison that holds you. [[Greetings.]] We also want to be self-critical, and now we are not talking about criticism of the government, but self-critical about our own organisation, about this parliamentary subgroup, about this independence organization in this Parliament, about what we have not done or done badly. We want to acknowledge that we have not been at the height of what the repressive action of the Spanish State was calling for, and that we have not been able to gather what the road was giving us and what is still telling us the road, in the combination of daily mobilizations that we have. We have the opportune reflection on why we are two years old without a strategy that can be expected to advance nationally in the construction of the republic. Perhaps we need to resolve another question, which is whether the centrality of the independence movement should be in this institution, that of the Parliament of Catalonia, or not. We, in a very humble way, do want to convey that we think that at the present stage, the centrality of the construction of the republic will not go through this institution. But we see where it won't lead us not to draw and fix prospects to continue advancing nationally. And this, for us, goes through two proposals: one, to build own institutionality, and another, to build sovereignty; institution itself as a _marc that can be a real alternative to the blindness of this Parliament, and in this sense to ask the assembly of independent and sovereignist forces..., all those social laws that we want to do and that are not possible because the Constitutional Court does not allow us to do so, they suspect and annul the fact that it has a minimum appearance of progressive laws. But we are also talking about the need for sovereignty, and we are also questioning the group mix, not only did you become independent but also sovereignists; sovereignty understood as a material realm where we are the holders of our resources. Does anyone think we can have a state someday if we don't manage electricity, water, transport, telecommunications? Really, someone, honestly, you think so? We are very clear about this: it is not possible. And these two elements, the building of sovereignty and the building of an alternative institutionality, must go hand in hand with the constant mobilization of masses; we started everything as we solved it. It is possible that there are companies and companies that are now asking themselves: "But what relationship does this have with the answer to the sentence? So, for us it has an absolute relationship: until we advance nationally we cannot end the repression of the Spanish State. The view from another point of view: until we have this perspective to build a republic there will be no cessation of the repressive action of the Spanish State. And lastly, also for what it does to the intervention that the Constitutional Court wanted to hold in the present motion for a resolution. We have been partially suspended from item 11 of this motion for a resolution. They didn't want us to talk about sovereignty and self-determination? So, look, all of this group's intervention so far has been about sovereignty and self-determination. But they didn't want us to talk about monarchy either. And we say to the Constitutional Court: "They will never achieve this. They can do to us what they want, that it will never be them and they will determine what we are talking about or what we are not talking about. [[Greetings.]] And we give them, if they don't want us to talk about monarchy, the next answer. The restoration or establishment of the current Spanish monarchy finds its origin in a totalitarian regime, in a regime that was built on the basis of thousands of deaths, repression, exile, political persecution. Obviously, we're talking about the franchise. It was the Law of Succession at the head of the State of 1947 that established that the dictator Franco would dictate who would be his successor as head of state and who would do so through the form of king or regency. It was also Mr. Juan Carlos de Borbón, on November 22, 1975, who swore the principles of the National Movement and who kept it loyal. [[Greetings.]] This supposed democrat, he was the one who did it on November 22, 1975. And even so it was necessary to recognize Adolfo Suárez that they could not have a reference of monarchy and republic because they would lose him, and to avoid this they did a whole in which they presented the Constitution with a perspective that: either you vote this or you don't have rights. After that, a recognition of the head of state, to the monarchs, as inviolable and without being subject to responsibility. This has provoked all of the Royal House's negotiations and recognitions to Middle Eastern dictators already. These are supposed democrats. And this is also the trajectory that the new Spanish monarch continued on October 3rd, coming out by television as the most representative of what they are, which is the "unit of Spain", and speaking of broken and confronted Catalan society. False! Who went to break the Catalan society was the phone caller to the big companies because he left this country. This was the performance of the current monarch of the Kingdom of Spain. And, lastly, a message for him, for the Spanish monarchy: not only will we become a republic, but the beginning of the Catalan republic will be the end of the Spanish monarchy. Visit the republic, free political prisoners and political press, and return from exile! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.66.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Congresswoman Marta Vilalta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.67.0	It's very late, and it's all gone. Thank you very much, President. To be able to debate a motion for a resolution, a motion for a resolution that wants to be the answer in the form of political positioning of the Parliament of Catalonia to the unjust, unjustified and unjustifiable judgment of the Supreme Court to the independent leaders in relation to the facts of the First of October. This motion for a resolution, therefore, forms part of the comprehensive and joint response that we wanted to make as an independent movement, but not just as an independent movement, but rather as a response that we wanted to do and that we needed to do and that we thought we needed to make as democrats and as defenders of the most fundamental rights; a response that had different levels and various dimensions at the social level, and on the road we saw impressive mobilizations such as freedom marches, as the day of general and country-endurance; we saw the institutional level of response at the international level, and we saw and would follow the level of response in the legal dimension. Well, at the institutional level, and on the line of which the Government also approved in its October 22 government agreement, also on the line of which the assemblies and the local authorities approved through the same motion which was approved in more than eight hundred locals in the country, as well as the celebration of elected officials, in this same line, we are bringing today to debate and vote on this motion for a resolution. Because even though they don't like us and want us to be censored, with this motion for a resolution we say no to the sentence. And let some tell us that we have to respect judicial decisions, which we can't put in these judicial decisions, because what we can't afford is that when the courts are political..., our job, therefore, is to denounce it. Just like when policies stop doing their jobs and just go to court for political conflicts; what we have to do is report it. Even though they don't like us and want us to be censored, today with this motion for a resolution we give freedom to prisoners and political prisoners, freedom from exiles and repression. Even though they want to censor us and do not like them, today, with this motion for a resolution, we say that the State is in an authoritarian drift that does not only affect the independenceists but also all the democrats. Even though they don't like us and want to censor us, today we say that it's a scandal for the president of this Parliament, Carme Forcadell, to have permission to talk about everything, a disgrace and a democratic scandal. [[Greetings.]] Even though we don't like them and want to blame ourselves, today we say that the independence movement is civic and not violent, and we have shown it to be so many times. With this motion for a resolution, even though they don't like it and want to blame us, we say that condemning the protest by sedition establishes an unacceptable precedent that will be able to pursue many mobilizations. Even though they don't like us and they want to censor us, today we denounce that the State is criminalizing political dissent and persecuting, even with prison sentences, dissent or those exercising freedom of expression. Do they sound like you? Rapers, titulars... so that's it. Even though they don't like us and want to blame us, today we say that the conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State is of natural political nature, and therefore it will never be possible to settle in court. And it's time to start hearing that there's no problem of coexistence or no problem of violence, here's a political conflict that has to be resolved politically. Even though they don't like them and they want to censor us, today we say that the Constitutional Court imposes a censor on the Parliament of Catalonia. And even though we don't like them and want to censor ourselves, today we claim the rights of all Members to debate everything, including the right to self-determination, monarchy and sovereignty. And that is why, in this motion for a resolution and through the papers, we reiterate the reprobation of the monarchy, reiterate the defence of the right to self-determination in Catalonia and reiterate the claim of the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia to decide our future political collection. Even though they don't like them and want to censure us, today, in which autonomous competitions can never define the limits that can be spoken of in this Parliament. Look, you can talk about Kurdistan, but not about the right to Catalonia's self-determination; you can talk about the climate, but not about the Spanish monarchy; you can talk about how we give out to the gathering of refugees, but not about the future we want as the people. Even though we do not like them and want to censure ourselves, we have remembered that this Parliament has very often approved political resolutions on the right to self-determination. In fact, since 1989 that political resolutions have been adopted in this Parliament, without that there has never been a problem with either a motion of censure or a motion of persecution until now, until this conflict has been brought to justice, which, I repeat, is political. And that's why we'll keep talking about everything, even though they want to blame us, as we've done since 1989. Even though they don't like us and want us to be censored, today we say that there are many parliaments in the Spanish State that stand on political issues that are not their competitions. In fact, some – without going any further, the Madrid Assembly – stand on Catalonia and even call for the illegalization of the Catalan independence parties. And finally, it is forbidden for them to talk about this, unfortunately, obviously, that we don't like people and that we condemn them, that we ask them to talk about everything, to defend everything they want, and that we here can also talk about everything and defend everything we want, because that means freedom of expression, and if not in parliaments, we must have and we must be able to guarantee this freedom of expression. Even though they do not like and want to blame us, today we also urge the Government to promote the political, social and institutional initiatives that are needed in all areas – national, state and international – to achieve a democratic solution to the conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State. All this, all that they would not want to approve, that they would want to censor us, is what we will vote on today and what we will approve, unfortunately, as has already been mentioned, that the Constitutional Court, a few days after submitting this motion for a resolution, re-entered the scene detailing and censoring part of point 11 of this motion for a resolution. Paraphrased by Ovidi Montllor, there are people who do not like to be spoken, written or thought of self-determination, it is the same people who do not like to be spoken, written or thought of. It is for this reason, before this action by the courts, that we cannot act as if, and for this reason we have entered some papers – some papers, both the CUP Group, and Juntes per Catalunya, and Esquerra Republicana – which go on the line..., which we would have liked to be able to do together, but the important thing is that they share the content, and therefore from here, we assume these papers, we will vote for them all in favour and we want them to be incorporated into the defined text of the motion, because we cannot accept, and for this reason we have presented these papers, we cannot accept that the Constitutional Court dictates or excludes what the Parliament can say or debate, and because we want to give support to the members of the Bureau before this persecution. And it is that the Bureau, the Bureau of Parliament, did what it had to do, what it had to do: a strong table that must continue to feel it and that it must be able to let talk about everything. And that's why from here, so let's give thanks as well..., or I'd like to be able to give thanks both to Roger, as to Josep, as to Eusebi, as to Adriana, and now also, in advance, to Ruth, to do what a parliament has to do: let it be able to talk about everything and not become the censor organ that the Constitutional Court would want it to be this Parliament. That's why we also know..., or it's all folded up, because of this context in which we live, that PR, this motion for a resolution, is not the solution or will not be the solution to the political situation that we live in, but we do believe, and believe, that it is a step further and a necessary step; to highlight this unity of action at this difficult time that has followed the feeling, and in this flap of rights and freedoms, we believe that this proposal for a resolution is important, to make it clear that repression will never be a solution and to reiterate once again the freedom of prisoners and political pressure, the return of exiles and the fictitiousness of repression. He said it wouldn't be the solution to anything. The answer to the sentence does not begin or end in this motion for a resolution. Our action went further. But from now on we must be able to say that it is time to open a political, democratic and non-repressive path. A democratic solution that we understand we now have the opportunity to follow and build. An opportunity that we believe can be transformed, that can be translated into the creation of a _negotiation table with these four pots that support it – that it is between the same, that it is without conditions and therefore it is possible to talk about everything, with a preset calendar and with guarantees of compliment. A _negotiation table that we want to put in the country's service to build this democratic solution that until now the Spanish State has denied us. It's time to learn and talk, it's time for sit and talk, which we've also been asked from the street. A _negotiation table to start building this democratic solution that the country needs. The same time we know and talk, and we build this path, this political solution, we have to stay strong on the street, mobilized, make ourselves feel, feel participants, we have to stay strong on the institutions and also on the international level. We have to be and be all the time. Today, at Oriol Junqueras, Raül Romeva, Quim Forn, Dolors Bassa, Carme Forcadell, Jordi Turull, Josep Rull, Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart, women that the chamber of which many of them have formed part make a recognition in the form of dignity, and women all folded a compromise before the injustice of the feeling, our collective force to fall it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.68.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.69.0	It's over, President. Because feeling isn't the end of anything, it's a new principle of everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.70.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Junts Per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, it is the turn of Congresswoman Elsa Artadi. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.71.0	President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies and Chamber Deputies, today forty-four days from the Supreme's judgment to the reference of the First of October. A 14th of October that seems to us today that is far away and, at last, may seem strange that today we are debating the answer to the feeling in this hemisphere. And that's because some, during these forty-four days, have wanted to talk about anything but the feeling of shame. And that's why we've been seeing arrests, permanent threats, police charges, insults and less to the Catalan institutions, banalization of terrorism, threatening third countries, assuming control of the prosecution, more police abuses, trial against President Torra to defend freedom of expression, nine charges, videos of Global Spain that carve out political prisoners, charges of rape... all in an attempt to extend it. To try not to talk about what matters, to have fun so that we don't think and not denounce a feeling of shame. To the point of not being political. Just so you don't have to have the height and the sense of state. Still to avoid courage and courage, the will to solve a political problem, a political conflict that has been going on for a long time. Despite the fact that a Constitutional Court wants to censor this chamber, today we are talking about the sentence. A feeling that it's earthling at the human level. Hundred years in prison for our companies and our companies – also for your companies and your companies. For the members of the legitimate government of Catalonia, for the legitimate president of this Parliament, for the leaders of civil entities. A feeling that she's an authentic revenge on innocent men and women, that she's looking for a murder-like sentence. Today, I would ask the companies and the companies to intervene in this hemisphere, a little more humanity, a little more empathy and a little more understanding, which, unfortunately, we have not always found in this hemisphere. Because it started dehumanizing the political opponent and it ended up turning him into a terrorist, a rebel, and a sedition. A feeling that, rather than being a human landing, is even more democratic and social, because for the first time, members of the Government and members of this Parliament democratically chosen for the citizenry have been engaged in political decisions. They are political prisoners because their crimes are political, derived from their political activity and opposition to the Government of the State. Never was a rebel born in a parliament. There has not been a sentence against twelve people, but against more than two million Catalans that we made possible the reference of October. Nothing is more important to Spain than its unity, and that is why we have a justice that is more Spanish than not justice. And, finally, this feeling retails the fundamental rights of all the citizens, of all the entities and of all the social movements, because from then on, from the feeling of October 14, any protest, any manifestation, any concentration and any non-violent action can be accused of sedition. A constitution that has become the enemy of political dissent and a feeling that gives white paper to the State, to repression, comes from where to come and against whom to convince. Look back, please, all of you, and see how many fights for the rights on October 14 were left on Wednesday and threatened. Does any of you want to build a country in those terms? Many international voices, not just ours, have risen. I'll only make it out of one, Amnesty International. Today, 770 days after the arrest of Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez, they are the two only citizens of the European Union for whom Amnesty International calls for their immediate release, the only. [[Greetings.]] That you're making everyone think. We live in a state that is beginning to be governed by the courts, to which it derives a political problem that the politicians have only made it bigger. And we ask ourselves, while you judge politics, where are the Spanish policies? Where are those who claim to rule the state government? Where is Pedro Sánchez who said in 2016 that, if he became president, the first one he would do would be to call President Puigdemont to build bridges? Where is he when he doesn't answer the phone calls to President Torra? Is there nothing to talk about? You don't have anything to argue about? This is the level of your dialog. Where is Pedro Sánchez who after the U of October disagreed... and demanded responsibilities for police charges? Where is Mr. Miquel Iceta – we see that he is not here in the Chamber – who said that the report on independence must be able to make and, in fact, to advanced democracies, such as Spanish, the Penal Code applies to advanced democracies. What happened to you, defending these rights to end up demonstrating with the ultrathreat, attacking linguistic immersion and public communication services and media? Is it worth four votes from Ciutadans? [[Greetings.]] It really costs a lot to find differences between the government of the PP and the government of the socialists, between the government of Mariano Rajoy and the government of Pedro Sánchez. Unfortunately, from Junts to Catalonia, we believe that today, including in a scene where there have been political prisoners, political prisoners, exiles and exiles, the dialog is still possible, but this dialog is incompatible with repression, because the state violence, which you are applying, must not be left to the word. The word all the way, also in this hemisphere, in this hemisphere where Pedro Sánchez is determined to continue to censor the word, to continue to erase the word through a reform of the Constitutional Court that promoted the People's Party in 2015, and that the socialists then were against it, because you considered it to be an unjustifiable interference in the autonomous chambers. Then you criticized him, and now you take advantage of him. A reform of the Constitutional Court that converts him into a penal chamber to pursue those policies that think different, because it is a reform of the Constitution that he had, and he continues to have, as the only objective to put up with the Catalan independence movement. It is not intended to be spoken of in this hemisphere of those themes that bother the Spanish State, when on the street the consensus is absolute; it is absolute for political solutions, it is absolute before the referendum and democracy as political solutions, just as it is – a great consensus – for the reproving of the monarchy. What you can talk about on the street, what you can ask about citizenship, here don't let us talk about it. Don't let us talk about it because you prefer to be silenced, because you prefer the Speaker of Parliament to be in prison for more than 11 years to allow a political debate, because you prefer the Attorney General to be threatening the members of the Bureau, and because some of you would want us to be quiet and tapped with a bite. Where are the inviolability and parliamentary immunity left? That's why from Juntes per Catalunya, just as Esquerra and the CUP have done, and that's why we also accept all the elements that have entered the text, denounce and reject the action of the Constitutional Court, demand the right to speak of everything, and firmly renounce that censorship goes into this Parliament. And I'm done. Years from now, the books of history – if they're still fans of books – will talk about fair, democratic, innocent women and men who were sentenced to a hundred years in prison. They'll also talk about other men and women, maybe not so fair, that they didn't do anything to stop it. And, above all, surely, who they will talk about is a people who have made their voice felt mobilizing against injustice. A citizen response that was made to feel from the first minute after knowing the indecency of the sentence. A rebroadcast and an outrage that forty-four days later remained well alive. A movement that will continue to struggle until the political conflict is resolved. Unfortunately – and in this I also make my own the words of the deputy Aragonese –, surely politics we have not been at the same height as the street, and we have worked hard to offer solutions, such as today's: forty-four days. And it is that in transcendent moments, the band of valiant attitudes, the band of compromised attitudes, above all we must have, all folds, generous attitudes. The generosity that we have always seen in the city, and that to political formations sometimes at the cost of torbar, and, above all, if intermig there are electoral periods. President Torra, on October 17th, from this very moment of appeal to us to say the truth, and the truth is that we have not given an answer from the institutions that was very cross-cutting, very coherent and, above all, very ambitious, and we have certainly not been at the height of what a society that is firmly mobilized in the defense of its institutions required. It's hard times, but it's also moments of hope. My words do not want to be critical, but to encourage us to continue working together, to continue working together on this path that is ours. And make us our only petition that when we go to prison they make us in a unanimous way. What do they tell us? They say to us: "We do not suffer from anything we have done, we only ask you to make your sacrifices and to make it worth your while. That's why, before the sentence, independence. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.72.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now to position herself has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs. Lorena Roldán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.73.0	Yes; thank you, President. Well, I don't really give credit. We have just seen the three spokesmen of the separatist parties reciting here the complete agenda of the opposition to coups. They're left... they're left of luxury by the three of them, really. [[Greetings.]] Are you aware of the barbarities, the sart of lies that you have come to say here today, and not just that, but the consequences and effects that this has on the street? How are you turning these lies into citizenship, you are conscious? I think yes – I think yes – and that's even worse, it's indecent what you're doing. Look, it's usually said that it's crazy to do the same thing over and over, waiting for different results. It has been more than two years since the fugitive Mr Puigdemont and his separatist acolytes passed over the Rules of this chamber, the Statute of autonomy, the Constitution, this constitution that has endowed us as a society of the best years of our history, and I want to ask you, could any of you tell me what it was for on September 6 and 7, 2017? Can any of you tell me if it served anything other than breaking up together? I'm telling you, it didn't do any good, and you know it. Some recognize it even publicly, others do it privately, but you know it; so the question is, if you know perfectly well that this has brought nothing good, what do you intend to do today? What do you want, repeat those days? You bring here today a resolution that is reaffirmed in each and every point that has led the previous separatist leaders to be condemned, who have been tried and condemned. And you, moreover, have already been warned. Mr Torrent, the Constitutional Court has expressly warned you. You know that, if you put this Parliament back in the service of independence, that can be a crime, and you know it, because the Constitutional Court has said so. And what was the first thing you did when you received that warning from the Constitutional Court? Admit to a motion for a resolution which is manifestly contrary to the Constitution and also contrary to the resolutions of the Constitution. A motion for a resolution which is that the Constitutional has already declared illegal, and you, far from ceasing in your attempt to break the constitutional order, bring it back here to this chamber, and it is also that you display it as a trophy, because, of course, you are the champions of disobedience. A resolution which says, I see, that this Parliament will repeat and repeat as many times as Members of Parliament want – attention – the reprobation of the monarchy, the defence of the right to self-determination and the claim of the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia to decide their political future. You know that this resolution is going to be laid down by the Constitutional Court – you know that. Why is the Constitutional Court evil? No – no. For the sake of the Constitutional Court, what do I think you are sick of already working for you? Neither. The Constitutional Court is going to overthrow this resolution because it is against legality, simply, and you know it, and you know it perfectly well. I ask you again: What do you intend with this? What do you want with this motion for a resolution? Have they not done enough damage to Catalonia? Do you not realize what is happening, I insist, when you arm the masses, when the environment is heated, when you make promises that you know perfectly well that you will not be able to fulfill? Have you not seen the result in Catalonia these days of the frustration that you have been sowing during all these years, that you spend the day threatening, that you spend the day saying you have to attack the state? Now then, when the consequences come, they get their hands on their heads and, of course, no one knows what happened here. Well, if it's very clear, if it's if you don't stop, again and again. And this film is that we've already seen it, this is a deja vu, this is a remake, it just changes the cast, but the argument is exactly the same. And you know how the film ends, you know how the path of illegal resolutions ends. Can't you see it ends badly? Do they not see that they have fellow prisoners and other fugitives from justice? Do you really not realize? We already experienced this on 6 and 7 September two years ago, when you divided this Chamber between democrats and supporters of demolishing democracy, when you showed the true face of separatism; that intransigent, totalitarian face. We've seen it before. A few days, moreover, when his intentions were made clear, that they were to end a consolidated democracy such as ours, to impose its arbitrariness, with a law tailored to it, with a law where the president of the Generalitat chose the judges to his finger. And you come here to question the work of the judges, who wanted you to choose your finger! It's just that it's a shame – it's a shame. [[Greetings.]] You think you own Catalonia. This here shows that you believe that you own Catalonia and its institutions, because only those who believe that they are unpunished can violate the rights of citizens; because only those who perpetrated such an attack on Spanish democracy can come here today to disobey again after they have already spoken of justice. You are an insurrectionary government, exactly like the previous one. And look, after a few months of chaos, a few months of violence in which many Catalans have remained frightened in their homes at night, you come here to continue to silence more than half the Catalans. But, of course, how come they won't? If you don't even consider us Catalans, if even Mrs Forcadell said so, who, according to her, we are not the people of Catalonia, and people applauded her. And now we have had to listen to Mrs Forcadell saying that perhaps they did not have empathy with the non-independenceists. A little late, perhaps? But you have also learned absolutely nothing because you insist. She also asked for empathy from Mrs. Artadi. I mean, empathy with who? With only one part of Catalonia, right? Because they don't see each other, they don't stop humiliating each other, violating their rights, trampling on their freedoms. What empathy, Mrs. Artadi? What empathy? What empathy is this here? You think you have the right to occupy the streets that are of all people with impunity, you believe you have the right to put this Parliament at your service, praising the representativeness of the whole of Catalonia as if more than half of the Catalans did not exist. What empathy is that? After two years we come here with the same tricks to introduce in the parliamentary debate resolutions that, I insist, have already been declared illegal, because they are contrary to the legal order. And they come here with them, after justice has spoken, and it shows that you have learned absolutely nothing. Instead of coming here to apologize for that coup they gave to democracy, for having embezzled the money of Catalans that was destined for social services. Apologize for that. Instead of giving no explanation, for example, about the relations between this government and yourself, Mr Torra, these supposed relations that you seem to have with the radical separatist commands that have been sowing chaos. Why don't you come and face it? Instead of trying, for example, to close wounds from that Catalonia that you have fractured; instead of coming here to show respect to all Catalans or coming, I don't know, to bring proposals that will help solve the problems of Catalans. No, no, You come with this, here, to throw more gasoline into the fire and to show us for the umpteenth time your totalitarianism and your deeply undemocratic character. And they come here no more than to continue to divide and to continue to confront the Catalans despite the fact that you have already lost to democracy, because your coup against democracy, that which your predecessors carried out, already has a sentence; a sentence that has already told you very clearly that what you have done cannot be done. And you insist. It's just that I don't think they've read it, or at least if they've read it, they don't understand what it's like. I quote from the sentence: "There is no international treaty that has codified the right to decide, which you so much demand. Another sentence in the sentence: "There is no democracy outside the rule of law. But you don't understand. This sentence has made it very clear that every time they try to separate us from the rest of Spain, that every time they try to raise borders or, every time they try to violate the Constitution and violate our democracy, justice will be done. And you don't cheat on anyone anymore – you don't cheat on anyone anymore. You are not the victims, the victims are the Catalans who have to endure the abuses of this government over and over again. And how long? I'm asking you. How long will they continue to test the patience of all Catalans? I ask you again: What have you done to make it good for all Catalans during all these years of process? What have they achieved beyond frustration, indignation, and above all now also, in recent months, fear? Who did you think you were to play with the security of Catalans simply because you don't like a sentence? And they read the one they read. And you go out and legitimize the violent people who mount these camp battalions because they don't like a sentence. Indeed, the hooded commanders have tried to assault this Parliament from the barricades, and you, the Independence Members, are doing so today from your seat, with the complicity, of course, of the President of this Parliament, because if anyone had any doubts, because today Mr Torrent has cleared them for us. It has become very clear that he is here to continue the work of Carme Forcadell, to pave the way for you in those threats that Mr Torra continually launches against our democracy. I don't know, do you believe, Mr. Torra, do you believe that Catalans pay you 146,000 euros to cut roads with the official car? Do you think we'll pay you that salary to go selfies in one of the toughest weeks for Catalonia? Do you think we pay you 146,000_eurazos to believe that you are in the Comedy Club and come and explain to us here what you eat and its side effects when you sit on the bench of the defendants? Aren't you ashamed of yourself? Do you think that's funny? Do you have to lower yourself to those levels, Mr. Torra? Because it seems unfortunate to me. Look, we, of course, are not going to participate in this vote, a vote that violates the rights of all Catalans again. And there are no excuses to return coexistence, freedom, equality and security to all Catalans. So we announce to you that we will bring to the attention of the prosecution what happens here today, because protecting Catalans is not an option, it is an obligation, and we will of course comply with it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.74.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Forwarding has the words of Mr Ferran Pedret. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.75.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, I would like to devote my first words to a question that you do not strictly see with which we focus on this motion for a resolution, but I think it is important to say, and it is that from our parliamentary group we want to point out what seems to us to be an ignominy, that it is the removal of the commemorative plaques from the Almudena cemetery in honor of all the people who were fused between 39 and 44. A decision of the Madrid Assembly [[applause]] , that we can't share out of the way, and tell them what they've already told some other spokesman to the Madrid City Council, that it's better that not too late there will be another time these names. In the second term, and coming to the question you're calling us to the debate, we want to point out that what we're discussing today is more than... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.76.0	Shut up, everybody!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.77.0	Over there...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.78.0	Silence, everyone – excuse me, congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.79.0	Beyond the discrepancy in the background that we have in relation to the analysis of the situation, of context and, finally, of course, to the political objective that each group pursues, it seems to us to be a legitimate expression of disagreement with the Supreme Court's judgment, to which, moreover, a series of qualifications and epithets adheres to the functioning of the institutions of the State with which we do not agree in absolute terms. I think we could get to a few points in common respect of dysfunctions in the functioning of a social and democratic state like ours, if that were really the intention of the groups proposing the initiative. On the other hand, it seems that more quickly, as it has been for some time, the initiative is pursuing the construction of a case of just cause for a possible unilateral secession in the future. We, therefore, understand this logic and it is this logic that we analyze. In addition, it respects one of the points that has been mentioned most, that there has been a certain discrepancy and that has also been transmitted in the public debate, to us it does not seem that the introduction of some elements that have formulated the same groups that propose the text and that make a literal quote of an incis that had been suspected by the Constitutional Court, in itself, suppose to vote again on this text. It is simply a rejection of this suspension, it is a literal quote and it is, therefore, a political expression of disconformity, like the joint text of the motion for a resolution, which I have already told you seems legitimate to us, but it also seems to us to see how far we are from being able to address political solutions to the situation we have experienced in the past few years. Because in order to address political solutions it would be hot to establish some minimal consensus, some basic consensus, if you really want to establish a political dialog around the issue. In the first place, we understand that because there can be a political dialogue, the first one that is actually a mutual recognition of the different political and social actors as valid interlocutors and, therefore, effectively, Mrs Artadi, does not dehumanize the opponent. From the outset, not accusing adversaries of lack of empathy, of qualities, let us say it, aesthetics or morals, not qualifying them as rats, even though it is in the heat of a rally or an electoral campaign, and, in general, contributing to seeing the adversary as someone who has some interests, some values, a vision of society that differs from ours but with which we want to be able to coexist in a democratic society and, therefore, to build some common minimum spaces. The other, the other request to establish a political dialogue, that there is a minimal consensus around the respect to which in the Anglo-Saxon law the rule of law is called, is to say, the primacy of the law; the fact that all public authorities – all public authorities – are under the rule of law, which is one of the main democratic conquests in the history of democratic movements. Then, as in the third point, there is no political solution that can really be done through an absolute end of half of our fellow citizens. I think that would be a reasonable point. And, as a fourth point, it has to come to an agreement that generates the widest possible consensus and that it is this agreement that subservient to the ratification of the citizenry, if it falls, obviously, in the form of a reference, but do not agree on how to vote on a question that we know divides us by half. And least of all, there has been a mobilization, which I already recognize has been massive and extraordinary, the U of October, in which, as far as I am concerned... I know that you cannot now agree on this with me publicly, but as far as I am concerned, it can be conceded that it was a reference that complements with international standards in the matter of electoral processes or complements with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and that there was no campaign of no, nor a massive participation of people who were against secession, that is, based on this making a unilateral declaration of independence and calling for the repeal of the Constitution and of the State and seeking to build on this basis a cataly independent state, that is, on the basis of this making a unilateral declaration of independence, we know absolutely, but that it is clear to me that it is clear that the Constitution and the State have been repealed. After you talk a lot about the question of the judicialization of politics and it is also spoken and it was also spoken in the northern years of the politicization of justice; in any case, we may agree that it is not good and the other, indeed, but I believe that we should also be able to agree that the public authorities should be submissive to the right and, therefore, also to the judicial control of their actions. Article 20 of the Bonn Law, of a consolidated democracy such as the Federal Republic of Germany, speaks of the fact that the legislative power is under the constitutional order and the executive and judicial powers to the law and the right. Therefore, it seems to us that this should be a minimal consensus, a basic consensus, in which it seems that we do not find ourselves at the moment, right? Then there is another statement that has been made in the interventions that exposed the motion for a resolution that has concerned us, because it is repeated a lot and I believe that it is also of the utmost importance to recognize it. They say: "There is no problem of coexistence. Miri, I have to tell you that I disagree – I disagree. I believe that there is a problem of coexistence and, in fact, there are studies of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinion – directed by Mr Jordi Argelaguet, people suspected of being of the PSC –, in which people who vote certain parties, when it is the creuament in function of the voting record, say that they do not feel as comfortable as others at the time of talking about politics with certain people, or that they do not feel comfortable talking to them at all. There is quite a remarkable difference, and it is not precisely the voters of the independence parties who say they feel uncomfortable talking about politics, but rather the voters of the non-independence parties. Moreover, there are other questions, also from the CEO, in which the people are asked if they think there is, let's say, a problem of coexistence, if they think there has been a division of Catalan society. And, the same result is very illustrative: the people in Catalonia are divided on whether there is a division or not, but the line is not a homogeneous distribution between those who are independent and those who are not, those who are not independent believe, much more than those who are, that society is divided. Therefore, I understand that the Republican Left Carrier in this debate says no, because it is very representative of what people who vote for it think, and certainly the political and social environment that supports their political formation. But, it's that, if there's a half that says yes, and the other half that says no, it's clear there's a division, huh? And there's a problem with living together. I therefore believe that we should, as far as possible, work to overcome this division that is produced. Look, there's been other statements, too, and I'm done with this, which we're still worried about, aren't we? Because he was saying the CUP spokesman... – he was saying many things, and obviously I can't sum up all of them – but he said: "We, what we believe to be at this stage is a mobilization of masses, the construction of an alternative institutionality..., and he didn't say it, but he gave some independent left-wing spokesman to television recently: "For us the limits are never the individual rights, nor the imposed laws, our limit is the raison d'être, because we have it. Well, we are very concerned about these statements, because we saw that around what we could find ourselves was around these four points that he was promptly exploring and exposing to the chamber in case there was a consensus – I'm not so naive, I know it's not going to happen today – but I think that, sooner or later, we will be able to get together around a consensus as we proposed. That's what we're worried about. We are very concerned about the idea that before a political proposal such as the creation of an independent Catalan state, which divides Catalan society so deeply, and that they do not clearly share so many citizens in Catalonia, it is claimed that the way is the construction of an alternative institutionality and a mobilization of masses. In the background, it is to reiterate what we believe was a fact that began on 6 and 7 September and was one of the great catastrophes of our country's political history.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.80.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.81.0	Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies..., president: our group has repeatedly expressed that the Supreme Court's ruling on the September and October 2017 events is a harsh and unfair one. We have expressed, and voted, also, repeatedly, the refusal to link the right of manifestation and expression, or civil disobedience to the crime of siege. Also our deep solidarity with condemned people, their families, and the need to be free, and our commitment to dialogue and negotiation as the only possible way to overcome this conflict. We have also expressed once and for all, and we reiterate now, that we do not agree with the criteria of the Constitutional Court on the motions for resolutions of the Parliament. In fact, one of the resolutions that the Constitutional has annulled is a resolution of our parliamentary group that respects the monarchy. And we share the criteria of Parliament's letters in the delegations that have made on various occasions to the Constitution, that resolutions or motions have no legal effect, that they are declarations of political nature and are part of the freedom of expression. We should be able to talk to Parliament about everything freely, despite the fact that it wanders beyond the generality's powers. It's what the rest of Spain's autonomous parliaments do, talking, discussing issues that are not their own competition. In fact, the citizenry doesn't understand what they're talking about on the street, what they're talking about to society can't be talking to Parliament. And, therefore, it is also possible to debate the right to self-determination. The Constitution – Members, Members – is not a militant constitution; there are no irreformable parts; it does not prohibit political objectives that do not fit into its legal framework. Therefore, it is possible, within the Constitution, to promote political projects rather than vaginas beyond it. It is constitutional to defend the right to self-determination or the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia as an aspiration and a political project. And I will tell you more: respect for state models, the state model that defends our parliamentary group and our political space, the plurinational and federal project that we defend, nor is it in the Constitution. But it's legitimate, not just to defend it, but to perform actions to try to make it happen. Another thing is how. What is not possible is to do so unilaterally and infringing the laws, much so that there is a majority in Parliament who wants to do so. Therefore, all the strength on our part, again, today, in the criticism of the Constitutional Court, all the firmness in defending the rights of Members and Members, but also all the rigour and seriousness about how it is done, especially when how it can affect people and can affect the same institutions. Because we also want to make it clear: for us, it is not pressuring the highest officials of the Bureau of the Parliament to be at the mercy of the precipice, to be held in contempt, with the possible legal consequences that this may entail for the President, and for the members of the Bureau, and for the same institution. It is, again, the chicken game that so many disgusts and so many bad results have brought, and that would be able to eradicate all of Catalan politics at once. We won't get tired of saying it: like worse, worse. Neither confrontation nor judicialization solves anything. A clear example is the Supreme's feeling, of which we speak in this resolution, that at more than the personal costs it has, that it has incurred and that it will have, also in terms of policy: it has lengthened us more than the solution. I would also like to give a lecture to the parliamentary groups of Junts for Catalonia, Esquerra Republicana and the CUP, and I want it to be understood: do not trivialize the right to self-determination. In the end, as much as putting self-determination or sovereignty in motions for resolutions and motions in this Parliament, they run the risk of trivializing it. We believe that Parliament must be able to debate everything freely. Now, precisely because of the importance of self-determination, because of the seriousness of this debate, because of the transcendence of this debate, because of the future of Catalonia, which is very important, because of the very difficult and complex situation currently in politics, this is neither resolved nor resolved on the basis of motions nor resolutions, which are declaratory. And today's, besides, repetitive and out of context. I shall now come to the analysis of the motion for a resolution in concrete terms. This motion for a resolution, put forward by the three independence groups, went out of time and lost their senses. How did you feel about this proposal? If the feeling is what his title says, give an answer to the Supreme Court's judgment about the events of October 1, 2017, it doesn't happen today. We are debating it forty-four days after the sentence, after the answer has already been made in the street, and it has already been made in the polls, with general elections. And it was that way because you wanted it! Because you, at the moment, have promoted some kind of urgency in the handling of this motion for a resolution. Therefore, it does not seem that really wanted to make this resolution to mark an answer to the sentence. Perhaps the feeling was to try to show a strategic unity of independence at a delicate time. He didn't serve them either. The resolution was recorded after the President of the Generality appeared in this chamber for, supposedly, fixing the answer to the sentence; appearance in which it was evidenced, at the same time, that it was his proposal, not even the consent of the Government, no longer say of the parliamentary groups that support him. But, moreover, in the handling of the resolution, they have also shown their own differences between the three parliamentary groups, for example, on how to resolve the situation created by the annulment by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, they suggest that the object, in reality, was electoral, because it was a campaign of the generals. Listen, the government, the groups that support it, will again show us that they don't have a shared project in the country. We repeat: it makes sense that there is no one at the wheel of this government. In fact, they had neither a shared strategy on how to respond to the feeling, and, unfortunately – unfortunately – they do not seem to have a shared approach on the new situation, the new stage that has opened up to the country from the general elections. And I end this, because the context, as I said, is different, today. It's not the one after a month, when you register this motion for a resolution. It's true that we're still in the post-sentence, but above all, we're in the post-selection scenario, and we're in the post-sentence scenario between the PSOE, United We Can and In Comú Pode, which has opened a new, historical, scene of hope. A possible scene of construction of a progressive majority of government, which allows to give answer to the three crises that we suffer: the social crisis, with the vertiginous rise of inequalities – important, in Catalonia –, the climate crisis, and also the territorial crisis, and the Catalan conflict. Now, the support groups to the government, the decision that they should be taking, and showing, it would be if they were to feed the confrontation or feed the dialog, clearly, unambiguously, taking advantage of the opportunity that exists with a progressive government in the state, and therefore making it viable. You have to sort between continuing to debate between you, between the independent groups, to reaffirm, or not, your positions or differences, or to open the dialog, the negotiation and the agreement with those, in Catalonia, which we think are different. But they must also reflect on the first group of this chamber, the Ciutadans Group. Because the way of the rift, of the daily threats yes also a permanent 155, or of the complaints to the prosecution, as today they have reiterated, are rejected massively for the citizenry, not only in the inquiries of the CEO, but in the ballot box, clearly diaphanous. Now it's time to turn the full route, it's time to change attitudes; it's time for the post-sentence, yes, but it's also time for the post-process, to let gesticulations and confrontation stand back, to take advantage of the opportunity for unlocking and solutions that is taking place in the State. It is time to open a new time of dialogue between forces that we think are different, where everyone will have to hear the reasons of other – empathy –, will have to give in and will have to agree. It is not the time for repetitive or symbolic resolutions, it is the time of politics with capitals, and not to continue with the electoral calculation. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.82.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of the deputy Alejandro Fernández. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.83.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, I have listened very carefully to all the interventions, especially those of the groups that propose, and I was particularly impressed by Mr Vidal Aragonès' inflamed rhetoric. In the final part he has raised his voice, already shouting, therefore, in favor of the republic, against the king..., I say, silent, that this one declares us independence now here live and live. It has not done so, because in fact, after that display of energy I have returned to the text, which I had also read very carefully, and it is a tangled legal engineering to show that they disobey, without disobeying. This is what I attributed the other day to Mr Torrent as ‘the pinch of a nun, and it is especially dishonest to do so, believe me. Because it's to keep a strain on a fiction that doesn't contribute at all, but that keeps bordering on illegality, moving a challenge that doesn't make sense. Secondly, I would like to ask them to abandon once and for all the deeply childish treatment they give to the whole of Catalan society. They say the parliament doesn't allow them to talk about independence. Any adult – adult – who hears them say they won't let them talk about it, will say: "But if they don't talk about anything else in the last seven years! It's just that they talk about nothing but self-determination, independence, and absolutely nothing happens. In fact, I'm going to make one last attempt, see if you understand, though it's quite simple. You can talk about self-determination and independence until exhaustion; in fact, in that you are very effective. What they can't do – let's see if they get it now – is to put to the vote illegal resolutions, and even less, to implement them. And that's here just like in Germany, in Italy, in France. And this is understood by any teenager, but you are still committed to treating all Catalans as children. But, well, since this debate in the background is probably already, at this point in the film, sterile, I would like to convey a message to Mr Iceta. Because today we have attended a new ration of the signs of dialogue and distension that you assure them to reach you. You get signs of distension and dialogue. No one else hears them, but you get them. Today we had a ration of the same. I have come to the conclusion that everything in the Senate should have been organized by you. The Victim of Dialogue! You are so kind, so dialogueable, that they veto the Senate and yet, in the image and likeness of the Creator, you love your adversaries and continue to dialogue. [[Rialles.]] Okay. The problem is that you are already starting to get the Catalan registration, and you are beginning to see that you ensure that you defend the dialogueal flexibility, which would be very good, when you actually practice, without any doubt, relativism at the service of an ambition without limits. To say it in a simpler way: What is your ideology in these turbulent times that we live in? Send it anyway. Pedro Sánchez and you will pass into history..., it seemed like it was going to be for the dance but you will pass into history without a doubt because you are the political duo willing to do whatever it is to do, at whatever price it is. You won't have it that easy. Spanish democracy is not his property. The Spanish nation is not his property. You can't cut it at your own will, you can't auction it for an investiture, because it also causes enormous frustration. And here I am going to end precisely a message that I am conveying to you with all cordiality, because you know very well that I really appreciate you. Look, don't make a Zapatero. I'm telling you really, really seriously. Don't make an offer knowing you won't be able to fulfill it, because that's what turns out to be gasoline of indignation and frustration for much of Catalan society. And that's what we're living in part these days. If by getting you an investiture you misinterpret the signs, try to manipulate Spanish society, you will again be responsible for living processes as exhausting and harmful to Catalonia as those we have lived in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.84.0	Thank you, Congressman. We shall proceed to the vote. Call it a vote. [[Long break. Miquel Iceta and Llorens ask to speak.]] Tell me, Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.85.0	I wanted to ask you for the word for allusions, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.86.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.87.0	No, very briefly. Because I accept all sorts of advice, and more so if they come from the good faith that Congressman Fernández has shown. Just remind him that here to whom they sent an illegal reference and a unilateral declaration of independence was to the People's Party as it ruled. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.88.0	We called for a vote. The parliamentary groups, in their speeches, have already warned that all the reports have been incorporated. The joint motion for a resolution will therefore be voted on, incorporating the addenda submitted by the three parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes to 21, with 8 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[302-00158/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. To introduce her, has the word Mr David Pérez. [[Widow's remorse.]] MPs, MPs, demand that if they are to abandon the hemicicle they do so quickly and quietly. Thank you. [[Pause.]] When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.89.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs, two weeks ago we asked since this Faristol Councillor Budó on four topics related to communication media: finance, transparency, plurality and the future of public television. I raised here the economic, pluralistic, transparent problems that this Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation has, and the councilwoman commented that she was clearly satisfied with our public communication media. I can understand that the fact of..., certain punctual facts cannot be elevated to the category that everything in communication media does not work properly. I agree with that. But we also have to agree that there are aspects in the communication media that are not working. And that was the feeling of my inquiry, huh? , see what are the elements that do not just work, with a correct tone, with a tone that can be, let's say, debate, talk and improve what is going on in these public communication media. And it's in this very same thing that we've presented the motion that we're now discussing. We have presented a motion that we believe fits, therefore, with the content of that inquiry, and that we want our communication media not to get in the way; we want it not to be a closed and dark box at the time of giving information, and that everyone can access it, to the information. We want the insults not to muddle under the umbrella of bad jokes. And we don't want to settle, we don't want to disqualify the political disqualifying public workers. And we think that our communication media would have taken this label from independent communication media. From here there have been presentations. And, from the outset, what we want is to thank all the papers presented, and above all the words we have had with the different representatives of political groups on these issues. If I go a little bit in part, we've practically accepted the commonalities... and we think that all they do is add value to what we're asking of our young lady. And, therefore, we understand that you build that you have all these items. We didn't just accept one, which is what makes reference to public workers. We understand the puzzle, don't we? We understand that we want to make a concrete reference to these public workers, but we also think that it is important that at this time I consist of this incis about public workers. And we also wanted, at this point, to recall an article by Màrius Carol, a concrete phrase. The article is this, the "A la crito de" order", a concrete reference that says: "If public television assigns the Mossos as a threat, what ends up feeling a threat is precisely public television. There has been a phrase that has been, let's say, retweeted by different journalists. Neither did the Ciutadans reviews, which called for the cessation of other TV3 and Catalunya Radio addresses, have been accepted. We think that it is more useful and more concrete to ask exclusively for the resignation of Mrs. Llorach, who is from whom the governing body rests, and who is really not doing what is backwards at this point. Also mention at this point that it was precisely the council that went, let's say, comment that these were fears of asking for explanations to members of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. And, lastly, the last thought, the expression of the groups of the majority. We also accept..., we have traded another item, and we accept item number 1, on the program contract, but it is an acceptance, if I may, that it is a small one: we ask the groups of the majority that today we are selling a brand new program; if the groups of the majority do not do so, we will do it ourselves. We've got till we sell. And if not, we'll do it ourselves. They're right when they say there's a need for a brandy program, but also, you know, it's been many years since this brandy program expired, and the government hasn't submitted its program contract. All right, we accept this: we need to make a brand-new program among all of us. We thought we should do most of it. If most of us don't do it here for sale, we'll introduce him to us. In any case, I'm left with the construction of all the items that have been made. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.90.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, has the word Mrs Raquel Sans. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.91.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, good late. First of all, thank the PSC and Units Group for advancing the good predisposition to accept the items that we have submitted at points 1 and 2, and also the transaction that we were able to reach at point 7, and it is that in these three points that the motion raises we have to say that we are totally in favour. The first point, the need to approve a strong mandate and a programme contract that guarantees, of one band, the compromise with democracy, with political pluralism, the promotion of Catalan language and aranism, and, of the other, also guarantees the presuppositional and financing of communication media. We know he's working on both documents. And, therefore, we understand that it is a shared need. For what it does at point 2, therefore, we also agree on this second point, if we notice what are the commitments we could say that the professional and ethical of the Catalan public media: the promotion of plural debate on questions of public interest, the promotion of social cohesion, coexistence, respect for diversity, regional and local diversity, the promotion of equality between women and men... These are principles that we obviously share. In fact, we understand that this is the philosophy and raison d'être of being public media, and that it may be said that, moreover, therefore, they are taken to the Law of the Catalan Corporation of Mitjans. Finally, the third point we share is the need for the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia to deepen its qualitative analysis of plurality. There are a lot of studies at the quantitative level, we have a lot of data, but we understand that we need to go deeper into this qualitative analysis, because we create public media, and we understand that we need to be very self-requirements because these media have the highest possible quality. Therefore, in these three points we will vote in favour. Now, this PSC motion also includes a part that we don't share in absolute, and that might well be a Ciutadans motion. For example, at point 4 we are asked to set limits to freedom of expression. They refer to some humor programs – and label it "humor, because I think it's important here –... that they do politics or public functions, like the Squad Mossos. And we have to say that we are firmly against putting limits on freedom of expression, for a matter of principles, and even more in the current context, because unfortunately in the last few days we have seen that the limits of humor are found just where the most conservative sectors are disturbed: there can be no joke about the flag of Spain, of the Church, of the monarchy, nor of the police. Let us remember that there are humorous people who have been charged with justice and an actor – certainly, not català – who was prosecuted for shitting himself in God. Therefore, gentlemen of the PSC, firmly and clearly we say no, that we cannot agree in any way to impose limits on freedom of expression. They also refer to the famous political neutrality. The question is, what is political neutrality for you? Talk about what you think you can talk about? Do it the way you think it's possible to do it? I think this isn't neutralized, I think this more quickly is censorship. And we don't agree that he's talking about sluggish audiences and helping to generate this mental mark that TV3 is just television on the part of Catalans. I believe that here we should discuss how the audiovisual landscape has changed over the last few years; how the emergence of digital plataforms has made the consumption patterns of public media different, and therefore focus on these aspects, which I believe is what we should be concerned about in our country's public media. Therefore, we will vote against points 3, 4, 5 and 6. And since we're talking about media and yesterday we celebrated the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, I'd like to end up with a reflection that I think we'd all have to fold as public servants. I think it is essential to control the quality of public media – it is essential, we share – but I wonder what happens to private operators, to these private operators who have these audiences, we would say brutal ones. And here I would like to report from here how it is possible that in a television program where a rape occurred, which was recorded without doing anything to prevent it, where the victim was re-victimized by forcing her to view these images of sexual assault – plus, certainly, images that were leaked to the press–, there is no sign of consequence, nor just the penalty of the hearing. I think it is essential that every 25th of November and every day we manifest ourselves, that we possess the lilac, but it is also necessary that as public servants, as I said, we denounce and pose monstrosities like this. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.92.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Josep Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.93.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, MPs, MPs..., I'm starting, well, saying that we have reached an agreement in points 1, 2 and 7, a constructive agreement, which has already explained the terms of Congresswoman Raquel Sans. Our discussions have served to clarify that the approval of a new program contract between the Government of the Generality and the corporation is essential, but that the prior approval in this Parliament of the strong mandate of the public audiovisual system is essential. And you know, Mr. Pérez, that we have a proposal for a strong mandate, which I hope we can agree, as we did with the law. But I know how to order and do one thing first and then the other, and now the other is this. I don't think you're last, because we're already working, and you're not aware of it. And now step to the negative: points 3, 4, 5 and 6. I'll put the headlines on it. Point 3: "Llorach," he resigned. Point 4: "TV3 insults. Point 5: "TV3 is not plural and indoctrination. Point 6: "TV3 only looks at the independenceists. The first one you're telling us is that the PSC is subrogating Citizens' speech on TV3; without aggressive and light language, but with the same background. And we're very sorry. In point 3 they ask for the resignation of the president in functions of the corporation for a festival of reasons without fonament. Its economic and personnel management was not ineffective; for example, the 2008 exercise was closed with presuppositional balances, and it was not easy. It is also inconceivable that it is attributed lack of transparency and incompliments of the public service mission and style book. I don't like it, so let's go. And it's unfortunate that the commons are standing next to them, because it's probably what a headline in El País warns us – which is not exactly an independentist diary –: "The commons silence sovereignism, and the next step is to whitewash the new PSC speech on TV3. Point 4 goes in the line of making people out too: it's about less and insults of some corporate collaborators to public workers. What they don't come up with is that they talk about humor programs, comic gags that can do more or less thanks; not about the Telenews, not about 30 minutes, not about the Sense fiction: about the State passing by and about Poland. And to end with saying that TV3 is converted into the real threat; from the questionable anecdote to the category: TV3 is a threat. At point 5, challenging real data of quality and plurality, they tell us that TV3 is not plural and that it indoctrinates. I'll give you a couple more dice. One. If you take the audience indexes and convert them into adoption quotas, do it well: this month's data, if TV3 indoctrines independence a 17_percent of the audience, union televisions– Telecinco, Antenna 3, The Sixth, Spanish Television and Four – adopt a 38,7_percent of the Catalan audience. Does it seem ridiculous to you or not, plant it like this? The other dice. It is also curious that you, who are in charge of Spanish Television, told the Government that last week in the information on the ERO fraud conviction in Andalusia, was able not to serve the PSOE symbol on its own in its information, nor in the previa – and the video that does not accompany it –, neither in the information of the day, nor in the analysis of the case. In all text and videos, zero times« PSOE. Is this the neutrality model they want for TV3? Point 6 – very quickly, that time was over –: now only TV3 is watching the independenceists, telling us to tell the data, and when you were ruling it wasn't like that. It's obvious: 15 years ago, in this country there was a 15-percent independenceist, but now it's the majority ideology. I don't know about sociology, but it must be the first sociology that there are more independents watching TV3 or any television now that you've given years. The one who has changed – the one who has changed – is the country. And you, all of you, know it. But they refuse to recognize this reality, because they don't like it. They blame TV3 and they do like the ostriches, flattening the head under the ground. But I'll try to end a positive message. We will approve the points that aim to work to improve public media. But please, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, do not strike another consensus now on public media, as they also want to do with the consensus for linguistic immersion. TV3 and Catalonia Radio have a better margin, it's true, but not with totally skewed elements. Many thanks [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.94.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr David Mejía has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.95.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, this House is talking about basic questions that any media, whether public or private, should not be asked, but unfortunately, here in Catalonia we must remember, therefore, day by day. If we go to the different points of this motion presented by the Socialist Party, we see how, in the first place, he talks about the famous contract program. And he doesn't just talk about his content – which is also, obviously, important – but he talks about his absence, an absence that has lasted since 2009. Many councillors who preceded the councillor have told us and explained to us that they were working on this, but it's been too long since you from the government pulled the pilot forward, and we can't find any concrete results. Therefore, these words have long been taken away from them by the different governments of the Generality. And what we ask are facts and not words. It's been repeated endlessly, but without a program contract, it's impossible to have a financial facility in the middle of the corporation, and it's very difficult to complete a few goals when we don't even know who these goals are to be pursued. And it's also important for this program contract to make sure we have a television and radio that guarantees plurality, neutrality, diversity, and, unfortunately, today, this, as you know, has not happened. The next point of the motion speaks to us about failing and demanding the resignation of the president in the offices of the corporation, Mrs. Núria Llorach, both for her inefficiency in her management as for her lack of transparency, and also for the repeated failure of the book of style of the same corporation. We fully agree: it is an urgent need for this resignation in order to guarantee all these principles that we have previously detailed, of pluralism, of objectivity, of objective truth. But we believe that it was also essential to put this motion in place – and so we moved it in the form of an emena – the resignation of the previous reprobate for this Parliament, Mr. Vincent Sanchis, the same gentleman who said that he felt badly paid, when he charges more than a hundred and a thousand euros a year to make the government's propaganda advisor, first of all, of the runaway who gave a shot at democracy and, now, of the government who wants to continue with the breach of our constitutional order. He himself said here is different from the will of this Parliament. So the will of this Parliament has already been expressed in the previous legislature, and I therefore ask Mr Sanchis to resign once and for all. Another point that this young man refers to is about the insults that we see constantly to public workers or to public functions, and also to policies, that do not follow with the instruction manual of the good separatist. It is absolutely unacceptable for our parliamentary group that co-workers of the corporation have no problem at a time of undermining, for example, squad movements or constitutionalist policies, while the direction of the corporation does nothing at all. We already know that they, you, think that television is theirs, but we would remind them of the times that TV3 and Catalunya Radio are needed and that the public communication media are not theirs, but are of all Catalans. And in the same way that the collaborators feel unpunished by their comments, we find the same programming: lack of plurality to the third parties, where the majority of Tertullians are always independent; no political neutrality of some professionals who lead the programs, and no differentiation of opinion and information, or programs intended exclusively to damage, for example, the image of Spain or that serve to whiten violent and condemned for terrorism. And finally, he also talks to us about the issue of hearings, some hearings that the government and the corporation keep coming down on them, but they forget about a very important issue, and it's that half of the people of Catalonia don't feel these means as good as they do, even though they also pay them. And they don't feel like they're close because they see their independent drift. And many of these Catalans don't have or tuned their frequency. And that should be reflected not only on the direction of the corporation, but also on the members of the government, because their absolute irresponsibility has resulted in more than half of the Catalans being disconnected from our media. Until there's a change in its direction, we won't be able to have any more media. And, therefore, we, in the conjunction of the motion, except at a concrete point, will give support to this motion and to any one that was aimed at changing this separatist drift that we are patenting on TV3 and Catalonia Radio. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.96.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the turn of Deputy Marta Ribas, of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.97.0	Well, let's go back to the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation. This time, at least, it is not with that sense of deja-vu of Ciutadans' monochromatic motions on the subject, that every three, four_months appear in the plenary of Parliament, even though at some point I have to tell you, Mr Pérez, that it is a bit of a citizen. But, well, let's start with the principle and the position: today at least this young man has focused, as in focus and as in the first place, where we go, where we go when we talk to the government respect the media of the corporation, which is to demand urgently a program contract, because this is the responsibility of the government, together with the direction of the public media. I've said it a thousand times in this room and I repeat: in fact, the most effective tool the government has ever played in the past few years to capture the corporate communication media is that since 2009 it has not been able to hold a program contract, so it's a financial waste capacity facility. And that makes it dependable, year after year, on the media of the corporation of the negotiation of resources with the government, which means economic dependence, which ended up becoming political dependence. This, combined with an election of responsibility streams that respond to party obediences, has put at risk the plurality and neutrality of our public media and the fact that we can have a direction and governance of these public media that responds to the interest of what should be public media, and not to the interest of the government to return. I must have changed that. We've put down lives because I've changed the law to choose the governing bodies with the widest majority, but now I have to apply it, Members, Members. I need to apply it and I need to do it right, not pervert the hope of that law modification we approved on October in this chamber. And yes, as a new warrant marks and as an urgent program contract. In this sense, we agree with the motion for a resolution. We have focused on extending key elements of what should be the meaning of this strong mandate, and especially of this programme contract, so as not to lose sight of the fact that the obligation of public media is to guarantee the truth and impartiality of the information, because its objective and mission is to guarantee the right to the information of the citizen. The right is from the citizenry. Or let us not forget the obligation of the public media in Catalonia to promote Catalan and Orange. Nor do we forget his obligation to give sight to social, political, cultural and associative groups represented in our society. He's joined this young man, by means of papers. We also agree, as we said a thousand times, that we need to act to reverse the audience bias that currently exists between who you see, yes, and listen, our public media. And that's not an opinion, it's an official fact. The Generality barometer says that an 80_percent of the citizenry that says they voted independent parties see TV3, and with very little effect a 15_percent of the citizenry that they say they voted Citizens, PSC or PP, see TV3. Therefore, yes, there is a bias in the current audience of our public media. But let's not simplify this, it's not just about a language theme, as you usually say Ciutadans. Nor is it just how national political information is dealt with. It is also because of how the territory is reflected, how it reflects social diversity, whether or not you see minorities in our society, in our public media. It's complex, it goes a lot further, so that's why our goal is too. And no, we do not agree to convey this criticism that we also believe in the lack of pluralism and the lack of various views of our public media, of a direct attack on professionals. We have criticized it every time Citizens have done it, and we have done it now that the Socialist Group has done it too. Yes, "Citizens in point 4 of this motion. There can be no limits to humor. And no, it can't be said that TV3 is becoming the threat. I'm done. Obviously, we will vote in favour of the reprobation of the most responsible at this time of the corporate government. Because, yes, it's not ensuring transparency. In fact, he has filed a judicial complaint against the Parliament of Catalonia because it is claimed to be transparent. No, it's not ensuring plurality and truthfulness, and no, it's not doing a good economic management of public communication means, and still less a good staff management, which is what we've put in the same way. This week, precisely, there is again a vacancy for TV3 workers for problems that still have redundancies, not only a few months ago but a few years ago. Therefore, yes, we will vote in favour of the reprobation of Mrs Núria Llorach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.98.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix his opposition, has the word the deputy Nattalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.99.0	Good afternoon, everyone. As has been said, let's go back, let's go back and talk about public media. The PSC presents to us a motion that in the background, as has also been said, does not come out of the manic marks to which we are already accustomed, as has also been said, Ciutadans or the PP. Some manic marks are that TV3 and its professionals, Catalonia Radio and its professionals, are painful and tendentious and on their part. Today we remembered, reading this motion, those three proposals, that reception of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, of the PSOE, that they were campaigning, intervention on public television, prohibition of the celebration of the referendum and intervention of the public school. And we've already seen this week that the PSC went further and what it does is a direct attack on the Catalan school and the Catalan school in general. On the urgent need for the signature of a new program contract, obviously we are in favour. We are in favour and we will vote in favour. But we in this proposal find that we lack those questions that the public television workers and workers are putting on the table. We're missing those questions that refer to the need to replace downloads and the need to contract in actual production peaks. It's a template renewal plan, and that's important, and we'll find ourselves again in the same questions, that what they do is precisely label TV3. You feed this label and this category of public media, both TV3 and Catalunya Radio. On the need to ensure that media are a reflection of the diversity of the political and cultural pluralism of Catalan society, of course we are in favour of it. But you don't get the perspective on what they're throwing at us. We deny the Major. We deny them the major that the independence movement, which more than two million people, are simple to serve Poland. It's that what we have is respect for people's critical opinion and opinion. And so, what they do is, acritically, do what Mr. Toni Soler says. So, no. And we, in this sense, deny the major, do not accept this analysis that they do, which is very tendentious. We, yes, want fewer Rahole Pillars and more diversity, of course. But the layout they make doesn't share it. [[Some applause.]] We do not want to ban humor and we will always be in favour of the international principles of journalistic ethics stipulated for UNESCO, against censorship, for freedom of expression. Because, Mr. David Pérez, journalists are no longer aware of the news, as Mr. Manuel Fraga Iribarne advocated, and in this sense we do have some questions to which we will support, but to the majority, and especially the major, we deny it and vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.100.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the turn of Deputy Daniel Serrano, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.101.0	Thank you, Vice President. From the seat. We obviously share the first point of the motion, we believe in the imperative need for a new framework contract to be approved, and the only thing we expect, as Mr Mejía has rightly said, is fact and not words. It has been a long time and we trust this to be a reality as soon as possible. As for the rest of the motion, we obviously share a great deal of the points. Really, reading the motion is like reading the letter of the Wise Kings. They are democratic desires that every citizen aspires to in a democracy and in its public media, are they not? But I think we could have added some more. Obviously, we share that of a plural television, respectful to the adversary, where the plural debate, which respects diversity, is encouraged. But we could also have added other points, such as that contracts are not contracted or terminated with those producers whose managers or programmes are dedicated to insulting more than half of Catalans or their security forces and bodies. That would be an interesting step on the road to respect and quality of programming. We could also have supplemented one of the points. We share, of course, that the commitment to the promotion of Catalan and Aran is strengthened, but what an important step would also have been to introduce the commitment to the promotion of the Spanish language, which is the language of more than half of Catalans. That would also have been a very important step in advancing the quality of programming. But I am very afraid that this letter from the Magi will remain in that, on a list of wishes, that with this government you know very well that it will not be possible to comply, because they do not believe in plural public media. Their problem is not that they believe in public television and radio, either party or political. The problem is that they believe in a public radio and television regime, and with that it is very difficult to trade, Mr Pérez, and you know it and I know it. Therefore, the only thing left to us is that when the ballot boxes are opened and the citizens decide to change the government, you are not for the task of governing with any of the variables of the equation, because none really serves to change the model of public radio and television in Catalonia. In order to do this again, the two variables must be taken out of the equation and not aspire to govern with either of them, because then this list is really going to remain in that, in desires, and therefore the opposition will have only the criticism, the denunciation and obviously also to reproach the president in office of the corporation, because the surplus merits has done for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.102.0	Thank you, Congressman. In order to pronounce on the papers, Mr David Pérez has the return of the Member of Parliament. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.103.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Counselor, Mr Counselor. No, no, I will try to make no change of opinion in the votes, but at the very least raise elements of debate. Is the journalist's freedom of expression limited? So yes. I'm not saying, I'm saying the corporate style book. That's not questionable, I think. Doesn't the book serve us either? Oh, and so much so, right? So look, there are things in the book that say they can't be done, okay? And that journalists are under this style book. And there are televisions like the BBC, which when a journalist makes expressions of insult or masculinism, eliminate the program – the program. Can I talk about neutrality? It is clear that yes, the book of style says, apart 1.1.2.1.5, "impartiality, neutrality and pluralism, referring to the professional. Mr. Riera, I did not talk about the adoption – I did not talk about the adoption – and the motion does not talk about the adoption or the union television. But there's been the answer you give to Ciutadans. I have no problem being told that I am a citizen, or I do not know how they have said it, but some should think about how they give the answers in this Parliament, because this young man's intention was to improve public media. And I believe that we will demonstrate in the votes that it is possible to do, that in this Parliament it is also possible to speak of public media and it is also possible to speak of language. And you can talk about public media to improve them, not the theory that according to what we alone can talk about. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Certainly, I thank the whole set of interventions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.104.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[David Mejía Ayra asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Mejía?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.105.0	Thank you, President. To request separate vote from point 1, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.106.0	Excuse me. Point one? [[Pause.]] Thank you. Any more petitions? [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.107.0	In order to ask for a separate vote on points 3, 4, 5 and 6, which could be voted jointly. [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp and Susanna Segovia Sánchez ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.108.0	Yes, Mrs. Sànchez and Mrs. Segovia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.109.0	In order to ask for a separate vote on points 1, 2 and 7, which could be voted together. And from another side, point three.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.110.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.111.0	All right. [[Daniel Serrano Coronado asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Serrano?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.112.0	Yes, President. To request a separate vote under point 2 (g).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.113.0	All right. I repeat the compilation I made of your petitions to see if it matches your voting schedule. We will vote first on point 1, point 2.g. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The remainder of the 2nd and 7th that I have been asked to vote separately. Three, right? [[Pause and voice of the background.]] Yeah, yeah. The point 1 separate, the point 2.g separate, the rest of the 2 and 7 together, three for one band, four for another and 5 and 6 together. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. So, we vote first place, point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 97 votes in favour, against and 35 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 2.g. The vote begins. The 2.g_point was approved by 126 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. We're voting now for the rest of point two with point seven, yes? Two with seven. [[Pause.]] The vote begins. The remainder of item 2 and item 7 were approved unanimously: 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. In point 3 there was a tie: 64 votes in favour, 64 against and 4 abstentions. So let's go back to voting number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 63 votes to 64, with 5 abstentions. Vote now... [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, quiet... we're voting point four now. The vote begins. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Point 4, the vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 56 votes in favour, 76 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting points 5 and 6, which are the two last points left of this young man, 5 and 6. The vote begins. Points 5 and 6 were rejected by 64 votes to 68, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Subsidies of the Department of the Presidency and the Tax Benefits to Entities of Doubtful Social Utility]] [[302-00161/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the government about the subsidies of the Presidency Department and the tax benefits to entities of dubious social utility. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, to expose it has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.114.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. It is clear that this Government, like previous nationalist governments, misuses public money and grants subsidies and tax benefits to entities that either do nothing or what they do is directly harmful to Catalans. I give an example of those entities that do nothing and receive tax benefits: the Association per a la Guarda del Patrimonio Historicocultural de l'Alguer, which the name is very long, but do not make the egg – and forgive the expression. Until 2012 they sang in the choir of the two Masses that were made or made in alguerès, but now they don't even do that anymore. And the obvious proof that the Generalitat gives absolutely the same thing that they don't do anything is that I asked the Department of Culture for the memory of activities over the last ten years and they told me that they didn't have them. How can they give tax benefits to an entity that has literally done nothing since 2012? And there are other cases of misuse of public money that are really scandalous, such as paying for the mortgage and the renovation of a building in the center of Valencia. How is it possible for the Generalitat to use the money of all Catalans to pay for a building that is in another autonomous community and is also owned by a private entity? The excuse I'm being given is that it's to encourage Catalan, but I've been sick of asking what help to encourage Catalan to pay the mortgage of a building, and they never answer me. And they do not answer me because the answer is very obvious: paying a very expensive mortgage does not help in anything to promote any language. If they were really interested in promoting languages, what they would do is have all the Generalitat websites in Catalan, Spanish and Arabic. Because let us not forget that in Catalonia there are three languages, although for nationalists the only one that is the own language is Catalan; but no, fortunately we have three languages, and that is a wealth. Or they would also use that money to improve the working conditions of the workers of the Consorci de la Normalizaci Linguística, something we have repeatedly asked for. In the case of the payment of the mortgage of El Siglo and of the subsidies to Acció Cultural del País Valencià, it goes beyond having a political position or another, since the prosecution is investigating them for possible misuse of public funds. In this motion we ask that tax benefits be stopped to an association that does nothing in the Alguer and that mortgage payments be stopped and subsidies be given to an entity of the Valencian Community which cannot be said to do anything exactly good. Money is not for the promotion of Catalan, money is for the enrichment of your friends. And, look, I started my intervention by saying that sometimes money goes to entities like these, which are not useful, but in other cases it goes to entities that are directly harmful to Catalans, and the most obvious case is that of Platform for Language. Platform per la Llengua is an entity that is basically dedicated to the identification of workers and businesses; notes that in many cases end up in campaigns of harassment and destruction against businesses or against specific people, and even in slavery, as we could see a few weeks ago in a CAP de les Corts. It is not possible that the money of all Catalans is used for an entity that violates workers' rights. It is not possible that the money of all Catalans is destined for an entity that contributes to the social fracture. It is extremely serious to subsidize an entity that attacks people who in most cases are of immigrant origin. Does the rest of the parties support the targeting of workers and the launching of campaigns against them? Yes or no? The answer is very easy, and I would like to be answered from here. But in any case we will see whether they support the workers or support this entity, which, as I said, is harmful to Catalonia, and not only to Catalonia, but in particular to the Catalan language. And the most obvious case is spying on children in schoolyards. An entity that receives thousands of euros every year, without public attendance, from the Generalitat, the City Council and the Diputación de Barcelona says in a press conference that it has spied on the students, and here nothing happens. I asked the counselor which centers they had been spying on, and he told me he didn't know. Well, he doesn't know and he doesn't seem to be interested, because no one in this government has done anything to defend, to protect those students. I ask you to for once forget your prejudices and vote in favour of this motion, because voting in favour of this motion is voting in favour of coexistence and is voting in favour of all Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.115.0	As no papers have been presented in this House, parliamentary groups will now speak to fix their position, and first of all, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, Mr Ferran Pedret. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.116.0	Well, thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans ask that the chamber be positioned, and therefore the groups, around a series of points that counted the motion, and I will try to do so in the order in which it stood. First of all, the first point, let's say, has a very generic character and asks the Government of the Generality that it does not pass through projects or actions of social interest or public utility activities that only respond to the partisan interest "of adherence and promotion of separatism, in the terminology used in the resolution. Well, we, of course, with a formulation like that, generically, we have to agree, whatever it might be, it would be possible to ask that it is concrete in which cases this has occurred. Even so, it is true that the point according to which it is asked is precisely that there is an integral audit in the granting of public subsidies to the Government of Catalonia and its dependent bodies in the last two years, which is quite a large period, isn't it? Therefore, from here I should have come or could have come the information about in which cases it may have been a misuse of public resources. We, too, are in favour of this. It also asks for measures – also in one way, let's say, more generic than it would be, but in any case it is a young person, it is not a proposal of law – to fight actively against corruption by mediating the creation and application of a more transparent standard_mark, etc. Of course, we also have to agree. And he asks that there is no policy of developing institutional publicity for the dissemination of a message, so to speak, partyist, right? And we also need to agree on that. We've seen some corporate advertising campaigns – some even denied that they existed, even though there were videos stuck in the networks – in what this is produced. So we have to agree. Now, at the fifth point, that's when it comes to making some concrete, a little random, I would say, because there are different types, we have to say that, as it seems to us that the congruent is waiting for the result of this audit to be produced, let's say, an information based on which to study which aids and which are not really complete with objectives of general interest, cultural interest, etc., we will abstain from those that appear to be anticipating the same audit that the Citizen Group is asking. We will vote against some, for example the two behind, in which... Because, for example, we do not understand the argument that as a very small entity – because we are talking about the city of Alguer – an entity that defends the historical cultural heritage of Alguer that is centered, let us say, in the defense of the arrival of the Catalan language to Alguer, even though it is with an activity that may seem smaller, such as the following singing a choir song at certain points..., that has little or no activity in the last few years should not be an obstacle because it is maintaining the tax benefits, in the sense that, if it is to promote this activity to cultivate the cultural heritage of Alguer, it should not be an obstacle because it is maintaining the tax benefits, in the sense that, if it is to be promoted that this activity to cultivate the cultural heritage of Alguer is not a special activity, then it is to pursue the tax benefit. That's not what we just heard. And it seems to us that the only thing that can be done is to raise the sentence to the mockery and persecutions that have been done to workers both of a CAP as workers, above all, in the restaurant and inn for linguistic reasons. It seems to us that here there has been, consciously or unconsciously, an exercise of classism that seems to us to be good that many parties of the chamber may agree on this, independently of the position they maintain around the question of secession, or even around the question of the promotion of Catalan language, because it seems to us that from this point of view it should be said that there is no such thing as workers and workers in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.117.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Deputy David Cid. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.118.0	Well, I think this is a young lady who I don't know if it's from the past, or the day of the marmot, or anchored, right? I think this is what we're talking about. And I think it has to do with a strategy in my failed hearing – but, well, every one is also free and legitimate to do the strategies that it wants – based on the confrontation of the conflict, it goes on forever and is also taken to the language camp. I believe that it is very dangerous and I believe that we are contributing directly, a good part of the Catalan political forces are contributing to a conflict that was political, which also became a social conflict. Because I agree when someone says that Catalonia has no problem with the use of language. There may be problems, in both directions, it's to say..., because it's true that sometimes, for example, there are those who act intransigently with the use of the castle, and it's also true that sometimes there are those who act intransigently with the use of the catalá; for example, security forces and cosmos of the State – has passed repeatedly –, and the problem is that some of us only try to signify or attempt to signify one of these elements as an element of political confrontation, isn't it? Perhaps, if we don't want there to be a problem of living together in Catalonia or not, those who say that there isn't a problem would do well not to try to create it and those who say there is a problem of living together in Catalonia would do well not to try to feed it through the language, which is a particularly sensitive issue. And when it comes to talking about consensus, right? , which must refer to consensuss or create new consensuss on the subject of language, perhaps I am more in favour of that, certain consensuss that have worked, better than we touch them. I liked that when it was said that Catalan culture was Raimon or Raimon, it's Rodoreda, it's Montalbán, it's Serrat, it's Mendoza or Fuster, right? And I think it was a good consensus in Catalan society. And obviously there's Catalan literature and there's Spanish literature, right? And I think that we, and so we will express it with our vote, will do a non-political at the side of the motion, because it is a motion based on pride, confrontation, not listening to others, conflict and hatred. And I believe that Parliament must reflect, too, on what it wants to do. I already know what Citizens want to do, it's what they do throughout the legislature, and some independence groups also do it, which is: if it's up to us to fuel a certain conflict, which is political, but I think it hasn't been social until now, and we also want to bring it to certain lands, such as the land of language... I think we're wrong to fight and I think it's a mistake from a point of view, and I think it has to see with the responsibility that every political force and what it wants..., it's obviously legitimate, political positions are legitimate, and even if you want, the election is legitimate. I think we go into a very dangerous land every time we situate the language as an element of political discussion or languages, huh? In any case, because I believe that in Catalonia it is obvious that there are two official languages, both Catalan and Castilian, as an element of political discussion in Catalonia. And in the end, what we end up doing is that this resolution is not a thread, it's obvious; it's saying, I don't say that there isn't... as I said before, I think that Catalonia isn't a problem with the use of language, there can be punctual problems, that obviously have to be renounced, but it's a bit of a thread, isn't it? Because, of course, it's to say... in the end, some of the things that are in this motion, for example, is to withdraw the element of cultural entity to Cultural Ómnium. Look, I can agree very much, or not, with Cultural Heritage, too. I was a member of the Cultural Society and I gave myself up, my friend Cuixart knows it and Jordi Bosch knows it too, because I did not agree with certain political positions of the Society. But denying that Ómnium is a cultural entity of Catalonia seems surrealist to me – it seems surrealist to me. Among other things, because, for example, of Cultural Omnium organizes the main prize in Catalan literature català, is to say..., is that it is pure and hard surrealism. That is to say, the Nit of the Catalan letters the organization Cultural Ómnium from the year 1960, and the main prize in Catalan language the cultural Ómnium Ómnium. And, therefore, if Cultural Entity is not a cultural entity, obviously, legitimately, then there will be who will agree politically with which defence Jordi Cuixart or which defence Cultural Entity, but obviously we are not here, are we not? And then, sometimes, also, when it comes to tax benefits, miri, I don't know, going to look for an entity of the Alguer, if for tax benefits, those who give you to the great returns, for example, to Andalusia, that have eliminated the inheritance tax that paid, for example, the people who had more than 100_million euros worth of assets. So, or so, you..., if you're the syringuit of the tax benefits of the rich, but you're the specialists in this. And when you, for example, talk about..., right? , for example, « of the misuse of public money, you have to situate, for example, don't you? , that it is not reasonable for the Generalitat to finance, for example, in this case, the Cultural Work of the Valencia Country. But, of course, I read it literally, huh? "Andalucia is setting up an aid line to combat linguistic immersion. I mean, that's the condition that Vox put on Ciutadans and the PP to approve Andalusia's assumption. Clearly, that is to say, Catalonia cannot finance the Cultural Work of the Valencian Country, but you, with a pact with Vox – with Vox, with the Faixists – with the Faixists who are sitting with Mr. Ortega Smith, who is unable to look at a victim of male violence in the face... [[applause]] Can you finance help against linguistic immersion? So, look, I think... I need a little coherence from everyone, and I'm going back to saying what I was saying: maybe one or the other...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.119.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.120.0	...let's stop using the language and languages spoken to Catalonia, which are the català and the castella, as a trigger weapon. We would do much better, all of us, to live together in Catalonia. I, anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.121.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.122.0	...for culture, which is Montalbán and Rodoreda. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.124.0	Thank you, President. Well, this young man, what he claims is to link independence with opacity, with embezzlement, with corruption, and criminalise it in the framework of a general cause against independence. We would like to recall that, by the way, it also criminalizes entities that promote Catalan culture and language, in concrete terms, the Platform for Language and Ómnium, which are two entities with a lot of partners, and Ómnium, including, was persecuted for the Francoism but it was not undertaken by the president of Ómnium during the Francoism, made it the rule of 78. His current president, who when he was a troisorer, resigned from the subsidies of the Generality. What bothers you is, precisely, that there is a map of the Catalan Countries that draws defense for social rights, for the right to housing, that draws defense of the territory, with the GOB, for example, to the Islands. With SOS Costa Brava. What a defense, also education with the Illes' teachers. What's also a map that draws the anti-weather fight. On the other hand, you haven't had a problem with, a few months ago, as Mr Cid said, being able to subsidize an activity against linguistic immersion. Or, including, subsidize braus courses. And, on the other hand, we have not seen them criticise, neither the subsidies to the Francisco Franco Foundation, nor the phonementalist entities that deny the right to abhorrence, nor the money that is destined for the army or a corrupt monarchy. And, therefore, I have clear who the meaning is, or who the intent of this young man is, we will position ourselves, in bulk, at all points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.125.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Congresswoman Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.126.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, two hours ago we were talking, above all the groups that support the government, about the impossibility of lowering taxes to the university in a 30 that we approved three years ago to this Parliament. And one of the reasons given was, therefore, the lack of liquidity in the Generality box for the effects of an economic crisis. But you know what? That this economic crisis never affected the amount of rebuds and direct rebuds subsidies for certain entities. Only in the case of Ómnium, which is mentioned in this motion, between 2005 and 2015, did it recover the amount of 20_million euros; twenty-million euros that a part of these, obviously, was used to pay, for example, therefore, the bail of Mr Puigdemont, and that at the head and the end has degenerated, in this entity, to be more a political actor than a promoter of the head of cultural activity. In the case of the Language Platform, which also refers to this young man, we also have the situation that an entity that directly uses the Generality to re-subsidize, to carnify and to crush private individuals and businesses, which serve – oh, oh, great dilemma and great crime – the language and mother tongue of the 51_percent of Catalans, which is Spanish. That said, we, between these motives and the three common elements we have found in the last few months between Operation Voloh, Operation Estela and the possible supplicator in the case of the Institute of Catalan Letters, we would say that yes absolutely to all the forecasts of this movement, that what they want is more transparency in order to avoid corruption, clientelism and misappropriation of foundations and complete public. We do not find it possible to vote in favour of an external audience, because we believe that with the same entities and with the same constraints that we have at our bottom, whether the Anti-Fraud Office, or the Union of Accounts, we could already make a complete audit of all this category of subsidies that the Generalitat serves, sometimes in a fraudulent way, as they show the cases that I have suspected, in order to have control, in the end, of the public resources, which are of all Catalans, not only of the independenceists.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.127.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr José Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.128.0	Thank you, President. I want to begin to describe why this young man seems to me a misrepresentation. You seem interested in asking who are entities of dubious social utility. Before you came here..., in fact, if this interest, you would have used your deputies to Congress, that every couple are less, to ask for the public interest of foundations like Francisco Franco, or the Queipo de Llano, or would not finance from the Government of the Andalusian Council foundations like that of the Toro de Lidia, that rep 150,000_euros of the money of the Andalusians. Maybe it's because honoring the figures of the faixistas responsible for thousands of murders, or making a spectacle of the torture of animals must seem to them to have social utilities. I suspect that if torturing dofins was part of the Spanish tradition, they would also finance it. We're not in a young man who wants to be constructive. In the background, it's a jump you're making for pure by. They have to see what they're going to do in the Spanish elections here in Catalonia. Why, to stay short in the anticathala speech the steps to the Vox right. That's why they've come to this session of Parliament with a sequence of motions, which are more unbeknownst to them, and they'd have to stick to it because they don't give papers to their motions. You, in the wake of points that derail, try to discredit any entity that makes Catalan language or culture its realm of work. This isn't new. Since its birth, you have followed the momentum of Spanish nationalism and have agreed that the main problem for your political agenda is all that you want to see with Catalan identity. Perhaps, by luck, of the spiders, you usually ignore them and their identity. They are harassing the Catalan language, which is why they intend to criminalize sociolinguistic research in schools. They want the label not to be in the castle and in the catalá but only in the castle, which is what would happen only with Spanish legislation. Or attack Cultural Ómnium such as General Muñoz Grandes in 1963. His attack on the català was even against the interests of those of whom we have the castle as the family language. Today, because of the sun that català is the usual language of use for a part of the Catalans, a language in which they consume, work, live and do business, mastering català makes it easy to find work. When you attack linguistic immersion or the work of entities such as Language Platform or Ómnium, which are promoting knowledge and use of the català, precisely in the barrels where less is spoken, you want to degrade the socioeconomic opportunities of people who have the castle as family language. With a certain hypocrisy, because you dominate the catalá much better than we dominate the many others. Not only that: you want to close us, to which we have the castle as the mother tongue, to be able to access a cultural space and a way of hearing the world, which is what provides us with the ability to have a català of quality. In the background, they want us to lock a social and cultural door. Also to defend the Spanish uniform identity. Because, in fact, speaking of "nationalist xiringuitos", the State devotes hundreds of millions to the tools of Spanish nationalism, such as the Cervantes Institute, the Elcano Institute, or Global Spain. This is a questionable social use. Some of these with offensive and ridiculous videos powered by a state and a diplomatic device to try to save the image of state nationalism that makes water for all four sides. I ended up with a council, Mrs. Sierra: correcting these motions now to try to keep them out of Vox as the spearhead of Spanish nationalism, it won't work for them. In fact, they have not yet reflected on how Spanish nationalism, even counting on a state, an economic and media apparatus in Catalonia, is becoming more minority decade to decade, while, decade to decade, there are more people who support the project of an independent Catalonia. Competing with Vox to see who is the most ancient, you will not cease to be a white mark but all. Speaking of assessment: I want to remind you of the assessment made by your ex-director, Albert Rivera, to professors of the Palau Institute. That did change some people's lives. I'd like to discourage them from what they do, that it's making a Catalonian project in Spain a project every time more obscure, uncomfortable and homogenizing, where it can only be Spanish in one way, and delegate the rest of the entities to pure folklore and marginality. We will continue to work for a project of an independent, open, inclusive Catalonia and where the identities of no one can be questioned, and where, more than anything else, being, feeling and speaking Catalan can be done with all the rights and all the tranquility. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.129.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francesc Ten has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.130.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies, deputies, five minutes to position our rebuig to this umpteenth motion of more than the same as Citizens brought us here today. More than even repeats a point that was already carried a_me ago, that was processed and traded, and voted in favour, by 128 votes, but that they resurrect from the original version and bring it back here today, to see if this way they might end up being approved. Five minutes to show our disconformity to the slightly strict, intransigent, hard, perfid, imprecise vocabulary, which is usually used by this group in this Faristol, and especially in the inquiry that has been made, and in matters such as the ones we are dealing with today, so they always use. What's the end of it? With the sole purpose of sowing discord, doubt, conflict, and deploring this institution. But, no, they won't be able to discredit the Catalonian Parliament. Under a title deceived and imprecise, Citizens take advantage to attack, for example, Platform for Language. Language Platform does not make any mockery, nor does it, nor has it participated in any mockery of anyone. Language Platform does not attack anyone to speak in castle. Platform for Language goes against those who attack those who speak in Catalan to defend their rights to speak in Catalan, our rights, those of everyone, to speak in Catalan. Platform for the Full Defense the non-discrimination of català, of the linguistic community, of the speakers, of the people who speak català and that we must see 'instracted with inferiority of conditions before an officiality of català that does not allow it to have the same recognitions that it does have the officiality of the castle, because the Constitution Emperor, and even more the brutal feeling of the Constitutional Court. Shouldn't Catalonian public servants have all the obligation to know the català, just as we do the castle? And I take this opportunity to say to the PSC – which the Socialists should say, but I am not sure – that, if so convinced that education and culture are going to go hand in hand and be treated as a whole – and it is true, and I believe it too – do not want for all the young people of Catalonia that català is an opportunity of better, more education, more culture, better working conditions, social conditions, knowledge and growth? Defend that one of the official languages of Catalonia is not taught at school? Would someone come to know you're not teaching me what kind of math chapter at school? It would be irresponsible. I already have less than five minutes to say that if they don't like an entity like Ómnium, you will want to eliminate it. To withdraw the consideration of cultural entity to Ómnium is to say, therefore, that Ómnium is not a cultural entity, it is to say as if Citizens is not a political party; it is to say, does not carry that. It works on three aspects that until 155 were crucial in this country: language, country and culture; and this includes the defence of institutions. And all parties, except Citizens, in their measure, more or less, and in their diversity, as it should be, defend these principles: language, country and culture, and defence of institutions. 155 was loaded, and this was a mistake and will be the condemnation of what you gave him support. MPs and MPs of Citizens, for Catalans, for many more Catalans than you think, their way of acting, cartels, anger, conflict, leadership changes, resignations, this pseudo-liberal program that deals with ultra-rights, etc., this does not connect with people, does not connect with anyone; this is left here, at the Ciutadella, at the zoo, not up to the Picasso Passage. [[Widow's remorse.]] You are part of the sad landscape storms of right-wing and freedom-return. [[Greetings.]] They're aware of that, aren't they? These motions, these angers, this chryspad, unproductive, that have practiced..., have been wrong. But keep going, keep going, because as long as they continue they will never be a political alternative to anything; not to independence: they will not be a political alternative. They have been very bad examples in the forms, in the respect of the institutions, and they want to discredit this Parliament, but they will not succeed. I give humility the quietest recommendation, shut up. This is regenerative, it's rewinder of values and reflections to return a renewed word. But I'm afraid they won't, so they can justify their great damage. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.131.0	Let's call the vote. Meanwhile, I would like to ask whether there is any separate motion for a vote. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Pedret?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.132.0	Yes; separate voting petition from points 5.1 and 5.4, which can go together, and 5.5 and 5.6, which at the same time can go together between them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.133.0	Thus, 5.1 and 5.4, of one band, 5.5 and 5.6, of the other. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.134.0	Yes; to request separate vote of 5.3, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.135.0	Well, we'll go to the polls. We will vote first on points 5.1 and 5.4– 5.1 and 5.4. The vote begins. Points 5.1 and 5.4 were rejected by 39 votes to 76, with 16 abstentions. We now vote on points 5.5 and 5.6. The vote begins. These points have been rejected by 39 votes in favour, 92 against and no abstentions. And we're voting now on point 5.3 – 5.3. The vote begins. 5.3_has been rejected by 63 votes in favour, 68 against and no abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 76 against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the question to the Government about its support for the Assembly of Elects of Catalonia]] [[302-00163/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government about its support for the Assembly of Elects of Catalonia. Presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, to expose it has the parable of the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.136.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members and Members, will allow me to begin the defence of this motion claiming that the institutions of Catalonia are at risk; but it is precisely the President of the Generality, the Government and the same President of the Parliament who puts them at risk. They are at risk because they are giving appearances of legality and representativeness to private entities such as the Council of the Republic or the Assembly of Elects, which only represent separatism and certainly what you are: a Catalonia in which all Catalans were separatists. We did not have an example a few minutes ago, when a member of the Juntas Group for Catalonia asked for the opposition that the best they can do is to shut up. This is surely what you would like, not to have opposition and that opposition be silent. That's why you're standing at the Elects Assembly, because nobody's gonna bring them in there. So no. [[Some applause.]] So no, Catalonia continues to have more Catalans than separatists. So no, the legal, legitimate and representative institutions of the Catalans are the Government, the Presidency of the Generality, this Parliament and the Courts General. Who is considered a Democrat cannot participate in an entity that claims to supplant the Government of the Generality. Who is considered to be a Democrat cannot participate in an entity that claims to usurp the functions of this Parliament, especially not the Government, nor the President, nor the President of the Parliament, of course. Who is considered democrat can neither endorse nor silence before the use of violence as a tool to achieve a political objective. Certainly, this young man in normal conditions would not have felt much; he is, if I may, from Barrio Sesamo: two more, four. But, without being used as a precedent and for the first time in this legislature, I will give you reason in one thing: we are not in normal conditions, and we are not, because you are still trying to put political objectives without legitimacy and unilaterally, without attending to the democratic laws we have endowed ourselves with, also from this Parliament. They swallow a private entity like parallel and legitimate government. They participate in an assembly of elites that is only representative of separatism. Catalan rights allow and participate in demonstrations and blockages of infrastructure, preventing the freedom of movement of workers and goods. They charge against the security bodies when they defend themselves and defend the majority of Catalans who do not want the barbarism to announce their CDRs. They treat with impunity those who damage urban furniture, alter order or attack other people. They think the institutions are their property. The president went to court – previous monk, yes – to say that the law is the law, and causes alien shame. There will be rights of Members of this Parliament; in this legislature there are already two rulings of the Constitutional Court on violation of rights, in the previous legislature there were eleven. And when they don't like us to shut up, or call us to order – sometimes this legislature – or expel us – they've also passed us to two Members. That is why it is necessary for this young man, at least to tell them that his attitudes have nothing to do with democracy and that it is you who, persistent in these attitudes, put at risk the common institutions of Catalans. They now have a new opportunity to regain responsibility, as well as institutional responsibility, supporting this young man. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.137.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Maialen Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.138.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, good afternoon to you all. Well, Assembly of Elects and Council for the Republic: if it were not because it was such a serious and serious matter, I would think that it was before the title of a film; but no, it is another little bit more, a meeting attended by the President of the Generalitat, Mr Torra. Not so at the award ceremony held last week, the award ceremony to Mr Luca de Meo, president of the SEAT, who reminds him that he is a company based in Catalonia that generates thousands of jobs and generates millions of euros of investment. I understand that committing alleged illegalities must constantly be very tired, and, of course, go to this award-giving, in which are representatives of the economic and social world of Catalonia, in which are representatives of other political parties, such as the president of my parliamentary group, Mr Carrizosa, is not very pleasant for the president of the Generalitat. I am sure that Mr Aragonès, who is not here at the moment, will be delighted that the President of the Generalitat will delegate his duties to him and that he will have to deal with not entirely pleasant comments, which certainly did not exactly make the ball. That's right, the one who pays a few thousand euros more a month is Mr. Torra, and the one who has shielded his life salary by royal decree, it's also him. [[Greetings.]] And, gentlemen of the PSC, I have not heard or seen you scandalize yourself with this double Parliament, this double institution invented by the separatists who usurp the functions of the legally established democratic institutions, which they did, were scandalized, with our motion of censure, to which they did not join. It must be that at this moment that they are negotiating with Esquerra the Government of Spain is not convenient, and therefore also the Government of Catalonia. I remind you that the degradation of the Catalan institutions began there in 2010, when Mr Montilla came to a demonstration against the Constitutional Court's ruling on the Statute. The highest representative of the State in Catalonia delegitimizing the body that had to ensure legality. And this government I have to recognize one thing, and it is its imaginative and visionary ability to create chiringuitos so far in advance, of dubious utility, which normally serve to plug amiguetes, and as we see in the Union of Accounts, to use excessive and improper use of public money. On October 26, 2016, three years ago, they created this duplicity, long before even the illegal referendum they held the following year. And this patrimonialist conception of the institutions by the separatists, who believe that they are theirs, that Catalonia is theirs alone, has caused a degradation of them. It demonstrates, once again, that you do not believe in representative and plural democracy, but rather in a successor of populist democracy which seeks to govern itself above any democratic principle and the legally established. The principle of representation that separatist parties constantly despise is reflected in another fake entity, contrary to the democratic and legitimate institutions of Catalonia, such as the Parliament, and which you manipulate at your will, as you wish, when it suits you and, yes, to which you come, among others, the President of the Government, the President of the Parliament, Members of Parliament, Mayors, Members of Parliament, Senators, etc.. And, gentlemen, who pays for this? Three years before October 30, 2019, they activated this unofficial body, apart from the legal system, which distorts our institutions and those which they intend to usurp, you already knew, as Mrs Budó informed us in her speech at the previous plenary session, here present, that among its functions would be to denounce the repression suffered by Catalonia by the Spanish State, a manifesto of rejection of the sentence, which in 2016 had not yet jumped from the whole legal system. A dialogue and negotiation table with the State would be required. Look, this is latest. It would work for self-determination, and where it would defend the social, civil and political rights of citizens. And I ask this Government: what exactly are they referring to? Do you also defend the Catalan constitutionalists, their insanity and yours? Do they not trust their own institutions that they must create a complementary assembly for Parliament and the Government? Or we will simply have to find out that it is another place where the typing system works, that is, what is commonly known as a finger, that is, a magic bar that tells you, "you have touched 80,000, 100,000, 120,000, who gives more? Catalonia deserves institutions that are up to the standards and offer citizens and their businesses legal and political stability, and not irresponsible ones that cut roads as the wreckage bill goes up, destroy jobs and ruin its people. All citizens have obligations, we are subject to law enforcement and respect for their institutions. And if not, otherwise the law of the jungle would prevail, and I remind you that Spain is one of the best democracies in the world. Gentlemen, in politics you can do absolutely anything but ridicule. Of course, we will support the PP motion and I have nothing more to say. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.139.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Socialist Group Unites for Progress, it is the return of Mr Ferran Pedret. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.140.0	Thank you, President, Counsellor, Members, Members. Well, in just a few minutes of debate, at the end of the previous motion and in this one, that for the PSC two failures of which they know as the ballman, which is to present the opponent's arguments in a deliberately erroneous way for then to have, let's say, an option easily rebuttable. Nor have we ever considered that it is possible to study Catalan school in catalá – it is a question that it is absolutely psychedelic that the PSC has this position – nor, as far as we are concerned, is it possible to say, Mrs Fernández, that we do not act in Parliament, which is where we correspond, against which we seem, in fact, to attempt to build an institution parallel to that of the Assembly of Elects or the Council for the Republic. I will be kept from lying to the Members and Members of the formations that support the Government, who know that on this subject we have presented a multitude of parliamentary questions, we have made motions for resolutions, etc., always obtaining the same type of answer, which is: "Well, this is associations, private entities with which the Government and parliamentary forces do not have, let us say, an official link and therefore it must be respected that they work as private entities that they are. Well, we have said, on more than one occasion that it seems to us that this is the answer that they give us here, but after they present these initiatives publicly try to coat them with all the pump of really existing institutions, which they would say in past times. And, therefore, we are concerned about the fact that someone is proposing the replacement of the Government of the Government of Catalonia for a Catalan Government Transsunction, which would be the Council for the Republic, or that it would seek the replacement of that of conformity with the State is the place where the conjunction of Catalan citizenship, which is the Parliament of Catalonia, is represented by a transsunction of legislation which would be the Assembly of Elects, where it represented only a certain great current of our country's political thinking. And, indeed, we are concerned about this, and we have also said this from Parliament's Faristol, from here, on various occasions, in past legislatures and even in the course of the debates of this late, when we were concerned about, let us say, this willingness to build a parallel institution. Because, look, we are very aware that in the context of various crises that have converged in the past few years at home, a social and economic crisis, the consequences of which still last, an institutional crisis of representation, of credibility of institutions, and a crisis, let's say, of the model of territorial organization of the State, in all this, has eroded something that is fundamental because democratic institutions can function, that is that a vast majority of citizenship confers on its institutions, at the time that they are legitimate and representative, that is, that they grant this character to be legitimate and representative. And we are aware that a good part of the people who support independent options are in this thesis respecting the combination of the institutions that come from the Statute and the Constitution. But what we have also claimed from the independence that you understand is that your attempt to build a parallel institution or your attempt to build an independent Catalan state, is based on what you tried to approve on September 6 and 7, and after October 27, 2017, or with a new intention, is condemned to open an even deeper crisis between the citizens of Catalonia respecting the legitimacy and the representativeness that they confer on these, let us say, these institutions, or transsumptive institutions. We would open a very deep crisis. We're in it. Mirin, before I cited Article 20 of the Bonn Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the And say, finally, that you recognize the citizen and the citizens can resist, if there is no other way to do it, against anyone who intends to tempt or destroy these principles of state order. This is not in the Spanish Constitution, but it indicates to what extent it is important that there is a vast majority of the citizenry that recognizes that their institutions are legitimate and representative, and that when someone tries to build institutions that are not widely recognized as legitimate and representative, the political problem is of great magnitude, because then we move into a scene of social conflict and political conflict that is very difficult to resolve. We have said this on more than one occasion and we insist: this is why it is a great mistake to try to proceed, this is why it is a great mistake to try to proceed; apart from the political idea that each one defends, what causes is a conflict of great dimensions. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.141.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Mr Marc Parés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.142.0	Well, thank you, president, deputies, deputies. Well, Mr. Rodriguez, you were beginning your intervention, saying that the Catalan institutions are at risk, and the only evidence that we have of annihilating the Catalan institutions we have lived it does not go well with Article 155, and it was you, the ones that destroyed the Catalan institutions. No, it didn't apply here, you know very well where Article 155 was approved, which approved it and the consequences it had, so you don't come to defend Catalan institutions when they're the first ones to suppress it. This, in fact, is a young lady who proves a little more that you don't have a proposal for Catalonia. When they ruled the state, their only proposal was repression, it was not everything, it was the law bite and it was 155. And now that they're in opposition, they still want to ban everything: they want to ban parties and now, in this case, they propose that the President of the Generality not participate in acts of private entities that are not of their grace or that the President prevents the celebration of demonstrations and concentrations. And they do it in the name of democracy. Miri, here we are, here he won't find us, because we understand that democracy, above all, is dissent, it's confrontation of ideas, it's being able to oppose power, all power, economic power, political power, judicial power. This is the basis of democracy. To do so in a non-violent manner, effectively, but you continue to insist on demanding a sentence that has already occurred by active and passive, and, therefore, in the end, what you want is to build a report of a reality that is not like you intend to do. Deia democracy is confrontation, it's dissent, and not only from the protest but also from the counter-power, from the civic self-organization, from the community self-organization. This was the 1st of October, but this is also the self-managed social centres or co-operativeism with the will to transform society. Now, certainly, the counterpower of the institutions is a democratic anomaly, and that's what we share. And, in this sense, the creation of parallel organs that are not chosen for the citizenry, and that leave more than half a country in the band, we understand that it does not bring any solution to the political conflict that it saw today Catalonia. From respect I say this to the elected authorities and their freedom of action, because they have been chosen as elected officials and, therefore, if we want another course of action, we must change governments, but while we must also respect their decisions. From this respect, we believe that it is a change of course, a change of direction to the Government of the Generality, that it recognizes that this way, that the one-sided way and that the way of creating a complex array of different organs that nobody knows very well for what they serve and what they do and – let me also hide – that with motions like these one is giving them a credibility that I believe they don't believe themselves, right? In the sense of which is the utility of all these spaces..., we believe it is time to say that this is not the way, that it is a change of course, that this has not worked and that, therefore, it is true that Catalonia has longings, has aspirations of greater sovereignty and greater freedom, but this is not the way to achieve it. And, therefore, we need to put aside the process and open a new stage of dialogue that led us to find real solutions, solutions from broad consensus. And also a change of direction to the State, like a government of the State that begins to make proposals for Catalonia, which you have been absolutely unable to do. Because the solution is not an unworthy feeling that social and political leaders are taking on and threatening the freedom of expression and manifestation of the city council. The solution is neither that the Constitutional Court censor the freedom of this Parliament to talk about what it wants. The reality is that the 78 rule is exhausted. The reality is that there is a vast majority of Catalans and Catalans who believe that Catalonia's self-government levels are insufficient and that the autonomous state no longer works for them, and that, therefore, what are new proposals, are new solutions, to which we can only arrive from the dialogue and from the inclusion of the society's conjunction, from the vast social and political majorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.143.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.144.0	Thank you, President. Well, we'd vote for this young man if we could just deny it, huh? I, for one, will explain what this denial would be like for us. We, in the motion, would say that, effectively, before the absolute blockade of autonomy, before autonomy as one of the main problems to advance towards independence, effectively can build an alternative institutionality; an alternative institutionality that is a counterpower that expresses the popular sovereignty that is willing to fight and defend amnesty, self-determination, social, civil and political rights for everyone, that the State does not only respect but attacks. And we would defend that effectively this alternative institutionality could be built – not only, but it could be built – from the municipal power, from the municipal reality and from the municipal political representation as well as from the democratic representation, from the legitimacy and from popular sovereignty, as it could be – such a time, we will see whether this is possible or not – the Assembly of Elects of Catalonia, as this body of this popular sovereignty from the municipalist base, in order to build the conditions that allow us to advance towards self-determination, amnesty and civil rights. But this motion would also say that Parliament should like the President of the Generality and the Government to effectively condemn the acts of violence that are carried out in the streets – those that exercise the security of the State and the Squadron Mosses – and therefore we would call for the cessation of Councillor Buch, we would call for the repression and the collaboration of the Mosses with the security of the State. We would also call on this Parliament to urge the Government to prevent the celebration of fascist demonstrations and concentrations and of extreme right-wing groups, as we would also call for the Generality to be effectively withdrawn as an accusation against those retaliated in response to the sentence. And finally, effectively, and in paraphrasing his motion, we would say that the Parliament of Catalonia urges the President of the Generality, the President of the Parliament and the Government to safeguard the dignity of the institution which they represent, and to do so, to refrain from using their institutional responsibilities for long-term acts which return to the institution which represent the dignity which they deserve, inescapably defending the social, civil and political rights of Catalans and Catalans before the Spanish State and, indeed, defending the right to self-determination and civil and political rights for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.145.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Congressman Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.146.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, counsel, "repress the appearance of legality, "to stop participating, "to prevent demonstrations, "to personate himself in all judicial proceedings..., these, Mr. Rodriguez, are treasuries of his young lady. And of course we could incorporate in your knowledge the word "prohibit", eh? , who you love and who know how to conjugate so perfectly: they are specialists in prohibition. That language – that language – that which you use not only in the expression, let us say it, written, but also in the verbal expression constantly in this Parliament, tries to generate a situation of preventing..., of imposing, of expressing a violence towards the manifestation of our rights. In short, a political, judicial and economic repression in all areas of this country. And, therefore, you, your model, what you have tried to impose is to end the expression of political dissent, and this is what is all about; if not – if not –, tell me what the law sees: its law bites, which served to ban not only the independenceists but the tweeters, cantaries, all expression of political dissent of the State. How many people have not been retaliated for this bite? You, that's what traps them and that's what pulls them out. You, who once did this burial of honor to the dictator – unfortunately, the dictator has continued, in all his expressions, he has continued in many of the state structures: judicial, political, social –, they are those – they are those – who continue to hold the ruling class, they are those who try to influence the political class, they are those who come from the expressions of the BOE, they are those of the Ibex, they are those who do not want it to end with the status quo. And that's exactly what we're trying with this independence process: ending a status quo that is perpetuated by the Franco dictatorship. They ask us not to associate with each other, they often demand that we be inhibited from the social point of view, and they want – surely – that that sentence is made alive: "Do as I do and do not get involved in politics. So no: we tell them to be in institutions, to be on the street, to be all the way, because we have won, because we have the right. And if anything bothers them, which is what I thought of some previously seen expressions, it's not that they think they're associative entities – what's the problem with creating associative entities? –, what bothers them is that more independence is the majority in institutions. And that does hurt them. And that's what anger is about. And some say that if the mayors... they'd already like to have mayors so they can complain and express... [[Greetings.]] Some of you are heresy and dolphins of the most lerouxism of this country, which has continued for time immemorial. They want to divide this country, they want to continue dividing this society and they say that we share: it's not true. The creation of structures, the creation of entities... free, huh? And someone asked: "How do you pay? So we fund all the elected bodies: all the elected bodies that we participated in the Assembly of Elected Bodies helped to finance it. She's not a waitress, she's not a colocationr, she's not a xiringuite, as you say; she's a popular expression element, she's an expression and force element that we wanted to demonstrate. It is an expression against the judgment of this Constitutional Court. Someone was criticizing if President Montilla had manifested himself. Obviously President Montilla was against the ruling of the Constitutional Court. And he already warned: that ruling would lead to this situation, the political disaffection of Catalans respect the State. And so are they. And you're still the same. And keep keeping up this talk of "come, and so-so, and so-so!" - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So we will also continue to insist: we want to have a free country, where all the rights are guaranteed, which is not limiting the rights, as you want. And they're talking about dignity. Dignity? Do you know what it is, Mr. Rodriguez? The dignity of the institutions is not to have 420 charges to the Valencian Country – only to the Valencian Country – condemned, charged for political corruption, starting with the presidents of the Valencian Generality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.147.0	On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Congressman Marc Solsona has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.148.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, advisor... Mr. Rodriguez, I say Marc Solsona, Soc Deputy to the Parliament of Catalonia, Soc Mayor of Mollerussa, Soc Democrat and I can't tell you where I can participate and where I can't. This is why principles of individual freedom are called. [[Greetings.]] I respect yours. And I'm asking you to respect ours, too, aren't I? In this sense. But I'd like to make a thank you first. Thank you for introducing this young man. Thank you for allowing us to speak in your Parliament – in your Parliament – of the Assembly of Elects and the Council for the Republic. [[Greetings.]] Basically, because today we are talking about the Council for the Republic, the Assembly of Elected Carrecs, we will vote a few points on these two concepts pursued for the Electoral Board, and the question is: if we have presented a motion to vote « Council for the Republic or « Assembly of Elected Carrecs, can we do it? Would the table be threatened? Have you done any reconsideration? Do we have a problem? [[Greetings.]] Because the question is: Mrs. Roldán finished her intervention in the motion saying: "And we will ask in knowledge of the prosecution this motion. I don't know, will they, too? Will they put this People's Party motion in public prosecutorial knowledge where is it about Consell for the Republic and the Assembly of Elected Carrecs? [[Widow's remorse. Greetings.]] I hope not, really, I hope not, huh? Actually, I don't want to, I'd just miss it. One more thing – because that's what happened, and it's repeated and we've talked about it in other motions – in this Parliament we say we can't talk about everything, Mr. Fernández – and then we'll vote, huh? We won't just talk, and we'll vote for everything, too. We ask ourselves: do Catalonian voters have the right to seek space to speak, to debate with freedom, without being threatened, warned, persecuted, tried and sentenced? Home, I think so. The Assembly of Elected Carrecs is the answer to a political position of rebuying the sentence, and then I will read the agreements of the assembly. The Assembly of Elected Carrecs is the political response to the constant threats and proposals for the implementation of a new 155, for the suspension of the Parliament of Catalonia and for the de facto intervention of our institutions. Yes, Mr. Rodriguez, it is true that our institutions are at risk. It's true, they're saying it every time, especially for the 155 app and constant threats. The Assembly of Elected Carrecs is a response of strategic unity, of common front of the Catalan electorate. I understand that two-thousand electives at a time adopting a consensual political stance must be a ridiculous thing. In fact, you in your question last week said: "Well, this assembly or this plethora, with a decrease to more than two-thousand elects who attended a free act of assembly..., seems to me to be quite correct in this sense. The Assembly of Elected Carrecs, contrary to what has been said here, does not in any case have a substitute character of our institutions. In fact, at point 3 of the agreement, the following is said: "We support popular mobilization and continue to defend the sovereignty of Catalan institutions. Therefore, neither supplant nor usurp. What we're saying is that at the assembly, which doesn't have this replacement character, what we're doing is we're organizing. What we are doing is articulating, exercising governance to react... in the event that there is a political response from the State towards the Catalan institutions, that we may be organized to fight, but above all to defend our rights as elected officials, that we may be usurped and violated. Therefore, I am very grateful that we can do in your parliamentary office, publicly, that we can carry out the agreements of the Assembly of Elected Carrecs of the past 30 October, where the following is said. First: "We reject the judgment given by the Supreme Court in relation to the fact of '1 October 2017, which violates the civil and political rights not only of persons convicted but also of the citizenship of this country, and which condemns the expression and exercise of these rights, freedom and political dissent. According to them: "We call for amnesty and demand the freedom of political prisoners and prisoners, the return of exiles and exiles, and the fictitiousness of judicial, political, social, economic and police repression. Point 3: "We support popular mobilization and continue to defend the sovereignty of Catalan institutions. Point 4: "We require a state dialog and a _negotiation table to return the conflict to politics. At the same time, we call on international mediation to achieve this goal. And point 5: "And we work for self-determination and a political solution that allows Catalans to decide the political future at the polls. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.149.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the exams, has the new word the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez. [[Widow's remorse.]] Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.150.0	Thank you, President. To give, then, answers to some things that have been said in a transversal way. Says: « The responsibility of 155. I don't think so. Do you think that at the top of the government – at the top of the Spanish government – you like to apply 155? Not one. [[Widow's remorse.]] Not one. 155 applied because there was a government and a parliament that provoked it. That's why 155 was applied. Therefore, it is not the responsibility of who applied it, but it is the responsibility of who provoked it. Precisely why we present a motion saying: "The institutions of Catalonia are at risk. Because those who put them at risk are precisely the Government and the President of the Generality with their attitudes and their actions. Now, in the background I think you are perfectly in agreement with the motion, because you say to us: "Listen to me, democracy is dissent and confrontation. Just! Dissension and confrontation, which is what we do in this Parliament, not in the Assembly of Elects, which is an aplech of separatists. Why am I leaning? It's not a pejorative word, and you know that it's Lleida's land that perfectly knows that it's a lot of aplecs. [[Funnel veils]] And it's not bad news. Listen to me, nobody wears the counter, so they make an assembly of elects: because they don't want to hear the opposition, they don't want there to be dissent, they don't want there to be confrontation. We do, that's why we defend Parliament. To Mr. Bloods, of course, I have to say that his imagination—not just his, huh? I already recognize that it's part of his group, it's more of a collective thing – it's important, isn't it? Because you made an intervention here putting in my mouth things that I didn't say. Basically, everything. Things I didn't say. You said to "prohibit, repress, I don't know what... If you don't say anything about this, this young man; nor in my intervention, I didn't say it. So, well, it's fruit, I insist, of his imagination. Listen to me, and he accuses us of wanting to end the political dissent! [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] To us that we are bringing to Parliament a complaint that the Government is participating in an organ that has no democratic control and that has no opposition! And we are the ones who want to end the political dissent! If it is you who participate in this body that has no opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.151.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.152.0	And I finish – thank you, President – accepting the speech presented by the Ciutadans Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.153.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Pause and voice of the background.]] Thank you, Congresswoman. Vote separate from point 1. Any other petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.154.0	We ask for a separate vote on the 2nd and 2nd sides, which can go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.155.0	Okay. Any more petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] All right. Let's vote, then, the number one point of this motion. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 55 votes to 68, with 8 abstentions. We're voting points 2. and 2.d. The vote begins. Points 2.c and 2.d were rejected by 39 votes in favour, 76 against and 16 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 76 against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the increase in unemployment and the deceleration of economic activity]] [[302-00160/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the increase of unemployment and the deceleration of economic activity, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.156.0	Okay. President... deputies, deputies, this young man is working on four pillars. The first pillar are proposals in which we urge the Government to restore legal certainty broken by the different governments of the Government since October 2017. The open situation challenging the constitutional legality and institutions of the State has ended up generating a situation of intense hostility and violence, breaking the coexistence between Catalans and Catalans and the rest of Spanish. We ask, therefore, that the return to the seny, the return to coexistence, the return to the reality in which the great majority of the citizenry lives, be expressed as forcefully as possible. The bill that Catalonia has to pay for the October and November albums will cost at least 138_million euros, without taking into account, among others, the 2_million losses added by the Restoration Gremi or the billing in shops and inn, which in Barcelona assumed a drop in the activity of 60_per_cent. To contextualize, with this money we could have devoted the same research as the Marathon of TV3; we could have financed seven years of municipal children's homes; it is the equivalent of three years of the assumption that it is intended to provide care for children and adolescents at social risk; it is the full payment of the increase intended for employment programs; it is to multiply by seventy times the increase presupposed for protection, prevention and control of the natural environment and biodiversity. All that money's cremated. It has been shown that the situation of legal insecurity has frozen, in the best of cases, many investments. At the moment when the winds of what they're at are when they see the harmful effects in our community. You can deny it, but reality is coughing up. Vegin how social security affiliation has evolved before and after '1 October 2017' compared to Madrid. [[The timer shows the camera some graphics.]] This is the potential growth loss. This morning he was wearing it on the cover of El Mundo. From '1 October it is clearly seen as the white line, which is the Community of Madrid, overcomes and widens the gap with our community. This year, among other things, there has been a 51_per_cent increase in the number of workers assigned to regulating shippers; it could affect five_thousand people this year. They have increased the causes by accomitantly in the social courts; during the first three quarters, they have been 13.76 compared to 3.75. Barcelona is the province with more competitions of creditors: 2018 a 30_per_cent more than 2017, and we carry already more than 1,500, and by the end of year 2,800 and 2,900 are expected. In the construction sector, contracts were reduced in the second half of the year by 7.1_per_cent, and projects and works contracts fell by 60_per_cent in Barcelona. Who are our proposals? Training, technology and more training. The technological challenges facing the European economy as a whole go through a significant improvement in the training of workers. And we can't be left behind: centers like Martorell can't be permanently stuck for lack of political consensus between the councils of Work and Company. They come to terms with each other and do what they have to do. Dual vocational training is the success model of most European countries that enjoy youth tourism taxes very much under Catalan and that we should replicate involving social workers, entrepreneurs and trade unions. Pillars 3 and 4 refer to the three axes that we consider to be hubs for the Catalan economy: trade, tourism and, of course, industry. The first are strategic sectors for Catalonia. We cannot allow it to be placed in perill thousands of places of work. That is why, among other things, we are asking to improve the financing conditions for the modernization and digitalization of small trade, and that it is promoting a campaign to raise tourism that compensates for the negative effects that our image has had on the world. As far as industry is concerned, we ask that it be thought in a strategic way. Public authorities must encourage investment. And for this reason, legal certainty is so important. I can give you another example: Tesla; the election of Germany as the final destination of a megafactory that will give work to more than two thousand people and from which Catalonia fell among other reasons for the climate of political instability and the images of the fires in the street. Another missed opportunity of an infrastructure that would help anchor the rest of the automotive sector. In the inquiry it was made element of the face was energy. That's right. And now, thanks to Mr Sánchez, to whom Esquerra is planning to give support, it will still be more thanks to the tariff for the waste of all users: 7,000_million euros per year from the renewables sector. We're really worried about the future of our children and girls, of everyone, and that's why we're asking them to act now. And if not, leave a place where we are willing to accept these reptes. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.157.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Unites per Avançar, and in order to defend the papers presented, has the words of Mrs.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.158.0	Thank you, President. I think that when we talked about this subject, and we haven't talked about it many times in this House, I always say the same thing: we should look at the two cares of the currency, because there are two realities that exist in Catalonia, not as painful or apocalyptic as the citizens explain, not as well as the independenceists or groups that conform or support the government. We have... – and in order to set an example – it is true that Catalonia is growing the dispatches of regulation of occupation, and this is a matter that we should be concerned about, and we should be concerned about, and the Government must put all the resources and efforts in place, but it is also true, therefore, that we have an excellent search system that occurs in all the world's regions in the first places. And I think it's good to recognize things that are good, and, on the other hand, things that don't work. And I think it would be good if we could all do this honest exercise of seeing the two who are fond of this coin. It's true that what's been going on since 2007 doesn't help the economy, basically because the economy – and we all know it and we've listened to it many times here – calls for political stability and legal certainty. They are two things that seek money; the money is poruc and they seek political stability and legal certainty. If one territory cannot offer it in a clear, forceful, certain way, then it is certain that the economy decides to go to another place. Inversions, etc. What are the investments coming to Catalonia? Yeah, but it's true they're lost, too. And this Tesla plant that could have come here or, now I remember, the European Medicines Agency, so they're lost investments, huh? Surely for many reasons, but in any case what the administrations have to do is lay down the conditions to facilitate economic activity. And one of these conditions is political stability and legal certainty. If we don't set these conditions, and others, then we'll probably lose opportunities. It's hard to assess who we've lost, because we don't know for sure, but we should try to make the most of our possibilities. Mirin, therefore, in this more general analysis we may agree or share a share, therefore, with Ciutadans, but always looking at these two parts of the coin. You make a very long resolution proposal, which deals with many issues, many proposals are very generic, which I would like after it is detailed, because we all agree that the public employment service is better, we all agree to devote more resources to industry, we all agree that trade and tourism is strengthened... Well, maybe the government doesn't care, it isn't there. But, in any case, it's true that it would be nice to get a little bit more into the details of the proposals, because in general, so we could all agree with that. And it's true that the government has to prove it in the presupposition, with a presupposition; in the presupposition it's where black puts on white that are their priorities. And, therefore, here we can see – as we don't have any since 2017, we don't know, who are their priorities – if the industry really is. Because, yes, it has approved a national pact for industry, but I believe that it does not have the resources necessary to make the industry our growth engine nor do I think it is expected. Therefore, yes, it is true that what we would like – as long as we say it – is a government that governs, a government that prioritizes those key elements for economic growth, but also for social progress, and for social justice, and we don't have it. And, therefore, I may lack this part in this motion, but it is true that most of them can share their generalities, say, with the proposals they make. We made a single point in point 1.6, because it seemed to us, therefore, that this 6 was a little bit strict, wasn't it? Sometimes I tell Ciutadans' fellow MPs that a bit of rigour needs to be put in the texts we present. Clearly, what you say in this 1.6 is that it is requested, that you submit requests for civil liability for those summonses when they produce aldaruls. Many times the summonses deconvene at a certain hour, because it's over, and the albums are produced later. I don't think it would be fair or just that these summonses are asked for; many times things happen hours later. We've made a point that we think goes more to the bone spring or to solve problems, that is, that it is immediately, promptly, the complaints made by the Mosses to concrete people who have done things and who sometimes, therefore, do not go there, right? , and those buildings have involved urban furniture or private goods, as was the case, for example, with shops or hotels the last few days of October, right? And, therefore, it is a task that I hope will be approved; I think it goes a little further to the bone spring to solve some problems that we have. And agree with you that you seem to be lying that the President of the Generalitat doesn't have a minute to go to see trade or hotels that went through, so all these villages during the month of October.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.159.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, it is the turn of Mrs Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.160.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., some of us thought that after the election campaign and the elections of November 10, the citizens' lords and ladies were going to start a new stage that would leave this kind of incendiary speech of horror film that brings little benefit to our municipalities and our cities and our economy, which they are so concerned about. Because with this story all they want is to make believe that our streets are the streets of Baghdad or the streets of Syria and that here we can neither go out on the street nor go to work. Indeed, it is time for them to stop their show strategy, to start coming here with real proposals for dialogue, consensus and solutions. Today they have come once again, and the companion said it, with generalities, without a clear proposal for Catalonia, without a real proposal for the unemployment and deceleration of the high economic life and that, once again, they again show that it is a party without proposals, without solutions, that they are only looking for conflict, therefore, to survive. I'm going to the motions. You speak in your four-point motion. One, on legal certainty and political stability, does not bring anything new, they continue with the account of the disaster... And therefore, as you will imagine, we will not vote in favour of any of these points. On the improvement of training and the labour market, and more specifically on the adaptation of vocational education curricula to the needs of the business fabric, we fully agree with you, and this is not the first time that your need has been discussed. On the management of the vocational training centre in Martorell, we also agree with you. It is the Government of Catalonia that has to deal with its responsibility and must provide the training centre with the existing resources and tools, guaranteeing the service to companies and workers in the sector. It is the Government that has to make the strategic decision for the centre to be fully operational by 2020, making Martorell's vocational training centre operational as an integral centre of Catalonia's vocational training and qualification system. As on other occasions, we also support plans to increase the presence of women in technical and scientific careers. On the training check, we will vote against, because we already know that your maximum illusion is that our life is in line with a policy of the check: training check, health check, education check, university check. And, as you well know, from Catalonia to Comú Puermos we are totally opposed to rights being used as a business opportunity for private training companies. We also agree with you in finding successful experiences in analysing our relocation programmes and improving them, but we understand that the United Kingdom is not the best example, when relocation services are outsourced and there are companies that benefit from it, and when for a long time money has been paid to businesses for every unemployed person placed, simply, by making agencies do not devote great efforts and focus on placing the unemployed more easily reintegrated into the labour market. That is why we have presented'smenas' and we thank Mr Martín Pachamé for accepting them. On trade and tourism support, you present issues that already exist, such as the ICF agreement and the existing aid from the Consortium for Trade in Crafts and Fashion of Catalonia. On support for industry, the Government has to recover the lost time on the National Pact of Industry, which is not fulfilling and to date only 20_per_cent has been executed, as well as on climate change actions – but indeed, not with photo, nor pre-announcement, nor wet papers, gentlemen of the Government –, Catalonia's Energy Transition Act for now, not for the next legislature, a law that guarantees a sustainable economy and guarantees jobs. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.161.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Jordi Orobtig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.162.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Pachamé, with all due respect, above all the ideological divergence, the quality of his parliamentary work, and also his kindness and cordiality at the time of telematically negotiating the points that we have presented, I must say that the apocalyptic line that they have presented to us as a young man, and also his own intervention, could have been signed by Pedro Piqueras of the best time, huh? [[Rialles.]] I believe that the terminology used in describing the social, political and economic situation in Catalonia is dantesca. What we find innovative is that in this proposal for a resolution it is accepted in time, they say: "The climate of social conflict installed in Catalonia since 2017_has progressively deteriorated the economic recovery. But if ever since 2014 they've been giving us the knack with the initiatives of independence being haunting the economy of this country! And since 2014 the economy of this country has denied them day after day. What is not legitimate is, as you have done, that we are talking, in a globalized world, about wanting to unlink an economy like Catalan from that of the rest of the world and the trends that are observed there. But you divided this proposal into different blocks, and the main one, I understand, was the one that had the most people, the one that interested them to talk about, was legal security and political stability. Look, let's say another time: the Government of the Generality, the Vice President, all the Government's advisors, also the parties that cost the Government, we have repeatedly and emphatically condemned it to any type of violence, to any. We're still waiting for you to condemn the October 1 rape. I think it would be a good time to do it. The government has always guaranteed the security of the rights and assets of Catalans and of those who are not, but it has also grown old to be able to exercise in freedom all the civil and political rights that are inherent to them. And that's what bothers them: that they repressed her that they don't just work, that they promote, that she's not effective and that the Catalan people continue to press for what she considers just and that her institutions, like now the Parliament and the Government, are veterans and defenders of these rights. In his mind we are a linguistic, cultural and even political anomaly that can be eradicated. I think we find ourselves with a new farce of Ciutadans, who always accuses us of living in Matrix but who is also rebutting in his particular Matrix, and who, speaking of imaginary mons, I think his proposals in the matter of security and exercise of civil and political rights want to lead us all to the country of Frozen, huh? , a frozen country, inert, or, worse still, Mordor. It's their Matrix, today more than ever, disconnected from a vast majority of Catalan society, as this election shows. His objective is, as always, to criminalize the political rival and justify repression. And they do it with authoritarianism hidden people, with language filled with commands and a non-existent violence; even with measures that involve positivizing a resolution proposal that already exists de facto: one law for the independenceists and one law for the majority of the citizenry. Because if anyone has to suffer from the lack of legal certainty in this country, it is all that is thought and thought to be independent. If you're a neo-Nazi who assaults the city on October 9th in València, don't ever pass anything; if you're demonstrating in Barcelona in favor of the independent prisoners or against a sentence, what you can expect is provisional detention. Therefore, logically, we cannot listen to the speech that you have come to express in your motion for a resolution. As far as most of the political proposals you make in the area of the economy are concerned, we will vote in favour of all those who deserve to be joined; but we also have the feeling that the vast majority of them are initiatives that are already promoted by the government. And I don't want to finish my intervention, even though I would have many more things to say, without talking, for example, about the field, in this case, of vocational training and the need to promote enrolments in all those technical and scientific and industrial degrees that require or require a higher presence of women, because their enrolment percentage is less than 4_per_cent. As you well know, in this area, from the department it is being promoted that 50_percent of the enrolment is subsidized by the department, that is, they are due to long-term actions for the promotion of women in this area. Finally, I would just like to wish that, in the future, the proposals for a resolution that are being put forward will contribute to the development and economic activity of our country, and it is useful in terms of dialogue, consensus and effort to put this country on the table. Because it is obvious that with this discursive line the only one they do is break our country, promote division, and, in any case, generate the necessary social and economic pau so that we can develop properly. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.163.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of the deputy Mònica Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.164.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, we are now in front of a Ciutadans motion on unemployment and deceleration of the economic activity that I have shared with MP Orobtig, to whom I thank the work that we have done folded; a motion that followed the line of this parliamentary group forever. And I'll explain. A motion of those points and subpoints, which revolves around a subject but which incorporates, and should not, a few more. We have heard them say in infinity of occasions: « You – it is to say, we – « live hidden behind the process, « you – it is to say, we – « you speak only of the process, « you – it is to say, we – « and your chiringuits, worlds of Matrix, etcetera. But, of course, you are looking for a Ciutadans motion on unemployment and economic deceleration, and you are beginning to read, and here we are: « express condemnation, « violent actions, « vandal attacks, « sabotage, « boycott, « violent acts, « provoked fire, « destruction and looting, « violent riots and actions, and the mantra« radical separatist groups perpetrated by radical separatists, radical separatist commands, and the truth is that there was a lack of the verb « jail, I confess. [[Rialles.]] I have not even moved on to the first point of the motion, which is extensive, with sub-points, which call 'Legal security and political stability in order to state that, according to them, they speak of unemployment and the deceleration of economic activity, but, as always, they take advantage of the points of their work manual. Those for you who were motivated by their birth, and those for us who are motivated by their davalada; even all theirs are tired of their way of doing, of which I am annotating their manual of operation. I don't know how to urge the government because the very honorable President Torra and Vice President Aragones condemn the rape and the incidents that have occurred. Both have done so, as have other members of the government and also the parliamentary groups we support, on multiple occasions. But, you see, one more time: we condemn violence and aggression, go against whom it goes against, and it is produced against whom it is produced, and we vigorously defend that the independence movement has built years and is not violent. But, you know? "If we get it, I'll be back. Forty-four years – rest in pau –, Trini Forés. [[Greetings.]] And I could extend'much more [[applause persists]] and give them much more arguments to explain our rebuff to these points and subpoints, but, although you know them, do not forget, once more, their manual of operation. Points 2, 3 and 4 are of better formation and labour market, of support to trade and tourism and of support to industry; themes that directly affect councils and that can be addressed with the opening of the eyes and departmental transversality. With regard to vocational training, let us know that it will always come from the hands of the needy of the country's business fabric, and, therefore, the priority is to build a Catalan VET system, which transforms society and strengthens the economy. Always explain, better and better, what FP is, to sum up, to multiply. With this sum, it also works to promote the registration of women in areas of the industrial sector, with bonuses and to stimulate their interest. We are women, we are women of language, culture, teaching, rural world, but we are also women of science and technology, women with diverse vocations and leadership skills; women who want to be free and brave. In relation to point 3, we reject everything they insist on doing because we already have the requests they make, as they do now with the ICF. For example: "Institutional campaign to support tourism? Permanent contact with markets and consulates, and they have neither alerted nor planned to warn of recommendations not to travel to Catalonia. Maybe it's what you want, that you do it and that you feed the image that many of the Spanish television programs offer, where you've been palming it. Support the country's industry? Totally and absolutely. Just listen to Constellera Chacón: National Pact for Industry, R & D support programs, investments associated with the improvement of energy efficiency. « To propitiate the return of the thousands of companies that have left Catalonia at the root of the coup to democracy? That's enough. The answer: Royal Decree 15/2017, urgent measures in the matter of the mobility of economic operators between the national territory. A red catifa, a slut. The Government of Catalonia has already requested the derogation. And who picked it up? Do you know the sound of the phone when you communicate? So, that; as always. And a final reflection – and I finish, President – you pass what you are talking about and what you are talking about, you operate following the manual, your working manual. And the manuals, if they're not well done and well thought out, end up with weapons of self-destruction. They've noticed. They'll let me tell them that it's much better to work following an ideal, at least this one and allows, every night, despite the fact that what you long for remains difficult, at the time of going to sleep records that you're on the right side of the story. And if I may, today, a great thank you to Congressman Romeva for all these years dedicated to the Parliament of Catalonia on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.165.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the words of the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.166.0	Thank you, President. To speak from the escho, and basically to explain the meaning of our votes. On the first of the blocks, the self-identification«Legal security, obviously, we will not support all those points that the only one who wants is more repression. Also announce that when it comes to legal security, what we find in some of the points or subpoints of this first apartment is all the contrary. Look, they just have to go to subpart 1.5 and 1.6 to see what is a wording that would generate legal insecurity. On the second point or the second apart, self-named« Millora of the formation of the labor market. Of the labor market, obviously, we cannot find much, among other things because we do not have competence on labor matters or on basic labour regulations, better said, but in that which is planted on the private management of the formation, with us they will not count on it. We will ask for separate votes on points 2.3 and 2.5, because we consider that we agree And on what is the other side, or rather the third block, the self-named ‘Trade and tourism, advance that we would vote in favour of point 3.1 because, among other things, the ICF already does, and, therefore, we went to look: 2012 there was a specific plan, 2015 there was a specific plan and, therefore, we would vote in favour, because it is already being done. On what it is to criminalize the protest and encourage the big guns, obviously they will not find us, this parliamentary subgroup. And the last one: about the fourth or the fourth block, we want to explain, about this. Look, we've enjoyed voting point 4.1 and point 4.4, but let's explain why we won't vote them. We always agree to give support to the industry, but in a context like that which we will start, in question certainly of weeks, of crisis, to give economic support, without any more, to the great industry, and which is not linked to the maintenance of the occupation, it can become that we finance from the Government of Catalonia accompaniments. This has already happened in the history of this country and, therefore, as these policies of support to industry do not accompany elements or clauses that guarantee the maintenance of the occupation, we will not vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.167.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.168.0	Thank you, President. They're gonna let me start this intervention by saying it's a big deal. And it's not a big deal for whom he presents it and the way he presents it, but because it would be very good, therefore, to be able to speak enough of formation, of commerce, of tourism, of industry. But in a different way, we need to talk about all these things because there is one other thing that conditions these things, and what conditions these things is precisely the fever of legal security and the lack of political stability. And it can't derail one thing from the other, unfortunately. Everything that has happened in the streets, mainly in Barcelona, Catalonia, during the month of October, obviously has its influence on economic activity, on the image of Catalonia and on the investments that are decided at home and, therefore, have an influence on economic growth and, therefore, have an influence on the creation of wealth and have an influence on the best social policy, which is work. And, therefore, necessary, in this motion, therefore, it has been necessary to link these questions of formation, trade, tourism and industry to the lack of legal certainty that this Government gives and the lack of political stability that this Government gives. And that's why our group will give support to the joint motion. Allow me to finish the intervention... because I have heard some voice calling for the repeal of the decree allowing the mobility of companies. Home, don't ask for a derogation from this decree, because it's not a decree to get companies out of business, it's a decree that also serves to get businesses coming. A little faith, a little faith in your own government. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.169.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers, Mr Pachamé has a turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.170.0	Yes; thank you, honourable Members. Mrs. Romero, we already know that it's very difficult to always be equidistant. In every way, I thank him for all the good things. I agree, absolutely, on the subject of the presupposition; without this tool it is practically impossible to think which is the real policy that the government will bring to term. And then tell him you knew he'd tell us we're tight, huh? , but I can also say that... – please, with a very good to–, I would say that you are looking at Article 4.3 of Law 9/1983, respect the right of assembly, and we could discuss who is responsible and who is not responsible. To Mrs. Yolanda López, I don't know what horror movies you see, but when you lose your job, and I know it from your own experience, you do live in terror, it is terror, that. The only thing we can say is that if we crack..., we only expose it on the table: reality is what it is and it's pure and hard, and it's what we describe. If they don't like it, then the truth is that they live somewhere out of reality. Mr. Orobtig, the difference is that what it is, and what it could be, and what it could have been... And obviously, if these scenes that we've been through are not happening, it's because their shot failed. If I didn't fail, we'd probably be in a much worse situation than we are now. We're in this situation precisely because they failed, they didn't finish their stay. I, respect Mordor's theme, I don't know... must it be Gandalf's? Can it be? [[Give me the applause.]] And respect the quality of professional training, tell them that it's so good that we only have a 25_percent youth force, and the truth is that we can be completely cohabiting and the sea of peace with these youth taxes. The truth is, we're doing great. With so much self-satisfaction we'll end up doing things that I might as well not say here. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.171.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Say'm, Miss Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.172.0	To ask for a separate vote. For one side the point 2.2 and for another the block that would be 2.1, 2.3, 2.5, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3. That would be a joint block.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.173.0	All right. [[Vidal Aragonese Chicharro asks to speak.]] Mr. Aragonese...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.174.0	Yes, President, for a separate vote on 2.3, which has already been called for, 2.5 and 3.1. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.175.0	Mrs. Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.176.0	Yeah, '1.6, there's a 1.6 and a 1.6 bis, which are these two separately. Thank you. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.177.0	Mrs. Segovia... don't pose me easy, no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.178.0	No, it won't be people. We would ask – it is possible to vote in bloc, but it seems to me not – point 1, 2.4..., full point 1, 2.4, 3.2 and 4.5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.179.0	We'll vote for each other, despite the fact that she's a long man, all points, because we'll end up before. We vote, therefore, on point 1.1. Let's start with point 1.1. The vote begins. Point 1.1 was rejected by 55 votes to 71, with no abstentions. We're voting 1.2 now. The vote begins. 1.2_has been rejected by 55 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. And we're voting now on 1.3. The vote begins. 1.3_has been rejected by 55 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. We're voting for 1.4 now. The vote begins. The 1.4_has been rejected by 55 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. And now we vote on 1.5. The vote begins. The 1.5_has been rejected by 55 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. And now 1.6. The vote begins. 1.6_has been rejected by 39 votes in favour, 89 against and no abstentions. We now vote on 1.6 bis– 1.6 bis. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. We're voting 1.7 now. The vote begins. The 1.7_has been rejected by 55 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. We're voting 2.1 now. The vote begins. Point 2.1_has been approved by 126 votes in favour, 2 against and no abstentions. We're voting point 2.2 now. 2.2_was approved by 63 votes to 3, with 62 abstentions. And now we vote on 2.3. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously, 128 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. And we're voting 2.4 now. The vote begins. 2.4_has been rejected by 55 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. And now 2.5. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously, 128 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We're voting 3.1 now. The vote begins. 3.1_has been approved by 65 votes to 63, with no abstentions. And I think the rest of the points of the 3rd can be voted together. Don't you? So we vote on 3.2. The vote begins. 3.2 was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. And now 3.3. The vote begins. 3.3_has been rejected by 63 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. We're voting 4.1 now. The vote begins. 4.1_has been approved by 126 votes in favour, 2 against and no abstentions. We're voting on 4.2 now. The vote begins. This point has been approved by 126 votes in favour, 2 against and no abstentions. We're voting 4.3 now. The vote begins. 4.3_has been approved by 126 votes in favour, 2 against and no abstentions. And we're voting 4.4 now. The vote begins. This point was rejected, by 63 votes to 65, with no abstentions. And finally, we vote on point 4.5. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. [[Intervention on the arrival of the Gypsy people in Catalonia]] Before raising the session, Members, Members, there is an institutional statement that the parliamentary groups have entered. I pray to the Fourth Secretary, Mrs Ribas, who reads it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.180.0	"On November 26 we commemorate the arrival of the Gypsy people in Catalonia. It is taken because on 1415, in Perpinyà, it was held in català to Thomas of Saba, son of Anthony of Saba. With this gesture is a recognition of the contributions to the culture and history of our land by the people, present in Catalonia more than six hundred years ago. Palau del Parlament, November 26, 2019. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-26-4401.181.0	Thank you very much. The session will be up until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock.
