ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.1.0	Good morning, the session begins. [[Expression of condolence and condemnation of child abuse]] [[Before I follow, therefore, I am left in my name, and I am convinced that in the name of the chamber, we are deeply dismayed at the tragic death of the Pineda de Mar swimmer, a fact that strikes us intensely and questions us as Parliament, as society and as the country.]] [[Let me, too, give the welcome to the Vergés Councillor, who today is reinstated after the maternity discharge: well returned, councillor.]] [[And to remind them, as usual, that the list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is included in the file of the plenary that all the Members and Members have, which, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules, will be substantiated this morning, as at the first point of the order of the day of this plenary session.]] [[Before starting these questions, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, the deputies, the deputies in this case, Raquel Sans and Adriana Delgado, for reasons of motherhood, have delegated their vote to Mr Sergi Sabrià, chairman of the Republican Parliamentary Group. And I also remind you that Members Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva have appointed Deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise their parliamentary rights.]] [[So, I also have to notify them of an alteration of the order of the day. In response to the request made by the Government, in accordance with Article 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the following proposal alters the order of the day, so that the question to the Government on university and research policy, which appears as at point 10, can be substantiated in the place of point 15. That is to say, the 10th to the 15th; the question to the Government about the separatist process and its consequences for all Catalans.]] [[Can we give this change to the order of the day for approval? (Pause.) Yeah? All right, so, so... Question number 10 will be substantiated at the 15th place; and Question number 15 at the 10th place.]] [[Ask the Government about actions to improve primary care]] [[310-00095/12]] [[Let's start, now, with the first point of the order of the day, which is the oral questions to the government. The first question is about actions to improve primary care, formulated by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The question is asked by Mrs Gemma Espigares. When he wants to.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.2.0	Thank you, President; well returned, counselor. We're still with a country that doesn't end, a country that follows the persecution; last week chasing mayors without a court summons, today, with Mayor of Alcarras returning to justice; with Miquel Serra. And so we ask him, from our parliamentary group, two things: that we continue to rise up and that we follow with the good government, with the good government that they have shown the last few days, also with the themes of salvation; also with the primary attention. And that's why we want you to ask him to explain to us the convenient second of the Siscat that they have signed and what few expectations there were. Explain to us, too, the 100_million euros that the government will devote to improving primary care and that it has given response, also, to the claim that there was in the street. Let us also explain to us the EUR 600 million that must be used in the next two years to improve the conditions of the excellent professionals we have in the health system. Some of these have been short-lived, others come mid-lived and long-lived. We're asking you, Counselor, to explain this to us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, has the word "Mrs. Alba Vergés", greeting counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.4.0	Congresswoman, thank you very much. And, first of all, let me thank all my Health Department team and also, obviously, the Vice President, who replaced me as a Health Advisor, and other advisors and advisers who have been able to replace me here, at the Parliament Hall, to attend to the petitions of Members and Members in this maternity leave, which I believe is a right to enjoy and is a right of the child, in this case my daughter, Anhel. And thanks to all of you I was able to enjoy it and enjoy it, so with the tranquility that all the mothers deserve. Well, you said it very well, honourable Member; the primary care takes care of us and concerns us, but above all it takes care of us, because we come from a very hard years and nobody escapes it...; a few years of presuppositionary restrictions, where the primary care has had a great impact and suffered a lot not only in infrastructure, but also in the conditions of professionals and health professionals working in the primary care. Since the last legislature we have already begun to reverse all these bad news and disgusts, with a new model of assignment that made you inject 13_million euros, taking into account a very important part that I think you have to take primary care, that are social inequalities. We put more resources there where social inequalities show us that we must insist. In the struggle, too, against labor insecurity. We want professionals to work with dignity and where they play, in primary care and at all times. And, obviously, we also promoted more investments, which we were able to visit and inaugurate: the CAP de la Mina, with the president; a new CUAP de Gràcia, the CAP de Santa Eulàlia, of the Hospitallet, which must begin. And, obviously, before this current situation of primary care, which we always say is the backbone of our policies, so we place it at the centre and centrality of our political action in this legislature. Because we are sensitive, the professionals; very sensitive, the professionals, because we have this political compromise that we also want to move to the assumption, and that is why we want a strong, resolute primary attention, that we are able to do so that the professionals are asking us and that we are identifying, that we can retain the talent at the primary attention, that we are all marked with a long-term strategy, agreed with the professionals, like the Enapisc, and that we are still working with them day by day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.6.0	Thanks, he will advise for these details; but also convey to him the grace of the sector; the grace because they have already incorporated professional, in this case, doctors and nurses, to work in the system, and this also allows us to continue to give the attention of quality that we give in this country. But also to explain those measures that do not have a direct economic impact, or such an important direct impact, and that also allows us to work better, such as self-management; how it is the management of infirm demand; how it is territorial equity and how it is also working for the concerted, which is the mixed model we have in this country and which also deserves the attention of this Government. Therefore, please and convey them, from the sector, also, these considerations and ask them to continue walking. These deputies will be brought to justice against democracy in this country and we ask the government what you are doing, too, this good task of government. Because in the end, we want all this to have a country of opportunity, and therefore, I also send it to the government to continue giving these opportunities to the most vulnerable people. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.7.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.8.0	Thank you, President. Yes, so this 100_million euros that we have put in and insisted on, that they allow these us to contract, that they allow recovery of DPO... (The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the Health Council and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.9.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] [[Ask the Government about actions to reduce the inter-initiation of teachers and enhance the competition model]] [[310-00096/12]] [[All right, let's move on. The next question is about actions to reduce the inter-initiation of teachers and potential the competitive model. Question by Gruppo Parlamentari republicà, by Mrs Mònica Palacín, when asked.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.10.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, the public education system in Catalonia counts with 71,865 teaching professionals, teachers and teachers, key to the education of our children and young people. From these, unfortunately, a 34_per_cent occupy places in interim, hoping to be able to consolidate their employment situation. I am sure that many of us know or have around us in this situation, and it is remarkable that they are professional in a vocation that, regardless of the type of place they occupy, work from the enormous responsibility of training and education. It is clear, however, that employment and recognition on the part of the Administration represents a compromise, a compromise towards the students, teaching teams, the educational community and a society that places education at the centre of public policies. Recently, we have known the call of 5.005 places of teaching staff, teachers, secondary and vocational training teachers. We celebrate this, and we are aware of the acceptance that this call meant to be so expected. It should be noted that the Government of the Generality places all the necessary tools to give support and security to teachers and teachers. Education professionals who have been clearly compromised with an education that helps to make the citizens able to intervene actively and critically in a plural, diverse and continuously changing society. This security, too, is evident when the work situation is more stable and when the same professionals recognize their skills, adapted during the years to the new realities of the classrooms. And this has an impact on the better education system in general, because it helps to create stable teams that can lead innovative, inclusive and quality projects. So, counselor, our question is: what actions will the department maintain to reduce the inter-initiation of teachers and enhance the competitive model? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Bargalló, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.12.0	Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, the Government's will is to place the inter-school in the public school around the xifra between 8 and 10_per_cent, which is the standard recognised for the OECD in the in-between doccent in the public office. For this reason, as you have said, we have called for 5.005 places of teaching staff: teachers of secondary education and technicians of vocational training. And it's the department's planning volunteer that, in the next three years, we can call three nine calls, so that, finally, we offer 15,658 teaching places, in these four calls. These 15,658 teaching places would mean arriving at this midjana, between 8 and 10_per_cent. If, moreover, this Parliament approves the government's assumptions, which can add new contracts, the government's intention is to place these opposition calls around 20,000 seats, in which we will settle it. At the time of this will to achieve the university's stabilization and, consequently, the establishment of teaching teams and, consequently, the possibility for educational projects to have a major strengthening from that stage, there is also the willingness, the demand – also explained in the call for objections – to modify them so as to adapt them to the competitive teaching and the competitive assessment. For this reason, the opposition alters the order of evidence, and places first the proof corresponding to the programming and, later on, the corresponding proofs to the theoretical part. And, in the same way, they decrease the pes of the theoretical part in the evaluation of oppositions and significantly increase the pes of the practical part in this evaluation of oppositions. It's just a first step because, when the state's legislation is changed, we still want to make far more competitive oppositions than we can do now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the functioning of health services]] [[310-00097/12]] [[The next question is about the functioning of health services. The formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Jorge Soler.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.14.0	Yes, very good morning; thank you, President. Welcome, again, counselor, we rejoice at your return, even though we regret that you come to this plenary with the same stories and listening to the same mermaid songs that so much scold. Because, look, we want to know if, when you're up, you know what the reality of the Catalan health system is. Because we ended the year with a vague precedent to primary attention, in which the government reached agreements and commitments that, weeks later, remain unfulfilled. And it's not that I say, look, today I moved questions from the sector – this sector that says so much that it appreciates it. And it's that, look at these agendas [[the clock shows a few fulls to the chamber]] They're midwives and midwives that this week have a lot of patients cited at the same time; fifty-two patients and, many of them, scheduled at the same time. And that's to fix it, as I've said so many times, because it's unworthy of the patient and it's unworthy of the worker. And the workers ask him just that, that's the day-to-day, he advises: where are the reinforcements, where are the new agendas? And it's that the patients are asking time for their meth, and they're giving it to them from one month to the primary. And it's that it's possible that a lot of their travel companies seem to be smaller issues, but for us and Catalans... we don't think they are. Because the list of waits, in addition, continues to take place in Catalonia. Counsel, this week in Mataró, surgical interventions were cancelled due to lack of anesthesiologists. If the patients hadn't waited long enough, they still have to wait a lot longer when they send them home without interfering. Now we know there's another new health care facility that will affect more than a thousand professional people. So many years of unfulfilled promises, she's still slavish. And slave, as it was also foreseeable, that splintered, the influenza epidemic, will counsel. We have proposed here a plan to avoid col·lapses; col·lapses... but you have been dedicated to other questions. You've had a chance to see the past, councillor, of the Valley of Hebron, with more than twenty-eight patients in town there from gum to gum, and the same happens to the rest of Catalonia's hospitals. Counselor, reality is coughing. How do you appreciate that from this week's tour of the United States to you they're calling another health care facility? He has the unfulfilled promises of what he has just passed; that he can manage the influenza epidemic and not fire it; the emergencies of the hospitals he has coll·lapsades; surgical interventions cancelled...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.15.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.16.0	...and a growing list. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.17.0	To answer the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.18.0	Thank you, President. Many thanks, because it will give me the opportunity to expand that information that I wanted to say before. Yes, that's right, I talked about the discomfort that's been going on for the last few years, and I talked here and I came here to the Health Committee saying that we had a very clear priority, that it was a very big, professional one. We had a spot, that's right. And we solved it. And who are the results of this vagueness and who are the results of the political initiative that we have promoted for the professionals and for the primary attention that we have put to centrality? One hundred and thousands of euros for the ICS, in which we reduce the overload, to what you speak, to what the professionals have told us, to what we have identified and put in place to reduce the overload and improve the service; to contract now 250 new jobs, that there are already some who have arrived in the system, that are thirty new jobs; to recover the DPOs, that was a long demand of the professionals; to summon opposition to stabilize two thousand people in our system who were in a temporary and precarious situation, and we want to stabilize these two thousand people in the system. And in our background what we contemplate is: wage increment and wage recovery reverses the detail, labor recovery of the days, 100_per_cent of the ITs, wage equalization. And that's okay with us asking for professionals day by day and on the street, because we have an active escort for these professionals and we want to improve primary care. We don't want to have a two-speed primary, and that's why... the previous Member asked me about the Siscat convention. So yes, the Siscat Convenience is important, and we have already said that the best we've managed to establish and agree for the ICS will be transferred to the Siscat Convenience and around. The contract of these thirty meths has already been made; it is to say, we are already starting to implement all this better of the ICS that we will bring to the Siscat, in March it will already start to establish. We'll do a follow-up and we've done a diagnostic of the situation in the ICS primary. And for the first time in the PIUC – which you also talk about, which is this incidence of the influenza epidemic–, for the first time we allocate 3,28_million euros dedicated exclusively to the primary, because they can make the agenda more flexible and attend spontaneous visits and strengthen homes, which people, with the influenza epidemic, need most. Therefore, we are working intensely. And I say to you, "I've bonded to the process, working for salvation, too."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.19.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.20.0	...of our citizens is the best for the Republic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.21.0	The next question is about the system of protection from childhood and adolescence. [[Ask the Government about the system of protection from childhood and adolescence]] [[310-00098/12]] Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, asks the question Mrs Naomi de la Calle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.22.0	Counselor, at the end of last year I asked him about foreign minors without family references who disappeared from the child protection system in order to end up sleeping on the street. You denied the reality, denied the large number of minors who had escaped. A report from a media outlet has recently confirmed what we have been reporting since 2016: that there are minors sleeping on the street, even though you deny it. Two months and a cold wave later, they're still sleeping in the sky. Will they recognize today that they have repeatedly lied about these minors?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.23.0	To answer the question you have the word Mr. Chakir El Homrani, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.24.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, if the one who asks me is if I've lied, I'll tell him no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.25.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.26.0	Counselor, you denied that minors slept on the floor of the City of Justice, denied that they slept in the police stations, denied that they slept in the councilhouse, and denied that dozens and hundreds were escaped to sleep on the street. And in the end it has been the professionals involved, those who suffer day by day the lewdness of their counselors who have had to go out to face and denounce what was happening. Are the mossos lying? Does this opposition lie? Are Trade Unions Lying? Do Social Educators Lie? Are journalists lying? Do the neighbors of the neighbourhoods who frequent these children lie? Is everyone lying but the government? Or are you the ones who are constantly lying? Do you realize that you cannot continue to rule on the basis of lies? The first step in solving a problem is to recognize it, and until you recognize what really happens in the child protection system will already allow us some to doubt the announcements and their promises. And what work plan do you have? Because he lives in paralysis and doesn't move until the opposition squeezes his nuts. Do you realize that they have not called up oppositions to social educator until Citizens put the issue on the table at the Children's Plenary, which since the 1990s had not called oppositions? It's just that you don't move a finger until the opposition comes and reads you the chart. What are you and your high offices doing in the office all day? Waiting for the opposition to come and tell them what to do? Wake up, Mr. Counsellor, that, with the large number of high offices you have, some – some – could devote themselves to making a forecast of the future, because in addition to patching up what needs to be done is medium- and long-term planning. With their lewdness they have loaded the child protection system, and we will not recover it as long as they continue to lie and deny reality. Stop improvising, stop riding the opposition and get to work. Although, well, you've already shown that working isn't going with you. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.27.0	To answer the word the counselor has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.28.0	Thank you, President. Benvolguada deputada de la Calle, miri, porteam debate, talking, explaining what we are doing, as we organize ourselves, as we are planning, from the iniciators of this legislature. You know perfectly well, even though you want to stretch the words and get into the dynamic of ‘don't think about an elephant, that we have located and explained the difficulties that the protection system has had at the time of the generation of automatic seats as they arrive. We have explained and worked in coordination with the Department of the Interior in order to be able to solve what is the gap between the generation of places and the arrivals. We've worked hand-in-hand with the entities. Even if they have the bar to suit themselves and assume themselves as their own union victories, because the agreement on social educators of the Department of Work was not with you, it was with the representatives of the workers, educators and social educators of the department, with which there is no such bar. Besides, we are aware that we have generated more than 2,500 seats, we are aware that there are car dynamics that we are working together with the Barcelona Assembly, we are aware that we do not run closed centres, that we do not want to manage closed centres, that we are not anyone to limit freedom and that what needs to be done is a follow-up process, and that we continue to do it: with street educators and work hand in hand with the assembly. We are also aware that there are problems linked to mismanagement, on the part of the State, around administrative regularization. It's triguen eleven months... They can't laugh. I know they're still getting older now that they're running with the support of the extreme right and with the programs of the extreme right in Andalusia; we'll discuss that. We'll discuss what you're doing in Andalusia with regard to the rights of these minors. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We're aware that we're working with the short look, the medium look and the long look with the entities, with the unions, with the municipal associations, and that we're going to get out of this. We are so aware of what the centers are like that we make the transparency of inviting them, and this divender you visited centers for our invitation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.29.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.30.0	That's it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.31.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the closure of the Gallina Blanca factory of Sant Joan Despí (Baix Llobregat)]] [[310-00090/12]] The next question is about the closing of the factory of Gallina Blanca to Sant Joan Despí. Formulate the question, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, the lady Yolanda López. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.32.0	What does the Government of the Generalitat intend to do to defend the seventy workers at the Gallina Blanca plant in Sant Joan Despi who can lose their jobs in the face of the agreement between the city council and the company to make an urban ball?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.33.0	To answer the question you have the word Mr. Chakir El Homrani, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.34.0	Thank you, President. Benvolguada MP... I think they're also here – greetings – the representatives of the Gallina Blanca workers... From the first moment we notified the intention to move the Gallina Blanca production centre that is in Sant Joan Despi, we've been talking to both the company and the workers' representatives, to the unions, to see how we can help address this reality; a very complex reality that means moving these places, forty-two direct and the rest, to the seventy-one indirect, around the application of the Gallina Blanca consignment. We are collaborating so much with the parties to the negotiation process... We are well aware that the negotiation process is very complex, because of the situation it is. And we will continue to involve ourselves - from our working authority, from our mediation and from our interlocutors with the workers and the business.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.36.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor, and good morning, that before I forgot. Actually, Mr. Counselor, this is... we're in a very unfortunate situation. It is very regrettable that there are seventy families in vilo, who live with concern and uncertainty in view of the impact this imminent decision, of moving to Huesca, will have on their personal lives and their personal careers. And we are all aware that it is a purely speculative decision, because both the company, as well as the plant, and the group of Agrolimen declare great profits annually, do not declare losses. You say, I have seen in statements, that this is an irreversible decision. And I ask you: Mr. Counsellor, is there an agreement of the Generalitat and the Town Hall of Sant Joan Despi to requalify the land by losing jobs to seventy people? What kind of sovereignist government are you, who turn your back on workers in Catalonia? This government has not only shown us that it is not with the workers, but that it is stoning one of the fundamental pillars of our economy, such as industry, a sector that contributes 22_per_cent to the Catalan economy and that you do nothing to prevent it from ending up turning industrial soil into urbanizable soil. We have seen how you have put sticks on the wheels so that 30_per_cent of the housing was not affordable. And now we're seeing how they turn their backs on Gallina Blanca's workers. Counselor, do you speculators cook them or enrich them? [[Give me the applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.37.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.38.0	I will try to be brief because she has introduced so many thematic areas so different that even with Councillor Calvet we have looked at each other, because she has found some elements of requalification that she knows perfectly well that they are not the competence of this department, but that the Councillor himself has told me: "I am not aware of this situation. And what I'm worried about is the exercise you're doing not getting into the middle of the question. The center of the question is that the decision, that the company says that it is irreversible..., that we are aware that the representation of the workers is asking, for example, that there may be transferred to the center of Rubí, not to the d'Osca, but in which you do not enter into the source of the question, in this source of the question that lasts several months; that the source of the question is when with the labor reform was changed article 41 of the Staff of the workers, which implies that there is no administrative authority, with which our role of empowerment is absolutely limited around the conveyors. And I've told them more than once and more than two, and they know they'll have our support: we make the change – and they've gone through too many months and we're still not seeing the change – if we don't, we can't help in all the decisions they make unilaterally.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.39.0	Counselor, time is running out. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the latest police action]] [[310-00093/12]] The next question is about the latest police action. Presented for the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, asks the question Mr Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.40.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Gov., deputies, deputies. The Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, conseiller Buch, surely recovered an algid point of international admiration and recognition from the neutralization of the cell of the tragic tempts of August 17 in Barcelona. I also take this opportunity to greet, emotionally, Javier's father, who is accompanying us today in this plenary. [[Greetings.]] As we say, they got a point of recognition and international admiration. They were, surely, the ninet of the eyes of the citizenry. But the following months, from the October 1st referendum, from the October 3rd, October 26th and subsequent months, from the citizens' mobilizations, were the object of political persecution on the part of the State and with the support of the Unionist political groups. We have witnessed, over a year, an attempt to wear down his image, reporting political follow-up; reports, some archives, for destruction of evidence and documents; accusations of being a political police, arriving until the situation, for Article 155, of the Commandments of the Mosso d'Esquadra, until the Honourable Councillor Forn. All accompanied by a court and a media follow-up that did not want to question professionalism and serve the country. Last week, on the 15th, we celebrated the news that the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, after a long investigation of more than a year and a half, with the operation Alexandria, held another cell, with detainees in Barcelona and Igualada ; a way also to restore its good capacity and investigative professionalism, and which is added to previous news: April 2017, the operation against terrorism also arrested Islamist to different Catalan municipalities; or 2015, the Caront operation, disarticulation of a cell also in Terrassa. Let us remember that in this case, with leaks by members of the National Police who put at risk the success of the operation because they were, therefore, signaling an infiltration of the Squad Mossos. Last week we saw how the Squad Squad Squad was investigating and disarticulating a cell again, thus saving the citizenry and at risk of alarm 4 times...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.41.0	Congressman, time's up. To answer... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He won't feel it, Congressman. You have the word, to answer, the Councillor of Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch, when he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.42.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Good morning, all of you. I share with you admiration for the professionalism of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra that you do not have here, but rather, and therefore, it is a fact of which we must congratulate and we must thank each day the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra for its professionalism and daily work. It's true they've been politically persecuted, we've said it more than once. He wanted to pretend..., and we saw it with the car of the case, to hear us, of the incinerator, like communication media, political stations and groups, even parliamentary groups here present, who wanted to put the saying to the Squad's House, placing them in a camp that is not the right one, that is that they are a political police. They are not a political police, they are a democratic police and they act with professional criteria. I also take this opportunity to give explicit support to Councillor Forn and all the agents prosecuted for October 1, because, therefore, as we have already heard, they will tend their legal proceedings. As for the operation, the operations of this generation month, I can tell you that Girona's, I can tell you that the Squadron Mosses instruct, investigate and always act with proportionality criteria, never over-act. I can tell you that arrests are fanciful in the way that they affect the people they detain less, because Girona I think it wasn't like that and, therefore, it's an operation of another police thing that I personally don't share this way of doing, and, therefore, I put it here on the table. With regard to the operation Alexandria, which is of the 15th generation, which is that of the Mossos d'Esquadra – of which I can hardly speak, enough – there were more than one hundred agents, six entrances and escorts to Barcelona, divided people detained: 5 people were detained for alleged terrorism crimes, of which 3 are in prison, 2 were removed from the passport. And there was also a parallel network that was, therefore, thefts and thefts by power in some way economically feeding this cell. So I want to thank the police for all the work they've done, all the work they've done to keep Catalans and Catalans safe for this cell. Thank you, good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the new regulation of transport vehicles with driver and taxi]] [[310-00094/12]] The next question is about the new regulation of transport vehicles with driver and taxi. Presented for the Grupo Parlamentari de Junts per Catalunya, the question is posed by Mr Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.44.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Gov., deputies, deputies. Counselor, from the past dive, after the Taxi Board, the citizens of Barcelona and also the ones we come to work and the visitors are patenting the consequences of a trip, both taxi drivers and vehicles with VTC license. The two have carried their protests to the street carving the Diagonal and the Great Way. We have read during the last few days positions for and against each other. We have listened, we have seen and, at last, we have participated in debates on mobility, on technological platforms, on working conditions, on the services of these taxi or VTC services for consumers, etc. It's an assumption that generates a lot of controversy because it has to do with the decision about how we move. Besides, counselor, we saw him meet, you and your team, with the sector. In fact, today we still see them, and also find themselves with representatives of the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, as well as representatives of the economic and social fabric of the city. And also with public transport operators to ensure a good service in Barcelona. We know that the conflict is not closed yet, and that until this morning, when the assembly is held from eleven o'clock on, the government will not receive the taxi drivers' response to the later proposal that is on the table. But we would like to know for what reason the Territorial and Sustainability Council has decided to legislate on this matter, with what criteria and what is expected of the decree being drafted. We would also like to know whether they fear that this order in the VTC sector will harm any of the parties or citizens. From Juntes per Catalunya we would like to know also what plans for the future the Government has in the field of mobility that allows us to meet the needs of Catalans and Catalans in an environment that evolves so quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.45.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.46.0	President, thank you. Member, Mr Ten, thank you for this question, which is very up-to-date, because indeed, as you said yourself, so from here to a station you have to hold the taxi sector assembly to finish determining whether or not to raise not so much a vacancy as a stalled employer. It's not a vacancy, because it's an occupation of the public street without you serving the least; but in any case, yes, we are hoping that this will happen. I don't want to address this collection more directly or the VTC collection, because yesterday we were able to explain the proposal made by the Government of the Generality. And in any case, we are left to the expectation that the taxi assembly, the sovereign assembly, will decide whether or not to raise this occupation of the public street. But, in any case, the Government of the Generality will push its regulation forward. Why... – I asked myself – why we decided to act now. We're acting out of responsibility now. Because this is a government that governs and, therefore, pulls forward what needs to be done to regulate all aspects of social, economic life, all aspects of everyday life that affect citizens and citizens of this country. I do not want to link it to the very long list of laws, decrees and royal decrees that the State has made, that it has developed the State and that, somehow, has conditioned us any regulation that we can make like the Government; but yes, indeed, we now have on the table a real decree that was approved on September-October of the past year and that still has to be processed as the bill of the law. In fact, we are hoping that some political groups also present in this hemisphere will stop blocking their processing in the Congress of Deputies as a bill of law, and we can process and introduce documents, and from this royal decree we rule. Government that governs and regulates; does not regulate against one or the other, regulates in favor of mobility, regulates in favor of citizens. And rule proportionally. We have introduced concepts of minimum pre-contracting time, which is a novelty, but which is perfectly caught up in current legislation and also in comparison with European jurisdiction. Therefore, this decree that we want to approve in brief, a few days from now, will go in favour of a better service for the citizen. We believe that this is not the only thing we need to do, we need to go further, and what we have offered both to the taxi sector and to the VTCs, and, in fact, we offer to the citizenry is to do...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.47.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.48.0	...a full law of... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.49.0	Thank you. [[Question to the Government about the increase of robitoris in habitats]] [[310-00091/12]] The next question is about the increase of robitoris in habitats. Presented for the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar, the question is presented by Ms.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.50.0	Thank you, President. Benvolgut Counsellor, good morning. I am aware that you are aware of the situation that many municipalities are living in the region with security problems. The increase in home robberies has increased from midjana to Catalonia by 20_per_cent. In the Basic Area of Mataró Police is between 30 and 40, and many of these, moreover, pass with families inside. It is to say that this is generating a lot of anxiety, a lot of anxiety and problems, obviously, of insecurity among the citizens. To municipalities such as Mataró, Argentona, Dosrius, Órrius, Sant Vicenç, Llavaneres or Caldetes, this concern is especially greasy, we could say, as we know, the lack of effectiveness of Mossos d'Esquadra, but also the difficulties in arriving, many times, at the place of the robbers. That is why many times we are seeing how it is, often, forcing or leading to the organization of veterinary patrols or some municipalities to plant themselves horribly. Counselor, you know perfectly well that you are responsible for public safety in Catalonia and we would like to know how you intend to ensure the safety of the people and our lives.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.51.0	To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.52.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, the increase is concretely 10,3_per_cent, huh? , from robitoris to habitatages the year 2018 respects the year 2017. And, concretely, we have three lines of work: one is the specific operating plan for housing, the other is an action plan and territorial operational plans. We focus on arresting people who, so, well, do this kind of crime, right? But especially in organized criminal groups that are behind this large number of robberies. And, concretely, 13 operations against organized criminal groups were in the year 2018, of which 63 were detained and 80 were resolved at this time. When a group of these criminals is stopped, obviously the low number is very low, because they are professionals of the robberies that even have an international mobility – they come here, do the work, to hear us, and go to other countries – and, therefore, the object is also to detain them, like criminal groups, because this way we lower in a significant way the number of robberies crimes inside the house.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.53.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.54.0	Counselor, I'm sorry, it wasn't clear to me if you really think you're taking more steps to ensure security. I say between 20 and 40, that it is the data that publishes the department; you tell me 10. It's the same, we won't get out of it. The situation at these times in many Maresme municipalities is absolutely insecure. There are important problems and the veins are organizing or through whatsapps with those who have been informing about the differences and what is going on in their street – whether they come in a different car or two hooded guys – or on veterinary patrols that are at these times patrolling some of the Maresme municipalities from six in the afternoon to two in the morning. And that, counselor, you will share with me that we can't afford; we can't allow you to follow the views that guarantee security, because security has to guarantee it as responsible for public security. I wanted to ask him three very concrete questions. We will validate today a decree for a call for 750 places of movement: are you dedicated to public safety? Is there going to be more calls for seats? But, beyond that, there is a year and a half left for these new calls to be effective; I would like to know if you are proposing alternative measures in this transition, in this year and a half that remains until we have these effects on the street, because insecurity grows, and you, counselor, what you need to do is to guarantee this security and not allow the eyes to follow what they want to guarantee...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.55.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.56.0	...and that we don't even go to private security... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.57.0	I'll get back to the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.58.0	Thank you, President. Well, I don't either... you did a report that looks like the police are doing nothing, right? Miri, there are coordinated arrangements at the regional level, police presence saturation at the second five places and at the second five policely interesting addresses, to hear us, control of access to public transport, that many of these people use public transport as mobility; a specific group has been created to the General Commission for Criminal Investigation that is in charge of investigating these criminal groups... So he's acting. You know that we have a pilot proof concretely in a Maresme municipality – if you tell me about Maresme – that, let's say, is the participation of people of private security doing a very determined job; in the next few weeks I will concretely visit Maresme by also, so, put on the table all the device being made in Maresme, right? Therefore, we are working and working in a firm way; it is not a phenomenon that only passes to Catalonia, it also passes to other rights, and, therefore, we are all acting in a very intense way. And respect the calls, yes: we asked the Spanish State to make 750 moves with a call for this year 2019, did not give us an answer and the Government of the Generality had to be spoiled and with the support of all the departments we got these 750 seats...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.59.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.60.0	...of moves to the 19th.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.61.0	...time is running out. [[Ask the Government about the influenza epidemic]] [[310-00092/12]] The next question is about the influenza epidemic, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The question is posed by the honourable Member Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.62.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, well returned. One more winter, and even though we've been from the last communities to join us - there, the flu is already epidemic in Catalonia. As professional hashtags say these days, the grip is already here. We would love to be able to talk about foresight, prevention and patient care, but one more year, unfortunately, we will talk about the collapse of emergency services, the lack of resources, the inefficiency of the National Emergency Plan and above all the over-efforts of the professionals who dragged the chestnuts from the fire for a year more. He will advise, bearing in mind that the worst is yet to come, as they say, we would like to know if they intend to modify and improve the approach of this year's influenza epidemic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.63.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.64.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, you know perfectly well that the system is ready for the influenza epidemic. And it's true: we're already in an epidemic phase, we're already in more than a hundred and two cases for every hundred and a thousand inhabitants, and that's why this year, more than we've done in the last few years, we've added 2 million euros more, up to 20 million euros, to this health care boost when there's so much in our emergency centres; an increase of 2 million euros that you've obviously translated, too, of different ways. I have already explained this before: EUR 3,28 million for the first time put directly into the primary school to reinforce that they can make more spontaneous visits – because they are not there, because it is a reality – and to reinforce that this home care that needs to be done from the primary school to follow all their chronic patients, can be done in a more complete way; EUR 3,1 million, too, to social health care, because emergency services are not only hospitals, it is all that care we do at the socio-health level, also at the level of primary care. And obviously I want to talk about the Plan, too. The incorporation of the Planuc did represent a very great better. And so they say from the same hospital emergencies. For the first time hospitals look at their emergencies, there are no plants and emergencies in a winged way; they look at them, their emergencies, and, therefore, they are able to improve organizationally within the same hospital. The territorial operating committees that have established this Plan, which agrees with all professionals, also see reinforced and also help in the territory to deal with the influenza epidemic, because it is true: 72.7_percent of people who enter the territory due to the influenza epidemic are not vaccinated. And here I also want to insist on prevention, which you said before: in the prevention that you had to explain to people and above all to the most vulnerable collection – bigger than fifty-nine years, pregnant women and obviously the people who suffer from chronic diseases – that vaccination, and more than this year the shocks coincide with the vaccine – the shocks that coincide with the vaccine – is very important and has to be established, because 54_percent of majors of sixty-four years are not vaccinated, and that would also help us. And I want to get to the city that, apart from hospital emergencies, we have primary care, we have 061 and we have this whole city at our disposal. And if you want to be next to the professionals, also tell Minister Borrell not to attack them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.65.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.66.0	...and don't say lies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.67.0	...time is running out. To answer, again, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.68.0	Thank you, President. Miri, to defend the professionals the first thing to do is to fulfill the commitments; then, give them all the resources, and attend to what they tell us, because they know it. Because, look, you defend the Plan a lot, but I'll tell you that for the second year the result has been proven to be absolutely dumb paper. The same professionals define it in a very clear way when they say: "Miri, great planning stakes that have no positive effects on the population or on the professionals. This is what the Plan is: great planning. I'm a little surprised, and I imagine that the citizenry much more than I do, when they start talking about structures, planning, when in reality what they see every day is what they see in their own emergency room. Miri, the flu is annual, and we know it, and we'd love it when the flu epidemic comes to us – with prevention, with anticipation – and so it's not in the past that we started to skip all the agreements we've made and that, instead of being twenty-four hours in an emergency, which is what we have to be, it turns out that today, today, in a hospital in Barcelona of 156 emergency patients fifty-four times more than twenty-four hours, and the oldest one hundred and thirty hours in an emergency. And in another, eighty-two patients had more than twenty-four hours waiting for a bed. You're talking about a 20-million boost, of which only 3.2 – and only 3.2 – came to primary attention. It may be the first time, but it's insufficient. Because you know as well as I do that if you were to deal with these emergencies in hospitals, you could be resolved in other centers if you had resources and conditions. And that's what we don't have. I appreciate that I'm talking about prevention and I'm talking about vaccination, but that means political will. It can't be that, if you take so much care of professionals, less than 20_per_cent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.69.0	Congresswoman, you're done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.70.0	...professionals are cowlings of the flu. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.71.0	...time. [[Ask the government about the forecast for toilet waiting lists]] [[310-00099/12]] The next question is about the forecast for the waiting lists for sanitation, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The question is posed by Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.72.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, congratulated on your motherhood and well returned to Parliament; you see that we had hoped for it with candles. Today we have had the opportunity to talk about the situation of primary care, the space that there was, the hole that they covered. We want this to continue, and therefore solve the problem definitively; they have another front, another wave of agreed primary care meths. There has also been talk of the influenza epidemic; we recognize that an effort has been made in relation to the previous year, but they continue the tense services; the centres, the emergency centres, the CAPs, the professional ones, they continue to be tense, and therefore, appreciating the effort, the effort is insufficient. And there's another important element in relation to sanitation that hasn't come out in today's control session yet, which is that of the waiting lists. Now that we already know the sealing data of the public health waiting lists of the year 2018, we would like to know what value the councillor has in doing and what measures she intends to take to respect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.73.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.74.0	All right. Thank you, President. So I'm going to tell him that we're always making constant value, that's to say, always analyzing the data from the waiting lists, always looking where it can get better and always insisting on doing so, and that's why we've proposed to make a law decree for accessibility, which is important. And I would also like to know, before you, if you share this accessibility, given that you vote that you do not vote for the universal right of salvation, and therefore this is the first accessibility that must be guaranteed in our country, in which this accessibility we want to guarantee it with equal access and fair access, and that is why we will introduce, apart from clinical criteria, also social criteria that make those people have an adequate waiting. Let's not just say the number of people who wait, this time they wait, if it can be adequate and if more than the waiting time is with quality, informed and above all facing the citizenry. In these things we are working, as in the amalgam of things that you explained to me before. Therefore, all the intention of this department to continue working on the waiting lists.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.75.0	Thank you. To answer, again, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.76.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, what universality are you talking about to the 715,000 people who are currently on waiting lists in Catalonia? Miri, the year 2018, in relation to 2017, there are 170,000 more people – 170,000 more people – in waiting lists of interventions; the year 17, 163,000. In diagnostic tests, they also increased from 105,000 to 116,000, and in initial consultations, from 421,000 to 428,000. In relation to the rest of the communities – data from June, which are the last ones we have –, Catalonia is the second-largest community with more time to wait for the first consultations; the first, for example, in gynaecology, with a hundred_days of waiting, or in urology, with a hundred_days of waiting. We are also the first community – in terms of interventions and consultations – in terms of people on the waiting list, and the third community with more time..., interventions, casually also – 175 days – gynaecology. Listen to me, we'd like it to be planted once and for all who are the problem, how to solve it like trying to have a presupposition, because in the end it's a presupposition question. And they ask you not to tell me about the approval of the assumptions, because this will in any case depend on the government, on the majority that you can have in this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.77.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.78.0	...and the majorities that I can tend to... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.79.0	To answer, again, the word has the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.80.0	Congressman, whose waiting list are you talking to the people you want to leave at the door of CAPs and hospitals? [[Some applause.]] What kind of waiting list are you talking to these people who don't allow them access to health care? Therefore, we have always said: absolute transparency in the waiting lists. I don't compare myself with other territories of the Spanish State, I don't compare myself with autonomous communities; I teach you how to count and who are the criteria for including in the waiting lists and then we can compare them. I care that the waiting lists in our country are transparent: they are public, you can see them and you can give me the data here today, because I can't repeat them, but the fact is that we have increased the interventions by 3.2_per_cent, because it is true that there are more people in the waiting list and we are making this effort to increase the surgical interventions. I'm telling you that we're preparing this accessibility decree, and I'm also telling you that 94.1_percent of the patients on the waiting list are within the set deadline. And I repeat: you don't have, the Spanish State, regular terms of reference; we do, and by order, and we know all the centers, and we can follow. And we said that we would do quality audits, give us a score and also give us the margins of incidence. And what are we looking at? In the 9.3 that takes Vall d'Hebron over...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.81.0	Counselor, time has run out... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] A copy of the oral questions to the Government, let's go to the questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the names of persons retaliated since October 1, 2017 and about the map of repression]] [[317-00052/12]] The first question is about the political and social situation. I the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.82.0	Yes, Mr President, we have a year of parliamentary office and committees have been set up on civil and political rights, as well as the investigation into Article 155, and the Government that you have chaired has opened the Civil and Political Rights Office, a dialogue area that has constituted the Council for the Republic and the Council Counsellor for the Impulse of the Civil and Social Forum for the Constituent Debate. But from the beginning of the referendum process, Mr. President, there are more and more retaliatory people every day, thousands of retaliatory people, far more than political leaders: teachers, tweeters, singers, students. Today, all these bodies, commissions and spaces have served you because you are in a position – we ask you – to tell us how many people have been retaliated and, therefore, identified, persecuted and prosecuted from October 1 to today?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.83.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.84.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. This is a government that is on the side of freedom and on the side of the right to have rights unlimitedly and always against repression – always. Precisely, the enumeration of all these organizations that you have just put on the table I think that clearly this determined will that this government has to face repression; as, for example, filing a complaint, as we will present this media, against the action of the National Police take away from the speed that was made in Girona last week.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.85.0	Thank you, President. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.86.0	Yeah. At such a difficult time as we are living and at the door of the courts, we understand that this Parliament and its government must respond with the firm institutional touch and the widest possible; we ask for three things. The first – starting from the fact that repression has, in principle, to be repaired by means of recognition – is that I draw up a map with the cartography of all that repression that has been experienced in Catalonia since the process of '1 October began. Today, the bodies that are trying to denounce this repression do not have official data and must attend the General Council of the Judiciary. For another group, we ask you that the Generality is individuals as a particular accusation to all those causes that violate the civil and political rights of our people. And, lastly, we ask your Government to stop suppressing social movements with police violence and judicial actions, and withdraw its particular accusation from all those cases that repress and criminalize political dissent, such as, for example, as you said, UDG students, Vilafranca anti-feixists, women's companies of 8_000 motius, the 30-generation lawsuits of the failed ple or Can Lives companies. Miri, the other day the Anna, from Geneva, sent us a letter in which he said to us: "Explain why I am in this country, complaining that the Spanish State is responding with repression against the will to self-determine us; it is the best way to help us. These three passes we're assigning to you today, Mr. President, are on your way home from exile and you arrested her.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.87.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.88.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I think they're reasonable proposals, and I think I'd... I'd like to take the compromise on the first two. On the repression map, it seems to me that we actually have to have this map, if we don't have it yet. On the subject of the particular charge, I gave instructions at the time because precisely the Generality is personated in all cases where civil rights were violated in any of the assumptions. If in any case this has not happened, personally, I will try to guess what has happened, but this instruction is given and, therefore, we should have been presented as a particular accusation in all these cases. On the subject of group repression, I told him before: we will always be on the side of freedom and right to have rights and against repression. Miri, I have here myself, if I may, the complaint that we are filing against the National Police, this media, based on the violation of the law to freedom, to police action without legal authorization in the existence of a court case, and in a breach of the requirements of the Criminal Court to proceed to an arrest. Girona's fets can't let go with impunity. We..., I hope that the government delegate, Mrs Cunillera, when she is present in this Parliament, gives all the explanations that they keep quiet. Because if Mrs. Cunillera knew that these events were going to happen in any normal country, given how they had happened in these cases, she should have resigned. And if I didn't know him, I should have quit. Therefore, we want anyone who has suppressed the legitimate expression and the legitimate rights of any Catalan city to give all the explanations that they may have. That is why we ask the government delegate who is present in this Parliament and who gives them all. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.89.0	The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat whether the government governs and whether it governs well]] [[317-00053/12]] When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.90.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, do you think the Torra-Aragonese government rules and rules well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.91.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.92.0	It is difficult to answer this question if it is not said that yes, that obviously we do govern and that we govern well. That's why we're here, because we're dealing with problems, because every problem we're looking for is a solution, and every solution we find, in the measure of our possibilities, the best of answers – the best of answers. Fix yourself, if not, in everything you've been through in the last few months. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, we'll talk about it now; I suppose we'll talk about it. But let's face it: in each slot we have found a solution; in each problem, we have been there to negotiate it; always, looking for solutions. This is the Tarann of the Aragonese-Torra government – this is the Tarann –: looking for solutions. And now we have one very important one. Now we have a great solution that we can get all the folds, which is that you vote without the assumption that the Generality presents. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.93.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.94.0	President, I listen to her and she gives me that the situation is still more dramatic than I imagined. You're much more worried. Look, you've been invested more than eight months, and then we haven't moved a thousand miles of the blockade and paralysis situation in Catalonia. A government that doesn't rule doesn't serve the majority of Catalans and Catalans. A government that doesn't govern only serves those who want us to be weak and destitute, and who use Catalonia as the launching weapon to detail rights and freedoms in its recent and retrograde strategy. The situation of exceptionality and repression in Catalonia is alarming. In fact, in a few days there will be a trial that we believe should never be produced and that, moreover, we have already said several times that it suffers from the lack of guarantees. But precisely because of this exceptional situation, we need a strong government, which has a clear full route and which knows how to combine complaint and management – complaint and management. And this balance has been nonexistent all this year. And the Torra-Aragonese government has eight months of fighting with ongoing trajectories and contradictions. In fact, we didn't have to go far enough, but here we had the next example: the supporters of Puigdemont running before the Constitutional Court, and, the others, with a frozen smile and looking at these. That's the picture. And these bars generate inaction, generate governance, and end up turning problems into social conflicts. We've seen it with the health professionals, with the doctors, with the university, with the squadrons. And this week it followed the week of the taxi – the week of the taxi. You've had to shut it down for five days because you're still able to come up with a proposal that's got a little tangled up. Hold it all for five days! It's that they're always late and bad – late and bad. It's the government that doesn't rule, and it's the late government, and it's bad, president. We see a government without a project, which only generates frustration and only generates indifference. And the people went a long way before the same government. If they don't wave, if we don't stand in front of Parliament, if they don't put up with everything, you won't react. How many laws do you approve of this legislature? What actions did the government take to get out of the blockade? Where is the proposal for social assumptions that we are supposed to approve at some point? Because what we're seeing so far is that we're on for years – we're on for years. From socialists, they have nothing to do with what they're telling us. Therefore, I stop wasting time because Catalonia's patience is not infinite. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.96.0	Yeah. Well, respect the subject of the divisions that may exist in the government or in our parliamentary groups, sincerely, at these moments, given the panorama that you have in Madrid [[applause]] Maybe that's not the best way to deal with this, is it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, but they have to vote on some assumptions that you are very much in favour of, and at these times I think there are five Members of the Sea who are not willing to vote for them, and a Member who has also said that she will vote "not until... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, it was just about this theme, about this division theme, huh? I agree. On the subject of assumptions. I insist, they are the most social assumptions ever presented by a government of the Generality. Again we insist: and we carry meetings with you – meetings with you – explaining it to you. He's given meetings. I mean, don't say where these assumptions are, because we're discussing them day by day – day by day, huh? Social assumptions, actually, where we spend almost 80_percent of all expenditure on social expenditure. Because for us, precisely, this is the soul of the assumptions. We do not understand a way of making republic if it is not claiming, precisely, the social laws. Because it will not be the republic that will bring us social laws, it is the struggle for social laws that brings us the republic. And that's why this is our goal. And that's why we'll be here and defend him. And, yeah, we got out of trouble and we got out of trouble. And that's life. And every one of these problems, and every one of these waves, this government has found a solution. This government has found a solution to each of the problems that have arisen. And to the assumption we will also find it, thank you to you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.97.0	The following question is asked by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the initiative why the parliamentary groups that did not participate in the first meeting of the Espai de Diàleg participate in the second]] [[317-00051/12]] You have the word to expose it to Mr. Miquel Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.98.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Many honourable President of the Generality, in reply, in compliment of a parliamentary mandate, you convened, on 16 November, the Espai de Dialeg. In these moments, we have already rejected the call for a subsequent meeting on February 1. And my question is the following: does he or do he intend to take any initiative so that the groups that did not participate in the first meeting of the Espai de Dialeg can do so in their own right?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.100.0	Yes, naturally, all the groups in this room have been invited to attend, and will depend on their will – to want to find a solution, to want to deal with conflicts trying to resolve them, not to get strong in the conflict but to make strong in the solutions – that the groups that did not come on the other occasion come this time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.101.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.102.0	President, if I didn't get it wrong, you said you sent them the call, but I was going a little further. As the other time they also sent them the call and did not come, if you thought to undertake any initiative, some direct conversation with the representatives, with the presidents of these groups, so that the next meeting could take part. We are a parliamentary group that is absolutely compromised by the path of dialogue. We believe that there is no other solution to the problems we have raised as a country and to the problems of our self-government and our financing. And, therefore, we are interested in the success of your initiative. And it does us the effect that if it is limited only to sending a call, then we will find ourselves with the screenplay that we found at the first meeting of the Dialeg Space. And that's why I wanted to encourage him, aware of the difficulty of the issue, but to do something more than formally send the call. I think it is very important for our country to be aware of our collective commitment – of the institutions, but also of the groups – in this political dialogue. We know it will be complex, but in any case, we can't find another way forward. If we want to do this – which we want to do – a fundamental change in our institutional system, in our own self-government, we must start with a proposal from this chamber, with a minimum support of at least two thirds of its members. This is impossible without the competition of the majority, not to mention all groups in the chamber. And in concrete terms – and I don't want to spoil our concern – so that the first group in the chamber didn't participate in this Space for the Dialogue. And we think it would be important for you to make a concrete management, take a political initiative, so as to set the conditions because this participation was possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.103.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.104.0	It is obvious that every person must feel concerned to attend a meeting like this, that I believe that, in addition, it came from a proposal that his group made and that we approved, because, indeed, it seems important to us that we are always open to dialogue. I always say that I go to my travels from the world with two flags: the flag of the dialect and the flag of the civil rights. And I can't get out without these two. Because we wouldn't be us; because we're the ones in the dialog and we're the ones in the civil rights. And, therefore, we'll do everything in our hands because there's this dialog. Now, dialogue dialog is not the solution either. It's a dialect that we have to land, that we have to land on concrete themes. We will come back to propose them, at this meeting, our twenty-one points that we proposed at the meeting that I held with President Sánchez. Grouped in three blocks, as you know: u, the defeat of the State; two, the whole issue of democratic regeneration, and, third, the right to self-determination, which is cabdal. These are the three great points that we want to propose and we want to discuss with all the groups that are doing well, so come to the Palau de la Généralita to discuss in this format, which seemed to us to be a format, let's say, that allowed for a closer discussion, a more intense discussion, a discussion that we could advance, so we accepted their proposal. And, of course, I insist, we once again invite all the groups in the chamber to come up with this will of a built-in dialog, to put down the word "dialeg in concrete themes, so the doors of the Palau de la Généralita will always be open.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.105.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generality about the unit to deal with the repression and the violation of rights]] [[317-00055/12]] ...the formula of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and on behalf of itself has the word Mrs Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.106.0	Good morning, President. Today we want to show him a concern and also a prec. The last few days we have seen how the Spanish government maintained the repressive act that set up the previous execution, and it does so with some facts that seem absolutely difficult to us, such as the arrests of elected officials, activists and photographers, lost, without court order. We also see how they continue to pursue the opening of delegations abroad or lying shamelessly to the international community about the existence of the police's extreme violence against Catalan citizens, October 1, who went to vote freely. It's absolutely intolerable. Sometimes, we see, for example, how an autonomous parliament comes to speak of Catalonia and propose the application of a permanent 155, with claims that they have nothing to do with Catalan reality. There is enough, we are more than enough of this Catalanophobia and persecution of our political movement, of this verbal escalation without measure, without limits, unworthy. They leave our institutions, our media and our political movement behind, and respect democracy. It is an extremely difficult moment, President, at the door of the trial to democracy, when we aspire to see the Spanish State on the bench of the accused. We see that persecution, violation of rights and assertiveness on the part of the State and its powers do not cease. And what's in danger are the same Catalan institutions, public communication means, the Catalan school and the most important rights, because we think that behind all this there is only a willingness to ate up the entire population. It's a phase more of this repressive act devised for the state. Independence is also that, it's ending this model of society dominated by elites and big companies, and all this sector is that which has joined together to pursue our political movement. We demand a change, but a change of truth. What we would like to ask is that both the Government and Parliament conjure up to protect the citizens of Catalonia, the institutions and the same Catalan self-government; shared struggles, presiding, with full complicity and at all times, at every gesture. We know and know that there are no other ways to protect us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.107.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.108.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.109.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.110.0	Thank you, honourable Member, for this attachment for freedom and against repression, which I subscribe from date to date. In fact, it is no longer just Catalonia that we see this democratic regression, it is the world that has grown to what point it has come. And I would like to remember, therefore, the most prestigious rendezvous in the world, V-Dem, where it already lays down and lowers the democratic quality of Spain to levels that had never been seen before. And that's it, from international PEN clubs to world leaders, activists and pacifists, to the most prestigious newspapers... that's how the world is seeing that, actually, what I've often referred to as living the intolerable, is happening. And against that, you're right, it all needs the maximum unity – the maximum unity – of all independence, all sovereignty, which is in favor of freedoms and rights. I am making my own... – speaking of shared struggles, which inevitably remind me of my friend Jordi Cuixart –, and I am making my own the campaign of Cultural, the « I accused. I think that we can build a great consensus on the 'I accuse', because before these judgments it is up to us to do, not to defend ourselves from anything, we must go and accuse the Spanish State of this farce, of this farce which has been more and more unravelling and falling apart, because it is a pure thing behind which there is the persecution of ideas, the persecution of freedom, the persecution of which we are, indeed. And the most indignant things we have come to see, such as, for example, that a Parliament of Extremadura, where the PSOE – on the PSOE –, Citizens and the PP vote in favour of the application of Article 155. We see manifestations on the part of many politicians of the old coalition of Article 155 asking, therefore, that it also be fulfilled, day yes, day also. Well, all this..., against all this – against all this – we have to stick to this unity of the "I accuse" of the "I accuse," that we don't have to defend ourselves from anything, that voting is no crime, that democracy will always win, and that all the Democrats, all of us who believe in the right of Catalonia's self-determination before this trial we have to be more united than ever, because it is a judge against the people of Catalonia, and the answer will have to give the people of Catalonia here in this chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.111.0	President, time is running out. Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generality about official travel to the United States of America]] [[317-00054/12]] The following question is asked by the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, and on behalf of Mr Albert Batet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.112.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. President Torra, our question is about the journey that the Government of the Government of Catalonia did, and you yourself, last week – when we heard all of a success – to the United States, in which it was able to gather with academics, North American companies that invest in Catalonia, which have also announced major investments in Catalonia; also institutional contact with five congressmen in Washington, and this in a context in which we have to denounce the lack of political rights and deures in Catalonia, which there have been with Members of the Parliament of Catalonia, whom we have seen during the last year. And, moreover, in another very important line, apart from this constant denunciation of the violation of rights in Catalonia, the whole area of business investment, the whole new program that has taken place, Catalonia Exponential, on behalf of the Department of Enterprise, resulting in new investments and links in economic areas. It's public and notorious, it's vox populi, there's people, there's political groups that want to be a government of the Government of Catalonia shut down, winged. It's more, I think they'd want a government of the Government of Catalonia enmanillated and exiled. And we find ourselves with a government of the Government of Catalonia and a president who ran from the world to defend the Catalan cause, to defend that the people of Catalonia is a country of opportunity. Even if they didn't want us to exist. They would, as we have seen in the Parliament of Extremadura and we have seen in different pacts of government, that their object is that you do not exist the Government of the Government of Catalonia, that you do not exist the Parliament of Catalonia, that you do not exist democracy in Catalonia. We've seen it in different chords that he's also a fan of political parties in Andalusia, etc. And the visible face of all this has names and surnames, which is Minister Josep Borrell, who could as much as be a minister of the People's Party as of the Socialist Party, which is dedicated to boycotting, which is dedicated to undermining, which is dedicated to constantly threatening its consulates – that is, paid for everyone – and now even lies. He lies around October 1st, around the people who were injured. And despite this boycott, we continue to see a government that defends Catalonia's project to the world, that defends Catalonia's project to the United States, and that's why we're asking for your opinion around last week's trip. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.113.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.114.0	Yes, thank you very much, Congressman. The trip to the United States looked at it from three different points of view. U, the defense of civil rights; two, the defense of the economic promotion of our country, and, thirdly, the political defense of Catalonia, eh? They were the three great goals, and I honestly think we've accomplished them. In the first place, in defense of civil rights, I held the opportunity, invited for the Martin Luther King Institute, to make a presentation to Stanford University about precisely the civil rights and self-determination rights of Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.115.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.116.0	And I can assure you that after this interview, complemented by a visit to Congressman Lewis, a close friend of Martin Luther King in civil strife and a personality of immense prestige in the United States, that he was very warm and supportive of us, and that he commented on us above all that he did not surrender, I think we put forward a manifesto, as he also went out to the interview in Los Angeles Times, that the struggle for civil rights is now absolutely fundamental and central at the time to explain to the world what is happening in Catalonia. But there was certainly also an economic outlook, because we are taking advantage of every way out to foreign countries, so to reinforce the messages that Catalonia..., as we were simply recognizing before yesterday a commissioner from the European Union said that Catalonia is the region of Europe that attracts the most investments for the peas, huh? – the region of Europe that attracts the most investments for peppers – from all over the European Community. So, together with the Financial Times recognizing us as the most attractive region in southern Europe to invest, these are messages that we send whenever we have the opportunity, in any of these trips. And, actually, knowing American Silicon Valley companies that want to..., or are already established in Catalonia, or that want to double and even triple their presence in Catalonia, so it seemed very high to us. And, therefore, the visit together with the presentation made by the Business Advisor on the new visit of the Offices of Action, huh? This Catalonia Exponential, it seemed to us that it was also a point that we solved. And finally the political action for us very high. To have the opportunity to be with five American congressmen of the Democratic Party and the Republican Party, with members of the Commission of Helsinki, to explain to them what is the situation of Catalonia in our home, of violation of civil rights, of violation of human rights and of attack on the right to self-determination of Catalonia, to be able to comment with them and to have this opportunity seemed to us to rise again. I'll go to Europe, America...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.117.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.118.0	...to explain what the situation is... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]] [[Question to the President of the Generality on the priorities of government action since the beginning of 2019]] [[317-00050/12]] The question follows the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the honourable Member Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.119.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, what have been your priorities as President of the Government of the Generalitat since the beginning of 2019?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.120.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.121.0	So the same ones I exposed in the investiture speech. To put people in the centre of our political action; to work for the citizens of Catalonia, to work for their welfare; to work for the progress of this country, and, above all, to work for this country to be freer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.122.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.123.0	Wow, the usual, the process. [[The speaker shows several fulls to the chamber during his intervention.]] Look, I'm going to tell you what the Catalans' priorities have been while you've been on that journey of trial lies: collapses in flu-saturated emergencies, hundreds of people are right now in the hallways of the hospitals in Catalonia. Look, deprogramming of surgical interventions due to lack of anesthesiologists, some of the interventions with months of waiting lists. And, look, while you were on your trial trip you've been called a new strike in the health sector by the end of February. I will also talk to you about another concern of the Catalans: security. Security in Catalonia is a big problem, it has increased by 20_per_cent the thefts, 10_per_cent thefts in private homes with violence. These are some of the news that is of course added to the taxi conflict. We have been in this conflict for many days, which is seriously affecting the mobility of Catalans, with violent altercations, and a government that is clearly not up to the task. I agree that this should be done at national level because, of course, this kind of thing is very big for you. But I'm telling you about the main news, the fundamental problems of Catalans are still there. And you, what you've done, the usual. Can anyone imagine Mr. Torra leading these debates on health, mobility, security, education? No, no, You are seen where always, which is with the process. And I tell you one thing, Mr. Torra, I have bad news for you: the republic does not exist, Mr. Torra, because while you are with your process, with your referendum, with your travels and listening more to Puigdemont than Catalans are accumulating problems. I tell you one thing, Mr. Torra, you are very good – very good – in agitating the CDRs but that has nothing to do with being president. Being president is not your thing, accept it. I think you know, you're looking forward to getting out of the way and putting Mr. Puigdemont in the right place. But that the republic does not exist until Puigdemont, who is dedicated to filing appeals before the Constitutional Court, and knows it until the councillor who asks, please return the competence of the taxis to Madrid, because he does not know what to do with it. [[Give me the applause.]] Accept reality – accept reality. You've got your problems piled up. The reality of Catalans is very great to them because you live in their process. Accept it because it's not that hard... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.124.0	Congresswoman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] It has the word again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.125.0	Well, I see that the new season is inaugurated« Cartellets Ciutadans 2019. [[Greetings.]] We're renovating, thank you. It is fantastic to come here every day to the control session, and to know: "To see what folder will come out today? This one came out today. [[Rialles.]] All right. [[Greetings.]] We'd rather work on teaching posters, and we'd rather... [[remorse of the voice]] We'd rather..., we'd rather solve the problems. [[Greetings.]] We'd rather solve the problems. Why, look, with this gesture you just explained to everyone in Catalonia who you are, huh? - who you are. [[You see the background and the president laugh.]] Yeah, yeah. No, no, you are the ones who are never at the expense of solutions, always at the expense of problems – always at the expense of problems. [[Greetings.]] You're the ones who don't want to talk about the dialog. Hey, aren't you coming to the 1st February meeting? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Come on, you're the one with the fever? No, they won't, will they? Never in favor of dialogue and always at the cost of conflict – always at the cost of conflict. Clearly, you're not interested in doctors, you're not interested in public officials. What interests them are the waves of the meths, the waves of the public servants. [[Greetings.]] This is what interests them, because this is conflict and here it is where you..., so you find their environment, in conflict – in conflict. Listen, look, no... it's impossible that you've prospered in this country if you haven't freed it. It's that it's absolutely impossible – it's that it's impossible. Therefore, we obviously continue to work for people, face the problems that follow and find solutions. We'll find solutions on the way to the doctors who have summoned us, we'll find solutions, because we're the ones looking for solutions and meeting together. And I'd like to do it today too... and thank you, Councilman Calvet, those days you've met up with how many people, huh? But with hundreds, looking for solutions. And that's the most important thing: to have this ability of empathy, of dialog, of finding solutions, of finding agreements. This is what this government is, a government that rules to seek agreements with people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.126.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.127.0	...and working for the people and the citizens. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.128.0	After the control session, let's move to the second point of the order of the day... [[Comparisons of the President of the Government with regard to the Government's action before the deterioration of public services and the working conditions of the employees of the Administration]] [[350-00004/12 and 350-00005/12]] ... that is the appearance of the President of the Generality before the plenary to report on the government action before the deterioration of the public services and the working conditions of the workers, in accordance with Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure and, since the plenary of the Parliament approved the appearance of the President of the Generality on 19 December, we shall now proceed to its substance. As was agreed to by the Board of Spokesmen for the proposed 15 genera, this appearance will be held jointly with the appearance of the President of the Generality before the plenary to report on the government action before the difficult working situation and the demands of the public servants of the Administration to the public sector of the Generality, which appears as the third point of the agenda, and was also approved in the plenary of 19 September. Therefore, we will substantiate the two debates of the two comparisons in the same point. In the first place, therefore, has the word the President of the Generality, Mr Quim Torra. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.129.0	Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. I compare today to talk about the functioning of public services and the working conditions of their workers. Before, however, I want to share with you the confidence in the management that the Department of Territories and Sustainability of the taxi and VTC conflict has done. Councillor Calvet has had the opportunity to express them at what point are the negotiations, pending what the taxi assembly can solve now, and of the willingness to find a satisfactory resolution for everyone and above all – and above all – for the citizen of Catalonia, who are to whom we owe and for whom we work. When we talk about the public service in Catalonia, about the assembly of citizens in our country who have as their vocation and as their profession the performance of a public service, we can't help but see that it's a collection that has been asked for a huge sacrifice at a certain time, a few years ago. A very important sacrifice to achieve that during the crisis that we have suffered is guaranteed the sustainability of public services, with high levels of quality, comparable to the most developed European countries, despite the fact that the economic context was strong against and, as always, with this structural gap of Damocles that is on the head of Catalonia, which is its fiscal deficit. If we have some quality public services, which we have, it is thanks to the good work that the workers and public workers of Catalonia do daily, to whom they should give thanks for their professionalism, their sense of duere and also their sacrifices. We have suffered a strong crisis; all countries have suffered a strong crisis. It's been years of difficulty. But beyond the measures of the content of the expenditure that the Government of the Generality has had to apply..., which the governments of the Generality have had to apply, it is also certain that it has worked to achieve a more transparent, more ethical, more innovative, public administration model adapted to the new reality of public services. These types of containment measures were applied by all governments. Starting in 2010, all governments took action that affected the salaries and working conditions of public workers. For these governments, neither the Catalonians nor the Government of the State, it was not easy. It was not for President Zapatero, who reduced the amount of public workers in 2010 by 5_per_cent, certainly not returned, because it was a structural measure. Nor for President Rajoy, when he eliminated the 2012 extra December pay. Nor obviously for President Mas when the 2013 and 2014 payments will have to be abolished. It is not pleasant for a government to make decisions affecting the rights, performance or remuneration of its workers. The management of the economic crisis is always less grateful than the management of the eras of goodness, as it obliges measures that are neither popular nor welcome, but inevitable to guarantee the sustainability of public services. As I said, from 2010, the difficult economic situation required a reduction in public expenditure in order to reach the level of deficit that the European Union and the Spanish State marked at that time. During the following years, the deficit targets set for the Spanish State and its unfair and unbalanced distribution among administrations made it very difficult to make any alternative to cost containment measures. The Government of the Generality faced the difficult situation with transparency and courage, but it also expressed the determination to reverse these measures as well as improving the economic situation and as far as the regulations and limitations imposed by the State on the finances of the Generality allow. In parallel, the Government also adopted a set of measures to extend the hourly flexibility which, if they did not have a direct presuppositional impact, would allow public workers a better quality of life. These measures therefore constitute a model that ages, from one band, for the correct performance of the public service, but that enables, for the other, the reconciliation of work, personal and family life and promotes the flexibility of the management of time. And now it is quite certain that the economic situation has improved, and strength, since 2011 and, therefore, have recovered working conditions from public workers, beginning to reverse those measures that were most unfavourable to them. And at this point we are, we have already reversed some of these measures, and we will continue to work to do so, because they are legitimate and just claims. But the truth is, we can't go as fast as we'd like. 2012 began to pay the hundred_per_cent of the sum in case of temporary incapacity to the most clearly damaged collection, and gradually expanded to the hundred_per_cent of the sum in case of temporary incapacity in all cases and since the first day, thus returning from the last month of October to the situation prior to 2012. 2014 already provided in the Law of Presumptives for the recovery of the paid fourteen, conditioned on the revenue to the treasury of the Generality of the amounts corresponding to the compensations or recaptations of the tax on the deposits to the entities of credit. As you will recall, the Constitutional Court declared the Catalan tax on deposits unconstitutional, thus making it impossible to pay the extra at that time. But 2015 was finally able to recover the extraordinary pay of public workers. As of 2015, public employees of the Generality Administration and its public sector will be able to collect a hundred_per_cent of the fourteen monthly instalments. That year also left no effect on the 15-per-cent reduction in working hours and began to recover the extraordinary pay for the month of December 2012, which has just been fully recovered in 2018. In 2017, two important agreements were reached at the trade union negotiating table. The first, on plant stabilization and reduction of the temporality index, allowed to fix the additional repositioning fee in thirty_ thousand places. I, the second, the subscription agreement of a 10_percent of the 2013 extra pay during the year 2018. This agreement, to pay the 10_percent of the extra payment of 2013, unfortunately could not be completed by impossibility of the regulations contained in the Law of Presumptions of the State, concretely in the forty-one additional provision of this law, which required the return of the rights to the compliment of the deficit object and the rule of expenditure. All this..., as you know and I will explain further ahead, very recently we came to an agreement with the motion of the wave called for last 12 December to recover the payments 2013 and 2014, and the negotiation of measures of reconciliation of work and personal life; agreement ratified by the General Bureau of Public Employees Negotiation and which will mean that this first quarter is already able to recover the 10_per_cent of the 2013 pay, which was not able to recover the year before. Therefore, the intention of the Administration to advance in the recovery of the working conditions of employees and public employees and not only to advance, but to improve them, is firm and is reflected in the recent agreements adopted. Only in the few months that we carry from this legislature have we already reached a number of agreements with trade union organizations. It is those agreements that, because they are agreements, the opposition is systematically obliterated. Two, in relation to the selection of staff involved: the agreement for the perception of the 100_percent of wages in the event of temporary incapacity, is what the cause is, and what I have already talked about: the wage increase for 2018, fulfilling the maximum increase of the 1.95_percent of the wage mass that enabled the current regulations. And now very few days ago, the 8th generation, has closed the salary increase agreement for 2019, as well as the maximum increase, 2.75_percent of the wage mass that allows the current legislation; I agree that it is translated into the decree that yesterday approved the government and that in the next few days it will enter the Parliament to be validated. I think it's worth noting at this point the effort that the government has made to complete these agreements, because, as you know, we still find ourselves in a situation of presuppositional prorogation. We are aware that we remain right to return and work on this line. Since late last we have been negotiating with the unions the return of the 2013 and 2014 foreign payments, because the return of these foreign payments has always been on the government's agenda. At the end of October he presented to the negotiating table a first proposal of calendars to advance in the recovery of conditions, which was rejected by the unions. Due to this lack of agreement there had been a wave of public workers and workers on 12 December, but in the course of the mediation the Government reached an agreement with the majority unions on the return calendar of the two external payments 2013 and 2014. This return represents an expenditure of €1,100_million, with an important impact on the Generality's assumption, which forces us to deal with it gradually. As you know, in concrete terms, and for 2013, the forecast is the return of 40_per_cent during 2019 and 60_per_cent remaining during 2020. For what it does to the 2014 pay, the compromise is that, if it is not possible to return the totality by 2021, it will charge a 55_per_cent of the import that year and the other 45_per_cent by 2022. This was a laborious agreement, a laborious one, in which both the government and the unions worked out hours and hours, and which allowed the vacancy to be called off and demonstrated..., and I would like to thank the great interest and involvement of all the negotiating parties so as to reach an agreement that was positive for the public workers and that was feasible. Because he wouldn't have heard of coming to terms that we weren't on completion terms. In the same line last Tuesday the negotiating table was assembled and it was agreed to create a working group for such a follow-up of the one quarter of the agreement signed on 11 December, which provides for the negotiation of social, labor and flexibility measures or reconciliation of work and family life, among others. We follow, therefore, and we will follow, we will never get out of this lane, with the vocation of complimenting accords and permanent negotiation with the representatives of the workers. Therefore, I think it is fair to point out that we are in the process of making the situation of civil service to the levels expected of the crisis. Beyond the work that is done by the different competent departments, this is a compromise of the whole government. Another of the challenges that the government has to face in the framework of public service is that of its enveloping. The fact that we couldn't make offers of public employment means that there hasn't been a new entry of young people, of people with new profiles. By the end of 2014, the laws of state assumptions restricted the possibility of incorporating new people, allowing only one_of_each_downloads to be covered, and only in those collections that the same state legislation marked us as priorities. As well as the inability to offer nine seats, special processes of exclusive internal promotion have been launched since 2014 to promote the promotion of the category of staff. In 2015, given that state legislation allowed for a more flexible repositioning, the Government was able to approve a public employment offer for the maximum allowable period. This offer of public occupation was focused on professional profiles of the social sphere – greeting, education and social assistance –, fighting tax fraud and preventing and extinguishing fires – firefighters. Also in 2016 and 2017 public employment offers have been made and calls have been made, for example, for places for people with intellectual disabilities. It is also worth highlighting the thirty-thousand approved places, now one month ago, that will allow us to stabilize and consolidate seedlings and drastically reduce, therefore, the temporality indexes to which we were led by the state's basic regulations. It has been explained, on the part of the different advisors, that a very large part of these thirty-thousand places will be allocated to teaching staff, teachers and teachers, and to health personnel; in concrete terms 15,658 teaching staff and 9,307 health staff. The rest, the five-thousand and five-thousand workers, are dedicated to administrative work and to the workforce. All these calls must promote the necessary rejuvenation of the seedlings, especially the acquisition of new talent, with the incorporation of the best professionals that there is at every moment in the labor market. Arriving at this point, I would like to take advantage of the work and effort of the Counsellor Puignero and his team of Digital Policies and Public Administration in negotiating these agreements, as well as the rest of the advisers involved – of Education, of Salut, Vice President – to improve the model of public service and the working conditions of public servants. And now I'd talk about some of these more particular collections, and first place, about the moves and the bombers. With regard to the demands of the movements and of the bombers, I must say that when we recovered the Generality, after Article 155, we found open labor negotiations and that they had remained stuck with these two collections of public servers. Obviously, and immediately, we've taken over the negotiating thread, put to rest for months. After the meetings that have taken place all this time, the situation today, today, is the following. The Department of Interior has submitted and is negotiating with the trade union representatives of the Bomber Cos a proposal on the working conditions of the functional firefighters. It is a proposal that starts from the recognition of the heavy faults of the body, and has a main objective, that is to normalize the situation of the Bomber Cos by the year 2022, by means of the input of a thousand us effective, the implementation of other better organizational and labor characteristics, and also of the renovation of the locker room, the equipment, the mobile park and the infrastructure. They already know that between 2010 and 2016 there was no call for inputs to the Cos de Bombers; neither did the year 2017. So, we're starting from a really difficult situation, and this situation we want to change, huh? This government has been the one who, in the first place, has changed the return so that it can now cover all that deficit that has not been possible during all these years, unfortunately, to cover. That's why the government's commitment is to make the next four years of new calls for access to the Bombers Cos, 250 seats a year, to reach the thousand that announced them. And we also propose to cover various categories of the cos mitjandante internal promotion: 216 corporal places, 98 sergeant places, 100 officer places, 25 subsinspectors and 7 inspector places. And to show the decree that the same Buch advisor will present them tomorrow for their validation. The proposal also envisages aspects such as the better pay for overtime, the professional career or the reactivation of the second activity commission, among others. This set of measures and some more that I am not going to detail now will allow us to implement the Project Bombers 2025, of the Directorate General of Prevention, Fire and Rescue, which I remember, counselor, that have already presented us with the motion of the visit that we were able to make to the Bombers Cos a few months ago. How do you know, huh? I insist, the week after Councilman Buch comes will appear to give all the details of the situation of this negotiation with the bombers. In relation to the Squadron Cosos, these months have been held various negotiations, with the intention also to reach an agreement that allows to solve the deficiencies created during the years of presuppositional content, because we recognize them, there have been, these deficiencies; deficiencies created precisely because of this crisis situation. The trade union representatives presented a proposal with fifteen demands on their working conditions. The Interior Department took over the proposal as a working document in the negotiation. Today, twelve of these fifteen points have been resolved or are practically in resolution lives. Now, however, the cos unions of the squadrons have added to these fifteen points one more requirement: the full remunerative equipping of the moves with the bombers. The Department of the Interior and, therefore, the Government have made the will of obvious resolution and notoriety both in the area of the police and with the bombers. And I also take advantage to thank you, Counselor Buch, and all your team, so, your willingness to find solutions, which is what surrounds us as the government. On the teaching and educational staff, but also on the administration staff and educational services and professionals, it is also one of the collections that suffered most from the presuppositional reduction of years of crisis. In this sense I also want to make a recognizance of the work of the teachers during all these years, because the difficulties inherent in their work have had to be added to the difficulties of working with migrated resources. The government has also begun to reverse this good part of this situation. Only by way of example, can we say that the system has more than seven thousand teachers than the year 2016– seven thousand more teachers than the year 2016–, with a current staff of 71,865 teachers and teachers; or that there have been 426 more teachers in the last three courses to improve inclusive education; or that there have been 809 teachers, in the last three courses, in the centres of high complexity. Since the past course, one hour of teaching has been reduced to primary and secondary school for the teacher and replacement coverage has been improved: more than seven days are covered from the first day and the course beginnings are covered from the 1st of September. We are also greatly pleased to say that we have called more than five thousand places of opposition for fellow teachers and that a total of 15,658 until 2023 will be called. Commitments already adopted for this government. The Education for Students Decree in the framework of an inclusive education system, which replaced the previous rule of the year 1997, could not be developed in its entirety due to a lack of assumptions. It provided for a provision of some 142_million euros for four years that began to apply in 2017, a date approved by the legislation. Therefore, among others, there are still shortcomings in what it does to the needy of teaching staff, educational support staff, teacher training or equipment. Yes, there is, and we recognize them, and we look at them, and we work, and we negotiate them, because they are the least possible, between the enormous presuppositional difficulties and the structural fiscal deficit that our country suffers. There is more need than to deal with: equip the territory with nine priority school buildings, remove the shortage of subordinate staff and administrative assistants in the educational centres or increase the presuppositional departure of staff replacements to the centres, to put only three examples. This government has the objective of improving the excellence of our educational centres, and this happens, to a good extent, to meet the proposals that come from the unions and the educational community, and in them and with them we are in permanent contact. The student is at the center of education, and I can understand that a good education system is the best reversal of the future that we can do like society. Therefore, also thanks, Counsellor Bargalló and your team, for all the effort you are making to attend to this process of improvement. And finally I would also like to discuss the issue of how we have managed the demands and waves of the public and concerted health sector. It may be said that before the vacancy call the Government already set aside some initiatives aimed at improving the service and working conditions of a sector that also covered the consequences of the presuppositional containment of the crisis, as well as all. Among these initials, there is the inn at the end of the National Primary Care and Community Health Strategy, as a solution to the long term of the challenges that the primary care is still facing in the coming years. It is today in the design and preparation phase of implementation in territories as demonstration. Since the previous legislature, the budgetary situation has been reversed and the allocation of resources in areas with major socio-economic deprivation has been strengthened. In this same vein, November was opposed to more than 1,300 family meths and more than two-cents of primary pediatrics. Besides, we've opened our primary care centers. Resources earmarked for primary care are now 90 per cent of those allocated before the crisis; xifra relevant. Among these actions previous to the protests of the late, was also activated the Forum of Professional Dialogue, with all agents of the field of salvation of our country, as well as various departments of the Government; a space to think, to define strategies, to also identify gaps and needs and, above all, to propose better actions, of which we are very satisfied. As you know, on 29 November the Catalan Institute of Health, after some very hard negotiations, came to an agreement with Metges de Catalunya that allowed us to put an end to the vacancy that had been called. Yes, a new conflict, but a conflict that we knew how to resolve by talking, negotiating, many times in a very discreet way; but to reach an agreement that would negotiate, talk and do it discreetly. Agreed that it focused on four areas: the empowerment of primary care directions, the approach to work overload, the improvement of working conditions and the autonomy of teams. For what it does to overload, the ICS will provide the professional resource that allows to assign to each metge a quota of suitable patients and thus adjust the time of attendance to the city. Increasing the staff of professionals will allow to adapt the work schedules to a reference time of twelve minutes for visits made to the consultation. On the increase in staffing, one of the main measures is the stable contracting of current family medicine residents, to make it effective at the time of the end of the residency of this year 2019. They have proposed and are formalizing inter-internship contracts for the former residents who were eventually contracted, making replacements in the teams and can thus increase the seedlings. Measures have also been worked out to promote the extension of retirement, with adapted working conditions which are expected to be approved by the coming month. This adaptation will allow to reduce to 70_per_cent the assigned population and free the professional time to devote to mentoring, advice or support and thus put in value the accumulated expertise and experience of the professionals, for the benefit of the population and the rest of the professional team. For another band, it will increase the boss for substitutions, up to 22_million euros. This year, for the first time, the primary care teams have rejected for the attention and reinforcement of the period of the integral emergency plan of Catalonia, as the councillor said before, a game of more than 3_million euros. In all the teams where it is necessary to increase professional, they propose contracts of interinternship to the doctors and the rest of the professionals – of infirmary, of administration... –, with the objective of stabilising the seedlings. In addition, during the year 2019, opposition competitions will be held for different professional categories, such as nursing staff and technicians in auxiliary nursing care and administration, among others. These are just a few examples of better remunerations agreed upon with trade union organisations, in the framework of negotiations with the Health Department. All these actions, as you know, involve an economic injection of EUR 100_million, already committed to the Government, which are additional to EUR 195_million of salary increases that imply to the ICS the application of the paid agreements; an injection that has affected especially in the primary, but also in all professionals of the Catalan Institute of Health. For another band, we are also addressing the demands of the concerted sector. Yes, as you know, on November 21, prior to the call for a vacancy, the business associations and the unions signed the convenient second job of health care agreed to the Sanitari Integral System of Public Use of Catalonia, the Siscat, which affects fifty_ thousand professionals, for the period 2017-2020. The agreement was possible thanks to the trade union and employers' commitment, with the support of the Department of Health and the CatHealth, with the aim of improving working conditions. The second convenient collection of work of concerted centres involves a better number of conditions of work of the health professionals of hospital centres, primary care centres, socio-sanitary centres and mental health. In short, very briefly, it implies: first, a wage increase of up to 9.87_per_cent accumulated between 2017 and 2020; second, the gradual recovery of the 2008 day and, earning a day of propitious assumptions; third, that all groups and returns have the same nominal day as they had in the convenient set of the Hospital Service of Public Use; fourth, the complement of the one hundred_per_cent of the temporary incapacity from the first day, as well as the public function; fifth, it also implies the salary equipping between the infirm meths of hospital care and primary care, and, lastly, agreements for the better of the conditions in the matter of reconciliation of work and family life. The signature of this convenient, valid until 2020, allows, therefore, the adaptation to our models of care to people and to the new forms of organization of the work in the teams and centers of the Siscat. On the other hand, in order to improve the employability of professionals in the concerted sector, more than nine hundred jobs have been called. At present, we have a new repte, which we have seen since the first moment that the demands of the 18th and 22nd of February take shape. The concerted sector asks us to adapt the agreements that were signed with the primary of the ICS to the primary of the concerted. To make this possible, and from the reality that our health model makes, CatSalut's director sent a letter to the managers of primary care providers agreed to jointly evaluate teams, detect needs and propose better solutions. We're already there, to avoid the vagueness of the concert. We've already put ourselves to work. He tried to adapt, according to the reality of the center, the best of the ICS primary. In addition, a quadrupling of overloads has been carried out and a diagnostic of each company's situation will be carried out in order to take the detailed measures of how to incorporate the best of them. All these are some of the many measures and decisions that have taken place before, during and after waves in the health sector. And I also take advantage here, therefore, of the involvement and the work done for the vice president, done for the councillor Vergés and for your teams during all this time, so that we can find solutions to these requests that have been made and in the way that you have resolved and how you have done it. Therefore, in my view, and as you can see, the Government has done and does everything in its power to reverse an enormously complicated situation, a very complex inherited situation that has gone beyond, not without difficulties, thanks to the effort and compromise of the public servants of this country. But the analysis of this situation would not be complete or much less accurate without indicating that all these difficulties have a background and practically structural aggravation. And, yes, it's the tax deficit. We are not talking about a small detail, we are talking about between 10,000 and 16,000 million euros each year, according to whether the calculations make them one or the other; a very difficult funding deficit that prevents Catalans and Catalans from having more public services, and that also prevents this Government, any government in Catalonia in these conditions, and the color that follows, from making a policy at the height of the capacity of this country and the resources generated by this country. Because the fiscal deficit, the economic asphyxiation, the investment deficit, ended up turning into a social deficit, a deficit that directly attempts against the welfare of people, the prosperity of the country, and who pays for the consequences, of this historical and constant deficit, a deficit that does not have any motor territories of the world, they are, yes, the people, the citizens in their day to day. It is impossible to make social policy and a speech of progress and social justice without denouncing at the same time or putting the fiscal and, therefore, social deficit at risk. It's impossible. And this is also one of the Republican struggles, and we would like it to be one of the struggles shared with the 7_million_i_mig service of Catalans and Catalans. Just imagine 'hovostès, reduce a point the fiscal deficit that it supposes. Obviously, the premise presented by this government is also an important tool for resolving and improving public services in all these areas that we have commented on today, and in many others that I have not had time to comment on. In the current situation, the assumption is a very important tool, certainly, but it only acts as a piece, while we do not have the full financial capacity that is deserved by the people of this country, the fiscal sovereignty that I left behind the injustice and suffocating finance deficit, a sovereignty that is already possible with the republic independent of Catalonia. That is why we will continue to advance to achieve this political objective, because people voted for it and because there is an absolute majority in this Parliament for it. With this conclusion I conclude, therefore, this intervention, reiterating my gratitude and recognition to the public workers, for their dedication, effort and sacrifice during all this time of great presuppositional content, dedication and effort that have allowed the citizenry to continue enjoying the good public services we have at our disposal. Actually, we have some great professionals in this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.130.0	The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak for a maximum of fifteen minutes each, according to the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen. It has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the honourable Member Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.131.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra..., Mr. Torra has come today, he has been dignified to appear, to talk about public service, not because he has requested it, but because two opposition groups have demanded it. We've seen how fast Mr. Torra had when he had to go out and defend Otegi. Well, you're here today – thank you, Mr. Torra – because we have forced you to do so. [[The speaker shows several fulls to the chamber during his intervention.]] Look, I'm going to make you a map of the public service in Catalonia. The truth is that I perceive from his speech quite conformism, but the situation of the public service in Catalonia is dramatic. I'll make you a small map and a short map. We have precarious rates that are far above other autonomous communities and that, moreover, have risen, that is, they have worsened, in recent years, and in recent months, that we will now see. We have a structural under-staffing, especially in some groups. Why? Because they have been reiterating unfulfilled promises. We also have some calls that you have promised, I don't know if three or four times, over the last few years. The third: lack of resources. There are many professionals who are no longer complaining because they are not recovering the pay, or complaining because they have not recovered labour rights, because they do not have the material means to provide their public service, which are only asking them to give them the tools necessary to provide this public service. Of course – of course – cuts: cuts in pay, cuts in rights and cuts in social policies. Catalonia has been the autonomous community of all Spain where social spending has been cut the most since 2009. Here Mr Torra says that it is Madrid's fault and the fiscal deficit, well, in Catalonia it is where the most has been cut in social spending since 2009. And that's something objective – that's something objective – which, moreover, is that it's easily verifiable. Finally, we also have a public function under constant ideological pressure, which must provide its services in spaces that look more like the offices of the Republican Left of Catalonia or Mr Puigdemont than neutral administrations open to all citizens. [[Greetings.]] And that is also related to precariousness. Are you surprised that the men of the Government have increased the job insecurity of civil servants? No, no, Why? Because that's how they can press them without complaining, because that's how they keep quieter. The precariousness, in the background, what takes away from you is freedom, when it comes to being able to complain to you before your bosses, when it comes to being able to ask for more resources. And that is something that has been increasing in the Government of the Generalitat. But it is also that this increase in precariousness is curious – it is curious. We have a level that is unsustainable, we have – data from the same Generalitat, eh? , if we rely on the data of the Generalitat – a percentage of interims of 32_per_cent and a percentage of temporality of 36,6_per_cent. But sometimes the data is very cold and you don't know if that's much or it's little if you don't put it in context. Well, there are other autonomous communities with far fewer points of temporality and precariousness than the community of Catalonia. But it is also curious, because since Mr Puigdemont arrived at the Government of the Generalitat, in December 2015, as temporaryity in the civil service has increased by 10 points. But it is even more curious: since Mr Torra is president, since the end of that evil 155 that is supposed to be the culprit of all the problems, it turns out that the temporality and precariousness in the public service in Catalonia has increased, since the 155 was removed. I mean, you, every time you have more time, you do more and more damage to the public service in Catalonia, to Catalan society, of course. And we talked about pay. The demands of pay are a demand for which we have been working in this Parliament for years, but most of all the trade unions and workers' representatives have been working. But the worst of all is that in Catalonia it is where the salaries of public workers were cut the most. So much so that they say that it is Madrid's fault, that it is the fault of others, where more has always been cut, always, it is here. It is that the largest scissors always have you, of all the autonomous communities. The payments, where they have more been cut and where they will probably be returned later is in Catalonia – it is in Catalonia. Do we always have to have these headlines? Do you always have to be on the line of labor rights, but then, as we will see, in the head of making chiringuitos? Why do Catalans have to endure this? And besides the issue of pay I..., if you'll allow me, I think it was the motive of one of the greatest ridiculous, horrible ridiculouss, that the Government of the Generalitat has starred. Because we have seen even the president, but well, the president of these things speaks little, more to the councillor and the vice president, saying that it was impossible to pay back. On 4 December, Mr Puigneró said: "We want to pay, but don't let us. The 4th of December. Almost giving pity: "No, it's that I want to, but they don't leave me. Well, days later it turns out you've already found the magic solution to pay back, after making an announcement or a promise that it was a real insult to wait eight more years to recover the payback, with a proposal, I insist, that it was absolutely embarrassing. I mean, either you were lying before, that's that you could pay, but you didn't want, or you're lying now, that's that you're not going to pay. Or they lie twice, that they will not pay, because they will not keep that promise, nor will they stop paying, precisely, for the Government of Spain, which is what I fear is going to happen. [[Greetings.]] Incredible ridiculous, horrific. A few days later, an announcement. " Where did they get the money? Oh, but if they couldn't before, but if it was supposed to be the government of Spain... well, an announcement, why? Because we're facing elections, aren't we? , because the elections are near and then you have to make promises of these that are not being fulfilled. Let's talk about unfulfilled promises: under-staffing of places in Catalonia. You've been making promises of squares for so many years. Look, I've looked at the website of the Generalitat of Catalonia and there are places announced up to three and four times, by statements from members of the government. The year 2015..., there are still some hangings on their website, which are announced, but are not even called. How many people have looked at those squares! How many people will have looked on that website, got into it, been studying, been preparing, will, at best, be acting people who want to have a place in property, security, work peace, and find their promises unfulfilled over and over again! In fact, you have acknowledged that you have had many places announced repeatedly for many years and that you do not comply, because this is what we put forward in an amendment, a motion, and you had until you recognized that that was true. So can they stop making electoral promises that are not going to be fulfilled? Because they frustrate many people, people start preparing and then you don't summon the squares of many of the things you announce. Another problem, a serious problem, Mr Torra: the average age of officials, especially in certain sectors. The unions have been warning for many years that it is not just a matter of calling for a place, that you don't even do it, but that you have to make a contingency plan, looking at exactly what the retirement periods are. There are sectors that are going to have peaks of retirement in the coming years very, very, very high, and that are going to endanger the normal development of the service. In the health sector, for example, the representative of the College of Physicians here in Parliament, the last legislature, therefore, announced that..., I think there were ten_ thousand health professionals, will retire in the next decade. That was a couple of years ago, so we're already on the clock. Planning is required, and this must be timed and prioritized in the public service and not in what they have. And, by the way, Mr Torra, I believe that the fundamental effort has not been made by Mr Puigneró, nor by the Government of the Generalitat; if public services have been maintained during this crisis and during these savage cuts, it has been because of the vocation and responsibility of many professionals, who have filled the irresponsibility of the Government of the Generalitat. But do you know what's going on? They can't take it anymore. Health professionals have endured horrible years, and they can't take it anymore. And again I insist, Mr Torra, that you have called another strike, because you only took the commitment of the doctors of the ICS but forgot about many other professionals in the health sector. You have a strike called for February that can affect ten thousand professionals and more than fifty hospitals. I wonder: what has Mr. Torra led in all these months about this? Do you imagine leading the negotiations, trying to avoid strikes, looking at the retirement planning of professionals in a few years' time? No, you can't imagine that, can you? You've dealt with yours. But this, every day that happens, is a problem that accumulates. And you can't say thank you now because you say that in a few years' time you may be paying them back. It is not to thank, Mr Torra, it is not to recognize any effort. The only one that has to be recognized is the sector, the sectors that have been facing the face. In the health sector, precariousness is very high; 45_percent of ICS professionals do not have a fixed contract. And, above all, do you know who it affects, Counselor? To women and young people, precariousness in the health sector. I'm not saying that they're easy to solve, they're complicated issues, but what it has to do with a government is that it has this as a priority. But what are your priorities? Create chiringuitos. Can I give you an example of a chiringuito? Look, last week we had a very peculiar visit, huh? , because he came here to appear, while Mr Aragonès did not come to face for ATLL, including the Counsellor of Territori, who left you hanging - hung - to Members who did not come to give explanations for the ATLL, who were called for that commission, something that can cost us hundreds of millions of euros, which indeed came I think we can call it « the biggest plug in the process, which is a gentleman who has put you to finger in a little chiringuito that is called, if I remember well, Commissioner for the Evaluation of the Effects of 155, that you know how much that gentleman pays on his finger? One hundred_twelve_ thousand_euros per year – 112,000_euros per year. Think of the professionals, the officials, what you have had to work, what you have had to study. But for that there has been no budgetary restriction, for that they did not need Madrid's permission; Madrid has left them, has not put any problems, nor budget. And I'm telling you about the little chiringuito that came in last week. We have a list here that... because we have limited time, but we can do a process plug-in review here. You treat the plugs very well, but that very well – 112,000_euros, which is also a gentleman who you look at the resume and you say « go live in the process, who has not stuck a stick to the water in the private sector in his life, probably, and 112,000_euros. But then the councillor is gnawing a 0.25 to the representatives of the public workers, because for the plugs there is no limitation of any kind. Well, Catalonia is the autonomous community – let all honourable Members know – with more chiringuitos. This is said by the official nationwide ranking of parallel entities of the public administration. We are the autonomous community that has the highest offices, where they charge the most. But we are the autonomous community that has cut its officials the most. The first decision of the Government of the Generalitat, the first week, you know what it was? Put the 20_million_of_euro plus on TV3. That was the first, of the first decisions made by the Government of the Generalitat. And while we have groups in very precarious conditions, for example, the Mossos d'Esquadra. This is not just about pay, or places, but also about working conditions. Many are without adequate uniforms, unable to patrol because there are not enough personnel, doubling services, not paying overtime when they are charged; the police stations, which many are in absolutely unfortunate conditions. And what does the Government of the Generalitat do? Above it announces purges against the mossos when they do their work against the violent CDRs. Why? Because the gentlemen of the trial want the officials at the service of the trial, they even give them orders contradictory to judicial decisions. On the last day, on December 21, the mossos only asked, fix, please give them the written orders, of what they had to do, in case they were later in trouble. Well, I insist, that commissioner of 155, with that gentleman so well paid, huh? – that, for that, the biggest plug in the process, you have no problem –... because it turns out that the government has not made a commission on public service, of the study of the impact of cuts on public service; for that, no. Or a commission on 3_per_cent, we could see, right? , the impact in Catalonia of 3_per_cent, to see how much money have taken some that could be in public services. Or a commission for the impact of the four-thousand companies that have left. No, no, you don't talk about that. But one of the issues I would like to comment on is that you are ideologically pressing the officials. Because there are officials who have to go every day to work, I insist, to places that look like the headquarters of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. And what do you tell these officials? – that perhaps they vote for Citizens, imagine, the first party in Catalonia –, what do they tell these officials that they have to work like this every day? Hold on to it? Or do you not consider that there are civil servants or public servants who are citizens? Maybe that's what happens to you, isn't it? , that you believe that all public workers are independenceists. Or the government delegation, for example, with megaphony every day, huh? , like the one who calls to prayer. At twelve o'clock in the morning, everyone has to come down and put themselves at the door to the political prisoners. And who is the handsome one who sits in his place and sees all his companions who do not want to go to that independence act? What do we do with these officials? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.132.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.133.0	What do you tell those officials? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Hold on to it? Because the political significance is obvious. In short...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.134.0	Madame Arrimadas, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.135.0	... and to end – yes, I finish right away, Mr President – Catalonia is on the line of labour rights of public workers and we are at the head of creating chiringuitos, because you treat much better...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.136.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.137.0	...the plugs...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.138.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.139.0	...that the officials of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.140.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is now the return of Mr Pol Gibert. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.141.0	Thank you, President. President Torra, advisors and advisers, deputies and deputies, and colleagues who today followed us from the rostrum, attentively, in this appearance, good morning to everyone. Today we were able to listen to President Torra talk about the situation of public services in Catalonia. There's been an appearance that we could say differently, late, but we finally got to listen to it. There have been quite a few drawings of demonstrations and waves, thousands of people on the street, two petitions for appearance and two months to come true, but the day has come. I have to tell you, President, that the appearance had two points: one was a public function and the other, you serve public. And you've talked a lot about public service, which is very good and very important, but you've forgotten on the second side. As you well know, our group asked for the President's appearance when this Parliament was on the same day and day as different collections of public servants at our doors. And we did it when that week of late heat we didn't listen to a word from our president on that issue. He's got it. He's gone on this subject. It was important to force him to compare himself in front of Parliament to his own accounts, in accounts of his own volition. You, President, have the right to go old for the welfare of Catalans and Catalans and for the public servers that make it work day after day. And last month he lost a great opportunity to lead and prove it. In fact, he hasn't lost a couple of opportunities. Today you had a second occasion to compromise both the public services and the social policies of this Parliament, which has voted many times to reverse the famous retail services as well as working conditions. It wasn't the case, but I'd say he didn't catch us again. It is well known that the government bench bothers them to talk about details, about the President's scissors, as if it were nothing but years ago with them. I'm having a hard time. But it also bothers millions of citizens that every day they suffer from these flaps and talk a lot less about them; they are found every day when they have to make a magnetic resonance, when they have to pay university fees or when they want to take their child to school in Bressol. Because Catalonia has been the autonomous community that has suffered the most from the retail... but it is the one that is tricking the most to recover them, twice harmed. As has been said, we just need to look at the data to know that we are the community that has spread the most in social spending. If we get down to concrete services, if we land the topic, we'll see how we have the waiting list in Spain's biggest dependency. We have the pride of having one_of_each_three dependents in the waiting list of the entire State. From 2013 to 2017, the benefits to non-professional caregivers have been reduced, giving up more than 25,000 benefits of these characteristics, a measure which in the first place harms the people who deserve attention but also their families and the economy, leaving up to 14 thousand work places. In this Parliament we have seen many times and have listened to the fact that better social policy is a place of work. Following this maxim, it costs us a lot to hear how a job place that provides a social service is not an absolute priority for this government. For what it does to guaranteed citizenship income, after a year, we can do the balance of its application. And frankly, President, the execution of guaranteed income has been an absolute disaster. They can't generate expectations like this announced with drums and silverware and then find us with such a poor management. It's not a waste for all the people who can benefit. If we focus on childhood policies, the data tells us that it is not a priority for your government. The xifra of child poverty in Catalonia has increased more than four points in one year, being 28.5_per_cent. Here we listen many times to the fact that we want to be Southern Denmark. So, mirin, in childhood policies are better Romania or southern Bulgaria. And we're talking about kids who don't have any proper food or stuff; we're not talking about anything. It is clear that the data of poor children have been made worse by the economic crisis, it is undeniable, but they have also been accompanied by a lack of measures to prevent their growth. A good deployment of guaranteed income could also help to lower these high figures, but we will hardly succeed if we dedicate 0.8_per_cent of GDP to it, while the middle of the European countries allocate a 2.4. If we go into what makes public sanitation, we will see a list of waits that has continued to increase last year, already to have a surgery, for a medical test or for a visit to the specialist. The maximum time required for the headmaster's appointment is forty-four hours, according to the Department of Health. I recommend that one of the days you don't go to Waterloo, Geneva or Brussels pass through the Can Rull CAP of Sabadell, and ask the patients who say they are waiting for a visit, who are sure there. He will surely lie down more at forty-four days, his waiting, than at forty-four hours. Perhaps he will realize that the teachers have to double visits, making an extra effort, while the citizens have to wait weeks to be visited. This is the reality of Catalonia today, President. And I'll give you a few more examples. Lleida has been closed since 2011, 1,285 liters; a TAC for Reus accounts for almost three hundred days of waiting; a colonoscopy for the Tauli Hospital is 139 days of waiting, and in Catalonia we have 170,000 people waiting for surgery. And there's another data that summarizes it quickly. The year 2010 was almost €1,300 per person per year; the year 2017 was for €1,186 per person. More importantly, the lack of investment in health centres and the non-renewal of technological equipment has led to 10_percent of the equipment being obsolete. And that percentage is still growing back in the year. But, on the other hand, while public sanitation was laminated for retail, private sanitation took over the store. And I'll be left with an example that's demolishing. In seven years the public expenditure in salutation has dropped 881_million euros. But do you know how much you put up in private toilets? In 889_million euros. I suppose they're observing the coincidence in the ciphers. And, as I said, all these details have fallen on the professional schematics. In concrete terms, health professionals have been one of the most affected by retailing: reduction of under 25_per_cent, reduction of seedlings, overload of work, among many others. A limited situation, and from here the waves of white bats that came in the month of disembarkation. If it is true, as you have said, that better results have been achieved from the proposals and protests, we still have the matching of the staff of the concert and the public, as well as the situation of the nursing staff. In short, President, I call a plan of human resources to reverse the detail, and predict that in two years retirement is 25_percent of the professionals. We need to increase the number of health workers to attend to the people of Catalonia without extreme work and with quality. If you share this diagnosis, and that's it, think about it and say what you want to do to get the situation back on track. If we're talking about education, then it's not that we're worse than 2010, but that every school year we've started is worse than last year. The 2018-2019 course started with 1,015 barracks in 422 schools, and 93 of them are entirely made up of barracks. We continue to have underfunded public education, across the middle of the country around us, and across the 6_per_cent that sets the LEC. With the current level of investment, it is impossible to face the challenges we have in the field of education. Basically, we have an increment of the student who does not translate into a sufficient increment of teaching, and this is where the quality of education is also negatively transferred. Moreover, the Government is still not ensuring inclusive school: more teachers and more resources are needed if we are to adequately attend to the student's special educational needs. Of course, there is still no euro at the zero educational stage three years, much like the time of Convergence; there are things that seem like they are not changing. The Government must assume its responsibility, which derives from its exclusive competence in this area. If we take a look at what he's doing to the FP, we see how he's still holding big reps on the table. You need to put the wire in the needle to guarantee the gratuity, increase the public offer and reduce the drop-out rate. In short, we must respond to the great educational reptes of the country: equal opportunities, the struggle against segregation, and re-position education as a social elevator. Meanwhile, it's the masters and the masters who support the detail. According to a report from the Jaume Bofill Foundation, a 47_percent reduction in the expenditure of the Department of Education was due to the faculty's work commissions – a 47_per_cent. President, you see this very hemiscles that this government's support of the educational community is total, that... our masters and our masters feel that they have the government at their side. President, it's time to translate tweets and good intentions into concrete policies. Public services don't come from good words, they come from resources that have been spread out over the years, and you've got your hand starting to recover these public services. I didn't want to fail to mention the security issues, and I wanted to remind you of a sentence that you said. He says: "If we succeed in being a country that is safe, they are safe in quality of life. So I have to tell you, by luck, the country enjoys good quality of life, all the faults we have in safety. It is not that we have held the bombers at the gates of this Parliament, a thing that is playing life to save us from others and that the government has not been able to equip it with the minimum tools to do its job – and when I say "minimal" I don't talk about innovation, I talk about uniforms, I talk about helmets, I talk about the minimum protection required by a firefighter. If we speak of Mossos, our group no longer knows how to fill the situation they suffer: we have denounced it by active and passive, and the same Mossos carry months of protests defending their working conditions, as have mayors and mayors of the territory, who lay the critus to the cell before the lack of effect to the different populations. We can't play with the security that protects us all, President. Going into matters of public office, it won't be very hard for us to find moments of underprivileged public workers on behalf of their government, or statements in full heat where the national issue is located as the trunk element, recovering the so-called pujolist of ''that doesn't touch, when we had public servants in little war. Someone might think that these moments are punctual and do not represent the thinking and global governance of their team. But we've done what we've done before: look at what the president said, the chief executive officer, in his investment speech. Specifically, we looked at what he said about the 250,000 public workers who are in line with the Administration he runs. And you know what he said? Res. He didn't say anything. Well, "nothing is correct: in all his speech, he only briefly appreciates that you would work the effort before the application of 155. That's it, don't miss it. It is curious that you have done this grace, a concrete grace for a very concrete period. You, President, sorted out a seven-month period of effort, but it was obvious that public workers have been seven years, not only seven months, making efforts to bring hospitals, schools and public services to this country. And they did it because their predecessors detailed it which could be detailed and which could not be detailed. And if we want to make a thank you, maybe we have to do it together and not just for what we care about. At least today's appearance seems to have served that purpose, because you make a more global thank you to public workers. In addition, recently we saw how, after the counselor Puignero told us repeatedly how impossible it was to recover the extra payments from the employees, it turned out that it was not so impossible, and we found ourselves to have reached an agreement to recover the payments. A simple question of political will. We're glad – that's it – but we hope that the next time we don't get to the gates of a public office slot because that's what happens. However, there are many rights to recover – pension plans, social welfare funds, recovery of the public offer – and that will have to be addressed sooner than later. Just that the counselor has devoted the same time to taking care of the public workers he devotes to digital politics, I am convinced that he will get involved. Finally, President, and I ended up: miri, the pes de la inversión pública, the total expenditure, has risen from 12_per_cent in 2007-2008 to less than half in 2017, a 5_per_cent. It is obvious that this country has suffered from policies that it will triage years to reverse. But what we can't afford is for its president to love when public services are in crisis. And that's what you did, that hot week. Take advantage of the occasion you have here in front of Parliament today to lead measures that will bring it to the country, and, in spite of apologizing, solutions – feasible, realistic – solutions that help the thousands of Catalans who today look at their government and do not see anyone worried about them. He's at his hands, President, and we expect the women to respond.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.142.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão, has the words of the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.143.0	Thank you, Vice President. President, the truth that after eight months – more than eight months – of his investiture and the inn in the run-up to the present government, I must say that for our part we do not believe that there is a great deal of hope or optimism, do we not? This same week – I already mentioned it at the control session – we saw again how a new social conflict enslaved: it was a problem that for his inaction became a social conflict, this time in the taxi sector. And while the government did not bring solutions, because it had to shut down the city for five days, while fifteen thousand families were anxious because I did not know if you would make them a proposal that had a little trellad, you, Mr. Torra, were out of the country. And I think this is the image that shows the withdrawal of the Torra-Aragonese government's functions: while the streets are up, while the families are anxious, you were out of the country. And that's the image of his leaving office. What they tell us about the government should make them reflect: Catalonia is fractured by inequality and you do not offer any solution. Every time, therefore, you are better valued and your government has less support. And it is not only that they have not been able to fulfill their promises, but that the internal battles, their lack of direction is causing them not to deal either with the daily problems of the citizenry. Every time more people who trusted you are looking for other alternatives, every time more progressive people, every time Republicans and Republicans are seeing that an absent government cannot be concerned with the interests of the majority. I think it is normal that this happens, because, of course, you have frustrated great expectations of your social base and you have also dealt with it with indifference and less of the rest, and Catalonia does not want this, Catalonia does not want a government that does not govern, Catalonia does not want a government that oblivates itself from the half of its people, Catalonia does not want a government without courage or courage to reach great consensus. And because I've said it before, too: a government that doesn't rule is a government that doesn't serve. And it only serves those who want to detail rights and freedoms because they find us weak and disloyal. Because, besides, a government that doesn't rule, like it doesn't serve, the citizens, late or late, will get away, because their time is running out and they have the minutes counted, even more in the exceptional situation that is patenting Catalonia. Now more than ever we need a government that stays strong, that has a clear full route. People certainly need, people need security, people need to know who makes the decisions, people need references, and this government is not offering anything about it. Why, in addition to the situation of democratic exceptionality that we are patenting, there is also a situation of social exceptionality, which is leading the seven possibles of shame: you, President, can explain to us – and I would also like you to be here today as well as the Vice-President, because he is the one who carries the economic assumptions – why is one of the richest territories in the State leading the name of daily denunciations? Why? Why do students in Catalonia have to pay the highest university fees in the entire state? Why do Catalans and Catalans have to continue paying with our salvation the details that Convergence applied in its time? Why do we have to pay with our welfare your desire and bet why things are going as they are? Why does Catalonia have to conform to being the territory of the State where wages have lost more purchasing power? They can explain it to us, why? Because we don't understand. All this makes us a society that is poorer, more unequal and lost talent for the way. All this is going away from the referents that we should be staring at to learn and lie down at European standards, which is where we want to emmiralate. Therefore, it is time to start recovering the lost time and to start reversing all of these shortcuts, which are not only directly affecting families, but also public workers see every time that the working conditions are pitiful, and so are the public services that they offer every time are more minvat. Therefore, it is time to be at the height of the Catalan people. That the Torra-Aragonese government is a government that doesn't rule, we don't just say it, we don't just say it; it's that people say it in a multitude of ways: the health professionals said it, the teachers said it, the students said it, the bombers said it, the moves said it... But, of course, you don't see it, you don't want to accept it. And besides, the city doesn't come out on whims, the city doesn't say, "What are we going to do this late? So let's go and manifest ourselves. No, no, People are white, and you don't want to see it. We wear years of supporting retail and public services that are each time more minvat. These synergies have each time deteriorated them further, and it was curious when you were surprised by the response of the Catalan society and spoke of "non-essential questions". So if for you they are non-essential questions, people on the street are saying that they are essential questions; in fact, they are vital questions. And what they show is that they don't understand anything. This is the majority of Catalonia that wants a well-funded public service, this is the majority of Catalonia that wants democracy, that wants freedom and that wants to decide everything. And they don't have to choose, they don't have to choose. I can tend everything. And because they can no longer bear the precariousness that they are patenting. They have experienced the worst detail; our workers and public workers are in the worst conditions throughout the State, and you consider that they are not essential questions. I don't know what they were expecting after these years of detail: I don't know if they expected people, at a given time, not to rise up and demand responsibility, and what we see is that you have done asphyxiation and desire, so a way to work. And I think you're talking a lot about Catalonia, but there's a part of Catalonia that you don't know about – there's a part of Catalonia that you don't know about – and it's what you want to defend civil and political rights and it's what you want to defend social rights. And they don't have to choose. Miri, citizenry can't wait any longer. We wear eight months of slow degradation, of inopérance, of passiveness, seeing that public services are collapsing after very difficult years, and the only response of this government cannot be or look at another side or put last-minute sticks. Because you are a government – we have already said – that you do not rule. But we've also seen them, like the bad students, do their dues at a later time and at a later stage. Actually, we've seen it on repeated occasions. In the first place, you were unable to engage in dialogue and reach agreements until your demands had been remedied. And they were asking for twelve minutes per patient – twelve minutes per patient – and until they went out on the street, until they put you on the spot, they didn't talk to them, they didn't offer them solutions. With the workers and the public workers they showed again a shortage with an intolerable offer to return them what was theirs until finally they were forced to rectify. It's just that the initial proposal... this couldn't stand it. It's just that it can't be. And until they put them against the limit, until they put them against the wall, you don't react. We have seen this with the bombers, too: the people who save lives, who take care of our society, must be in unworthy conditions and without resources to face the fires they face. It's just that it can't be. We saw it the other day, a few weeks ago, in Badalona: a dramatic fire where three people lost their lives, and we have to see the person responsible for the bombers come out and say: "Of course, we did what we were able to with the media we had. It's that this can't happen again in this country, President – it can't happen again, it's intolerable, you can't let these things happen. I insist: and so that they do not rise in the street, until they come to Parliament, to say it colloquially, until they bind it brown, you, as always, late and ill – late and ill. And all that for what? So, I don't understand. Is there any good reason why we are allowing with your inaction all this? Don't you have any other choice? It is obvious that the Generality has many limitations, that we have a financial situation that is very complicated. We'll never deny that. In fact, we're going where we're going, we're going with you to defend a million of the financing system. Always. Now, there are tools to pull, there are ways and there are alternatives to solve things. But, of course, his task of government is neither expected nor expected; that is the only reason why we follow without an expanding social presupposition that responds to this situation of injustice and social crisis that Catalonia sees, where the majority continue to carry on its scale the weight of the crisis and its management, while a minority see that every day it is richer. I'd like to know what the government is up to. Are you willing to give up the help that would come to us from the general assumptions of the State to help abused women? Are you willing to give up public places of dependence for great people? Are you willing to give up strengthening the fire department and its equipment? Are you willing to give up the drop in university fees? Are you willing to give up the financing of the schools in Bressol? Tell us what you're willing to give up. Because we don't want to give up anything. And I have the feeling that the people in the street don't want to give up anything either. Miri, I said it before, too, in the control session, I also mentioned before Mr Aragonès: we are years old light – we are years old light. They've been talking about two presupposition meetings, and I'm the only thing I can tell you is that we're on for years. And, besides, this week he's back to prove himself one more time. We've seen... – that's right, or go on, never seen it–, we've seen a councilman going from Convergence, who was defending the rights of taxi drivers more than a Republican leftist. That's what he's never seen before, go. We saw how Mr Aragonès, the Vice President of the Economy, wanted to launch with open arms the multinationals that pay in tax havens, while Councilman Calvet was defending the interests of taxi drivers more. This is starting to be the world backwards. And what I see is that its passivity, therefore, begins to favor, economically, the richest and, politically, the stagnation of Catalonia. Miri, we don't have any good assumptions for Catalonia. I think it's because of the lack of direction of these months, because of the lack of clarity, and also because you don't agree. From the very first moment, we thought that we were willing to let go of the short glances, that this was not electionism, that this was about responsibility, that it was about bringing forward a country that has painted years and that has public servants that are each time more degraded; that we are willing to negotiate the assumptions of the Generality, I insist, to save the Catalan public servants, to rescue the people that are most painted and to give back a boost to Catalonia. But it is that we are finding ourselves with a government that is unable to present a serious proposition of assumptions that actually involves a change of course to shield public servants and to start applying social justice. If they don't reverse the detail, then they don't count on us. Because we are also finding ourselves with a government that, because of its paralysis because of internal barriers and its lack of leadership, is giving up more resources and using all the tools they have at their disposal to defend Catalonia. They can't go on wasting time. We should be able..., and we will continue to insist, we will continue to fight and we will not lose hope, because we need broad agreements to push the country forward; agreements that must go in progressive claus and that pose the needs of citizenship and life, president, in the center of everything. I said, I think I need a government that knows how to balance what the complaint is, what the demand is, also with management and the acquisition of resources that can solve the lives of the people who need it most. And justice must also be done. The Government of the Generality has to understand that progressive tax reform is not just a means to increase admissions, it is also a way, and mainly a tool, to start applying social justice. The most wealthy must contribute to the common good and public institutions – in short, it is our role – they must make them comply with their duty, because the people who are most hit by the crisis have right to live and not survive. We have to walk towards a new model that democratizes from feminism, that distributes wealth, time and cures; a new product model that is based on the economic transition and aimed at closing the country's territorial Brethren, and that treats its workers and public workers as they deserve. I've told them before that we're light years old. We... well, we'll try. Now, I'm also saying, it's his last opportunity: either to present social assumptions that are at the height of the people of Catalonia or they can start assuming that they don't count on our vote. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.144.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, and that is why the deputy Vidal Aragonese has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.145.0	To understand where we stand, it is also necessary to see how the retail sector of the tripartite government – the PSC, the Republican Left and the United and Alternative Left Initiative – has been affected; but above all, what was the self-named ‘Government of the best, of the best neoliberals and of the best retailers'. It will not give us time to talk about the more than seven details that have been made, or that have been made back years on the public sector, but rather to place its meaning: from the reduction of the subs, arriving at honest payments from 2012, to 2013, 2014 until suspensions of social security complements; a question as essential as the complement of temporary disability, the right to collect the same when it is ill or ill, and so many others. So many others who, today, have not yet rested these rights. I, therefore, first important question: to make it clear that it was not a topic at the time, but that there were some details that came to constitute a new model. The president told us in his speech: "They are inevitable to maintain stability. It meant that inevitable to maintain stability. So, miri, president, we don't share it. Clearly they were avoidable, if we chose not to transfer the crisis to workers and workers in the public sector, and we opted for another exit from the crisis. And to assume in politics those inevitable questions is a defeat, it's not to do politics and it's to assume that there is someone who runs over those and those of us who are representatives and public representatives. Two questions were raised at the next session, discussing the appearance on the part of this subgroup. The first: to differentiate, or if the government differentiated it, what it means to reach agreements in wave mediations, with two waves in relation to three union organizations, in order to solve the problems of the public sector. Because one thing is to reduce labour conflict, and another is to see the problems of the public sector and see that they are not solved. And the second question they raised was that we came here today, the President of the Generality, with concrete proposals; concrete proposals that we believe are measures that must prevent the public sector or that workers in the public sector from having or suffering from temporaryity or lack of job stability, low wages – important sectors in the public sector are with low wages – and working conditions of overload of work, which do not only have an impact on occupational health, but also on the quality of services. If we go to look at these three questions in some subsectors of the public sector, we can still find them more precarious. Non-university education. We convey two very concrete questions. The first: replacements from the first day when you're down; that we still don't have it covered in all the assumptions. O seconda: that the support seedlings to the centers increase. This is the reality that we would ask for, with minimal palliative measures for a public teaching. And when it is said, on the part of the President, today, who announces fifteen_thousand places, the President will have to clarify, obviously, that it is not more workers and workers for the concrete public sector of teaching, but rather places that will undermine the level of inter- and temporality in the public sector. Therefore, they are not really more contributions to the Catalan public sector. I stop having this empty and self-fulfilling speech of Catalan school and successful school, and I begin to read, in a very clear way, that our public school, our public teaching is becoming the first expression of social segregation. Unfortunately, if we skip primary and secondary education to the university, what we find may still be worse about the conditions of the workers and the workers: teachers and associate teachers, who sign contracts each semester, or who sign contracts every year, even though they carry decades to the university; professors and associate teachers with salaries of five-cents or eight-cents_euros; professors and teachers..., which is not a residual expression, data from the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge: 6,541 associate teachers from the year 2017, which implies, according to this department, 26_percent of the teaching; for us, much more than a third of the teaching. We don't just stay in teaching, we also have to see what sanitation has meant. They tell us that they come to an agreement, they talk about measures. But we have already told them, expressly, about measures: more hiring of workers and workers, better working conditions, reducing time and pay. And, look, President, you go here today, and when you talk to us about reducing the temporality that presents us is to replace eventuals by interims. Obviously, this is not really a solution to temporality in the way it is expressed. If in the future, obviously, these interims want to consolidate as the template, welcome follow, but the answer has to be for now. Bombers and firefighters, which we're not talking about. They should go to what the 2012 decree meant, which is a long day and remunerates; but, at the very least, we still have a reality that does not give us an answer, that is that the names "unforeseen hours and foreign hours are paid under ordinary hours. Does anyone think this has any element of rationality? That there is a lack of sufficient staff, such as a structural deficit that does not guarantee to keep the open fire stations. I'm sure these 250 seats will be validated tomorrow, but not even with these 250 seats do we give solutions. We could talk about the workers and workers of Youth Justice or Prison Centers, who tell us, day and day, that there is a lack of staff and need to fill the storm. Or what the DGAIA workers and workers tell us, a very simple question – it's no longer to collect a single cent more, but to be able to work safely –: that there are measures to prevent job risks enough not to see'sabotaged' and permanently at risk. And he also talks to us, when we talk about DGAIA, no longer about workers and public workers, in a strict sense, but about subcontracts and subcontracts. It is not in a strict sense what we see in this appearance today, but we do not want to stop talking about another level still of much more precariousness: those and those who end up providing a public service, but who do not do so directly contracted or contracted for the Government of Catalonia. We tell them that, also for them and for them, they are possible measures, political decisions that would undermine their levels of precariousness. That's right, they're gonna want to take it. And it would seem that, today, the Government is refusing, actively and passively, to put in place measures that may also affect subcontracts or subcontracts. We wanted to put an end to another general idea, a weak and precarious public sector of workers and workers, which does not allow us to build a society that approaches elements of social justice. Or, from another perspective, at the same time, a weak and precarious public sector makes it extremely difficult to advance in the exercise and the right of self-determination, which means, for a band, to have a social state that gives answer to the need of our people, but also to have political structures that express sovereignty. This must also be the Administration. Today the president said to us, two hours ago: "It is the struggle for social laws that the republic will bring. So, unfortunately, president, we are not seeing this struggle for the social laws that the republic will bring. Which means two things: first, that it would seem that where it is already a trend, that the government does not want to build a republic, it is also moved into another reality, that it does not want to have a powerful public sector that gives life to this republic. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.146.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, it's the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, and that's why Congressman Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.147.0	Thank you so much. President, why is the government not talking at any time about public services, about public service, and it is practically necessary to force them to come and talk about it through appearances? Because, in fact, Catalonia is experiencing a period of undemocratic exceptionality. But not because justice is doing its job, not because the rule of law restores legality; it lives it because since December 21st you did not properly interpret what had happened. Could they form an autonomous government? Yeah. But they could not create the figure of the legitimate president in exile in Waterloo. They couldn't do that. A president not voted by this chamber, emptiing of content and competences that has been elected by this chamber, who voluntarily declares himself a puppet of Waterloo, accepting this new situation. The figures of the government in exile and the president in exile are profoundly undemocratic, in addition to illegitimate. Banalizing that is a serious irresponsibility. Looking elsewhere, Mr. Iceta, in this matter, is a serious irresponsibility. A possible intervention of Catalonia's autonomy is not a threat. Waterloo is the threat. A threat that requires an answer while it lasts. And in his hand is cut or not the umbilical cord with Waterloo ; in his hand is to avoid major evils. The consequences of Waterloo's threat are of all kinds. Some of them are psychological, delirium-moving, such as seeing the tenant of Waterloo report to the Constitutional Court, to which he has previously called a fascist, asking for his constitutional rights of a constitution that does not comply, and then asking for protection from the fascist state and then, as Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, shouting at all the winds: "I accuse! I accuse you! Somebody please explain this move to me, because I don't understand it. There are other even more serious consequences: institutional emptiness, the non-legislative Parliament, the non-government, the creation of parallel, absolutely allusive structures, such as the CoRs, which have acted these months as alternative law enforcement forces, such as parallel law enforcement forces, with political orders that legitimate law enforcement forces should not act. Well, well, you have to decide if you continue with this situation of undemocratic anomaly. You have to decide whether or not to cut the umbilical cord with Waterloo. And you know it, it's unreplaceable. They know that. You know that it is necessary and in the background some of you want it, but you have gotten into that rhetoric that you yourself promoted, that of the one hundred and fifty and five silver coins, in which you look at the botifler to point out. And no one wants to be a botifler. And, therefore, they continue in this absolutely delusional spiral. Well, while they're still struggling to find the next botifler around the corners, ruling gives them laziness. It makes them lazy and they don't show up and they don't explain things. And we see it in the subject we are dealing with today, when we talk about public services or when we talk about the situation of public workers. I have listened attentively to the President's intervention and what I have seen are excuses of bad payer when talking about the recovery or non-recovery of the 2013 and 2014 salaries; non-compliances of parliamentary agreements on acquired labour rights lost since 2012 in such important matters as pension plan, permits, training, and also excuses of bad payer that at this point nobody believes them. This overperformance with the consequences of article 155. You know perfectly well that during those months everything worked out with absolute normality. The most obvious proof is that on November 29 one thing was unlocked that you had blocked: two thousand teacher places were taken out that you were unable to take out. But beyond. You should ask Mrs Artadi, who is now overacting, but who lived with absolute tranquility that stage. I think the 155th Committee of Inquiry could perhaps invite her and explain how happy she was going to her work, even though she is now trying to show that that was absolutely insufferable hell. They are also excuses for poor payers who use them to talk about financing. I have repeated it here many times: Republican Left presented the financing model in 2009 saying that it was the best in history and that it had to have, worth redundancy, a twenty-five-year term – 2009. And the following year they were already saying "Madrid steals from us. That was the model you presented, that was the model you approved. Why do you always have to resort to this mantra when it is false and does not conform to the political practice that you had all those years? Waterloo has consequences. And it has harmful consequences: degradation of the political system in Catalonia, degradation of the quality of the institutions in Catalonia, degradation, in short, of the democratic quality. Waterloo's not just that. Waterloo is the downfall of Catalonia. Waterloo is the lie. Waterloo is the deception of the one who fled without warning his own companions. Waterloo is the delirium, in short, in which Catalan politics lives. And you, like memes those, know it – you know it. And they'd love to be able to avoid it, but they're afraid they'll call them botiflers. And in that dynamic absolutely, I insist, delusional they remain installed. Well, you still have the opportunity to recover..., we never cared, at the time of the tripartite there was a government with independent partners. It was a disastrous government, everyone knows it, but it was a democratic government and it was a government that worked its way. Therefore, ideology is not a problem, as you say. The problem is the undemocratic anomaly of having transferred political decisions to a ghostly structure called Waterloo and the presidency in exile. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.148.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.149.0	Thank you very much, President. Members, Members, today the President of the Generality has come here to rest, to explain the situation of the public servants of the Generality. It's true, he came to petition the main opposition groups, but it's also true, and they don't forget, that we all voted together. And so, when they explain that you've come to disgrace... man, it seems to me that unfortunately, precisely, it is not, if we all voted together, and it seems to me that we've demonstrated once and for a thousand times the will of this government to always explain itself, in the easy and difficult times. Now, I think we also have to say that very good, very good, very good what they were asking for didn't come out. Because you wanted to be a disaster scener, you wanted to come down here and rip off the waves of doctors, the waves of you working... and there are no waves of doctors and there are no waves of you working. (Founding voice) I don't feel well. This is a government that works to seek agreements and to seek consensus. And I think the best demonstration is what happened between you asking for it and finding us here today. They wanted to find answers and solutions. And, listen, it's not cophoism, that's it, we're first conscious that there's a lot, a lot, a lot of work left and still a lot of work left to reverse all the details or to reverse them even more. We have a lot of work to do to consolidate the economic recovery, to make sure that all those who have suffered, especially in these years of lean cows, benefit the first of this recovery. But we have a government that governs, we have a government that has the will to dialogue with everyone, to reach agreements with everyone, also with social workers, with public workers and with unions. And this – and they can't say another thing – has been demonstrated by the last few days with the agreement that unlocked the metre wave, the result of the agreement between the Catalan Institute of Health and Metges of Catalonia, with an investment of 100_million euros: a solution that increases but also improves its working conditions; an agreement that preserves the primary care model and guarantees medical assistance and the dignity of professionals; a solution that we must acquiesce to the whole government, but especially to Consteller Vergés, who today is reinstated after the maternity discharge, and also to the economic effort of the Department of Economy and the mediation of the Department of Treball. I, therefore, therefore, work together, work of all. But that's not what's left here. The 17th of September agreed between the government and the unions to return the extra pay of 2013. Therefore, to recover the labor rights that were lost in the time of crisis. And this implies that 2019 will return 40_percent of the 2013 pay and, by 2020, the remaining 60_percent. And between 21 and 22, the 2014 extra pay, with a productivity supplement of 50_per_cent for the two years. And you... ah! They couldn't talk or didn't want to talk very well; but, at the very least, we would accept that they might say it's a slow recovery – slow. Maybe so. But at the same time, it gives answer to a demand for calendars that the companies of the unions, who today accompany us up there, have been asking us for a long time. Therefore, a calendar that the women secure over this recovery, security that they now have. And we can't help but say that it represents a huge effort at the economic level and even more if we take into account the expenditure rule, which limits the ability to invest, the increase of the generality's reversal. A limitation that neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol wanted to settle, and, despite this, the agreement also included an increase of 1.95 of the wage during 2008 and the collection of the cent_per_cent of the income from the first day of low work. A compromise, therefore, that gives us guarantees of a public service of quality and that is seen, too – and this has also come out in many cases in the intervention of the groups... –, it has also been converted into a call for public occupation, the most ambitious of the Generality of Catalonia: 30,000 places, of which 15,000 have already been approved; 10,000 places of teaching staff, 5,000 places of staff of the Administration and Technical, with the aim of reducing the temporality by 8_percent. So I don't know, Mrs. Arrimadas, for example, how many times she's met with the unions, but this 8_per_cent is a history. I've been sharing meetings with unions for years and talking about 8_per_cent. So, when you talk about temporality, I think what you should do at this point is highlight the agreement that allows us to reach the solution that historically the majority unions of this country had placed on the table. And, in addition, there is no part of these places that are already published at the DOGC: 5,000 places for the doctrinal bodies by 2019, under the leadership of Councillor Bargalló, with an objective that is not only to stabilize the seedlings, but also to modernise the selection processes. And this debate, which isn't the one about the bars, maybe we should do it too. And that makes it possible to begin to reduce the memoristic part of the tests and to select, at a time, candidates based on skills and pedagogical quality. It was about time – it was about time. And we're not just expanding the Generality's staff, we're improving the selection and, therefore, we're running away from those obsolete models that don't represent in any case the needs of the Administration. I, passing on the list of public occupation, even though it is small, can not forget to highlight the calls for managers and inspectors of the Tax Agency of Catalonia : 41 places, which must be added to the 721 workers who today are part of the staff. And we want to highlight this because, for us, the ATC is an exhibition of how Catalonia is more sovereign, more self-management, more and better administration. Because it is this ATC that brought out 557 million tax frauds between 2015 and 2017, and that has allowed us to take over the direct management of taxes transferred to the hands of the property's registrars. A good example of the republic we want. So, beyond the pretensions of some parliamentary groups to inflame the social conflict in order to break down, we dare to say that this is the government of the social pact, because it has achieved more pacts than the two previous governments, of the quality occupation, of the guarantee of rights for all citizens, of the guarantee of universal access to public services of quality. And all this did, in a very good way, for the ability to generate efficiencies, to dimension tickets of the Department of Economics, under the leadership, first, of Oriol Junqueras and, today, of Vice President Aragones. Made by this will and this opportunity to connect the Economics Council with the Vice-President of the Government, who has allowed us to strengthen the tools available to the Government to scale the economy and the entrances, overcoming... – as it seems to me that it was the group of the PSC that gave it in the text that came to demand the appearance – overcoming the ideological details, ending with a model that intended to combat the fall of entrances through the sale of the capital of the Generality and the content of the expenditure. A task that begins in line that has characterized both the team of Vice President Junqueras as well as the team of Vice President Aragonès: manage efficiently and responsibly. And the formula? Not often complicated: taxing the most of them, deploying environmental taxes that penalise the negative impact of activities on the territory, with changes in the deductions of the IRPF, with us in the rate of the tax on capital transfers, with the tax on sugar-excessed drinks, with changes to the tourist tax, that all together, all of us have allowed us to increase the Generalitat's tickets up to 1,200_millions. And an input that we can't help but say that it would have been higher if it weren't for the permanent activism of the Government of Spain and the Constitutional Court, with its willingness to scan the Generality. And in the later legislature we can put as examples the tax on the media environmental risk radiotoxic, which are 60_million more, or the tax on the large commercial establishments, which are 20_million, which may not be so many. Therefore, it is not so much the resources, but also the model they represent. And that's why, for us, they were and continue to be important and with this will we try to get them back. A considerable effort to move forward..., and I think that we should take all of this into account, especially the left-wing groups, so that we can move forward in a progressive and green taxation; and there is room and we are willing to talk about it to do more and better. We always want to talk about everything. Now, if what they want is what they want, they can continue to intoxicate; if what they want is to contribute to public services of quality, the best decision they can take is to make a constructive opposition, help us to process and discuss the Generalitat's assumptions for 2019, assumptions of progress, that definitively consolidate the path of the reversal of the flaps, that possess the fruits of the economic recovery to the service of the citizenry, assumptions that want to be the best guarantee that no one in this country is left behind. A firm bet for redistribution and social cohesion; 300_millions for guaranteed citizenship income, 25_millions to match the prices of grades and masters and to deploy wage scholarships, which will allow the most disadvantaged students to compensate for the opportunity cost of devoting themselves to studying instead of working, or recovering, and no less, the generality's funding to the families of municipal infants. Both the commons and the PSC have lashed Pedro Sánchez's assumptions as the most social of the story, so maybe it's time to put it black on white and look at the dice, and see who's actually reverting the clips. If you're surprised, Mrs. Arrimadas, the data contradicts what you were explaining to us in your intervention – they will find that the social expenditure of the State, with 17,000_millions, still does not exceed 18,000 of 2010, and, in turn, the Generalitat has planned a social expenditure of 20,000_millions that represent more than 1,000_millions of euros more than there were in 2010, which were 19.157. It may be good to start taking notes, because it seems to me that the interventions of the groups have not been here, and these data are easy to count, they are objective, and they show who has actually reversed the details. The one that continues under the assumptions of Pedro Sánchez is the reversal of the details to the Ministry of Defense, where they re-dedicate another time 10,000_millions, 500_millions more than 2009. If we compare what the PSOE's decision is in its first actions, which is to guarantee military spending, and we contrast it with what the Government of the Generality did here, which was over 155, we will see that we chose to pull out 251 contract shippers and prorogations to social service providers that were put up for Article 155, and that they were immediately unlocked for the Homrani Councillor, or that we also unlocked 42_millions for guaranteed citizenship income, or, yes, that we put 20_millions in the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation to be able to cope with what? , to the change of permanent criteria of the State on how to count VAT, and we will not let anyone touch our corporation, and less than I intend to close it, many times that some groups of this chamber repeat it. Also this discretion with which defence assumptions increase contrasts with the discretion with which parties destined for Catalonia are lowered. Between 2009 and 2015, the percentage of investment executed respects the assumed investment in Catalonia has always been under the middle of the state, which is already low, 74 percent. I, to put a graphic, clear example, we can talk about 2016. In 2016, the State only executed 35.6 per cent of the work it assumed, and that, when we talk about the extras of the presupposition, when we talk about the Spanish presupposition, when they say "rain of millions – a classic," I think we hear it very often, therefore, knowing that ultimately the rain of millions ends up assuming an execution of 30 per cent of what they said, man, so it's good to take it into account. Look, the plot of the problem, the greatest difficulty in securing public services in Catalonia, is how to protect us from the arbitrariness and discretion of a state against it, and it's very difficult. But despite this difficulty, despite their difficulty, the effort that has been made in this country in the last few years has led us to agreements..., to a social concertation, to agreements with unions that we have not seen – that we have not seen – in many years. And I know very hard that in his interventions he has forgotten about this subject, which is absolutely appropriate. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.150.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the groups, it is the turn of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Mrs Gemma Geis has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.151.0	Well, good morning, President Torrent, President Torra, advisors, deputies, deputies. First, therefore, thank the appearance made by President Torra. To remind the opposition groups that we voted for it; that surely they would like this appearance not to be uncontextualized, but it is, because each wave, therefore, has found a solution. The truth is that President Torra made reference before, right? To Mrs Arrimadas, to which she refers only to the problems and not to the solutions, and, listening to her, therefore, we follow this, because she has not made any reference, no reference, to the solutions, to the measures of government action that President Torra has enumerated. Also, when she refers to the ideological pressure..., look, do you know what the ideological pressure is, Congresswoman Arrimadas? Ideolological pressure is that a democratically elected mayor comes out of his house, holding him in charge, and rejuvenating him to the ground. This is ideological pressure. [[Greetings.]] Two. I am also surprised when Members, Mrs Arrimadas, the Member of the PP, and also to some extent Mrs Gibert refer to the 155th Commission. Come on, aren't they part of the 155th Commission? Come, listen, ask. We voted for all the documents that you asked for from the Board of Inquiry. Why do they come to talk about 155 if they don't show up at the investigation commissions later? They're still a little coherent. Actually, of course, if you, Mr. Married, or Mr. Fernández, what you do is ask for the application of 155, deal with those who want it, so I don't understand..., or I understand absolutely what its position is. And I already tell you, Mr. Casado, that the umbilical cord with Waterloo – that I think his appearance here..., I don't know if he's been sent from Madrid, but – we won't. Do you know why? Because it's carving the umbilical cord with the ballot boxes and with the votes of the citizens, and we'll never do that together for Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] But as the government governs, and President Torra has made a appearance, we have listened to this appearance, and what we are clear is that this government, therefore, at every interbank, has proposed exceptional measures, measures. We come from a context of content and each of these measures have been agreed by the different councils. The president has explained in detail, as you asked at the appearance, each of the recoveries of the workers' rights in the public administrations and I think we have to put them in value because you do it by obviating them, denying them, while demanding a appearance. 2012 recovered the payment of 100_percent of the sum in case of temporary incapacity for the most damaged collection and expanded for all cases until last October. 2014 saw the return of the 14th pay, entered it in the assumptions, which, as you know, was linked to the receipts for the capitalization of the tax on the credits to the entities of credit that the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional. Mr Fernández, your intervention, when the European Court of Human Rights condemns everything we are living in Catalonia, I will remind you. A decision, this decision of the Constitutional Court, which made it impossible to return this payment and which entailed another limitation on the autonomy to be financed. 2015 was a recovery of this pay and the workers will charge back the cent_per_cent of the sou. In 2017, two agreements are attached to the bargaining table with the unions, which allow the repositioning fee to be set at thirty_ thousand places and the subscription of 10_percent of the extra pay from 2013 to 2018. This agreement could not be completed – as you have met the counselor – in a year. When the councillor is complaining here in Parliament it was because it was a bad reference that the payment of the extra payments that are more than 1,100_million euros could not be made in a year. Why? So because Article 41, the additional provision of the Law of Presumptions, the subject to the compliment of the rule of expense and deficit. And you said: "Prioritzin, priority. Yeah, yeah, let's get ahead of ourselves. And the government has done it and reached this agreement. When they say: "Agree..., that they are going to raise the unions. Well, the union... since the first day, the councilwoman said it was a first proposal and that there was room for improvement and margin. And with all the advice and with the vice president in the lead, it was possible to come to an agreement. In 2018 the Government reached a very important agreement, ratified by the General Negotiating Bureau, which allowed..., will allow this first quarter of the year 2019 to return the first part of the 2013 payment. Yesterday, Consteller Artadi announced herself in a press wheel after the council's approval of the decree that makes it possible, to more than the increase in the remuneration of public workers for 2019, that it was agreed, the past 8 of generation, to fix it at 2.75. Therefore, there has always been a willingness for dialogue and willingness to negotiate on the part of this Government in each of the vague crises that have taken place on the part of the majority unions. And, therefore, it came to an agreement on the 12th of December of the past year. With this same willingness to negotiate – you forget it in your interventions, but – you also reached an agreement with the ICS and Metges de Catalunya, which also allowed you to stop the vacancy. As Mrs Vergés explained, in addition, in her intervention, many of the measures that are being applied by the Council. I would also like to value the work of the Digital Policy Department, because... – Annabel Marcos, the General Secretary of Public Service is here – because the same 8 generation of this year's trade unions were reunited and were working in more action to recover the rights of public workers. They already see that despite some discrediting the pocket at the front of the Digital Policies consultancy saying: "Torna appointed him a counselor for being the architect of the computer chiringuito. The reality is that we have more than eight agreements with unions in the field of public service. I also want to highlight the task of the Department of Economics in this sense. All these impediments have been resolved and that is why President Torra said: "Every proposal has a solution, every proposal has more government. And we are the parliamentary group, surely, that we are clear that we want the Catalan Republic. Like the instrument, why? So to do social policy, to ensure the rights and conditions of public workers and because it is obvious that we cannot depend on every year of the Spanish Presumables Act or on what the Constitutional Court decides. And why do you talk about the precariousness of public office I always say: "And the repositioning fee from whom do you depend? From whom do they charge the repositioning fee when we have to summon seats? The repositioning rate does not depend on the Catalan Government, the repositioning rate depends on the Spanish Government. Therefore, in this sense we would be happy to have the utmost sovereignty in order to be able to decide. The Generality, although it has made public offers of employment as great as it could, is always connected to this repositioning rate, but recently it has approved more than thirty-thousand places to carry out processes of stabilization and consolidation of plants, which, as the Sabria deputy said, with this agreement that came from an 8_per_cent, that we came from a 43_per_cent..., therefore, an agreement of 8_per_cent with the unions, so as to reduce the temporality indexes into metrics, teachers, firefighters and movers. And the president pointed out this, and you made reference to it in his speech. They affect more than 15,000 teachers, places, more than 9,000 health professionals, more than 6,000 people destined for the administration of labor personnel, 1,300 opposition places, than last year..., for family doctors and more than 200 primary care. All this untiring pocket is also working with assumptions. In this sense, we are talking about the future, and beyond the assumptions of the Spanish State, of the Spanish Government, which interests us, for which we work is for the Catalan assumptions. Why? Because we want sovereignty, we want the maximum exercise in the current situation to improve conditions and to guarantee quality public services on behalf of all the citizens of Catalonia. And think that we know and know that these assumptions are working from apriorism that social policies are cross-cutting to all the councils of the Government of the Generality. And, therefore, I support most of the adoption of these assumptions by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, because these assumptions must be social, because these assumptions must reverse and improve the living conditions of all citizens. Therefore, we, and President Torra in his intervention, have made reference to the demands of the workers of the Generality, of the Bomber Cos, of Mossos because, unlike those who think some, we do not live in Matrix. We meet with unions, we meet with moves, we meet with firemen and we meet with each of the collectivities and we get their complaints and our positions as a parliamentary group. Therefore, we defend the effective recovery of their rights, as has happened, without interference coming from outside, because what we want is to ensure the quality of public services. We want the government to continue working; it will have us at its side to reach pacts, because we have some public bodies and services that must be the maximum guarantee possible for all society, because we believe in equal opportunities and believe in the best conditions of all people living in Catalonia. Therefore, we will continue to work and be fond of the actions that from the government, from different departments is taken in this environment. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.152.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The representatives of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups have spoken once more, the President of the Generality will speak again to reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.153.0	Yes, thank you, President. I will reply to each of the parliamentary groups, first of all the Ciutadans Group. And again to congratulate Mrs. Arrimadas on a new record this morning, she managed to put in a debate about the situation of public services, I think that..., we will have to see it in the photo finish, eh? But I think that between the second 10 and 15 the word "Otegi..., I mean it seems really remarkable to me, but I think that with a little effort you will be able to overcome it. I encourage him to work hard, to see if we can put the word "Otegi" between 5 and 10, which I think is also a repte for which I encourage him to fight. [[Greetings.]] Miri, in my Matrix, in which I live, I try to focus on data, and I go to the barometers, so, and to the inquests, to know how the citizens value the services we lend them. The health barometer of the year 2017 said that the citizens of Catalonia value healthcare with a remarkable, concretely 7,2_per_cent, when 2014 this value was 6,8_per_cent. So I think we're on the right track; I hope that when we know the data from the last barometer, so I'm still on the same line. Similarly, in the Public Security Survey on the Mossos d'Esquadra, the 2017 rating is 7.8_per_cent, the best of all the series from year 2000 to 2017. This government governs, fulfills its promises and commitments, and I think that the best proof that we can offer today to all of you is precisely the decree we approved in the executed council, in which we went, as you all know, to approve the salary increase for this year for all of you working 2.5_per_cent. We committed ourselves and at the first meeting we held of the execution council, so we approved it. And, as Congresswoman Gemma Geis has done, I am very sorry that you accused this government of ideological pressure when you were working. Do you know how many agents in the squadron are charged for October 1st and should go to court? Do you know how many? Do you know how many masters are charged for the events of October 1st? - Masters, huh? Do you know that the general agent of the Generalitat is charged? Public servants of this country accused of collaborating in the organization of a reference... listen to me, this is pressure... it's much more than ideological pressure, huh? : this is ideological persecution. And that's what's going on in this country. [[Greetings.]] To the deputy of the PSC... You certainly don't like the way I deal with problems, how I respond before the citizenry, etc.; I can't do it anymore. But I never guessed, and I don't let her tell me I love me. In a very complicated situation in this country, in a historical situation of enormous complexity, I and this Government are giving face every day, with all the problems, with political prisoners, with exiles, with the right to self-determination, with MENA, fighting with them to meet their legitimate demands, with masters, from culture, from agriculture..., all the way. You can say that this government doesn't like the work it does, that it could make it different; but don't ever say we love each other, because we're giving our faces at every moment. With regard to guaranteed income, you go through high school, don't you? , which, for example, during the time of Article 155, those months of application of Article 155, it was not possible to deploy the regulation, which distorted radically, therefore, everything that this Government intended to do during the year 2018; nor was it possible to deploy the Government Council of Guaranteed Income, etc. And that, in these last months and last weeks of the year 2018, so, we have tried to reverse it to the extent of our possibilities. At this point guaranteed income is already 116,228 people, huh? , of which – if you allow me, more than that, you know that this also generates a whole possibility of employment insertion, together with this theme– 11,000 people have joined the SOC thanks to this fact, 2,600 people have found work and have ceased to be beneficiaries of guaranteed income, 15,000 people are following a specific training or follow-up program. I think it's just one of the projects, and sense of doubt, without, now, the constraints of Article 155, this 2019 guaranteed income, therefore, will have this impulse that we all want to give it. I didn't visit Can Ruti, but I visited the Mine Cap. I don't know if you've visited him, the Mine CAP. Did you visit him? I ask you, Congressman, have you visited the Mine CAP? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, all right, all right, all right, all No, I'm telling you why I also visit hospitals, visit schools, huh? I'm trying to keep up with everything that's going on, I'm trying to listen to all your legitimate demands, of course I am. [[Widow's remorse.]] That's why we met their demands and did everything we could to meet the demands...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.154.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.155.0	...health personnel, huh? And I come back to where we always have to insist, which is on the subject... You said: "No, it's clear that investments, investments... Oh, "investments; we talk about investments. And to talk about the investments we have to talk about 16.570_million euros, which is 8.4_percent of Catalan GDP, of the fiscal deficit. We never hear them, to you, talk about this topic, ever; it's like you don't exist. Oh, come on, it would be nice if some time the PSC, some time, there, and that's not why it's out of line, so you're talking about the tax deficit, huh? Perhaps to say, simply to say that you do not believe that there is a fiscal deficit; perhaps you have this position, they say: "No, there has been no fiscal deficit in Catalonia. It would be good to know. But if they think that there is a fiscal deficit in Catalonia, it would also be useful to know, in order to be able to hear, on this subject, what is his position and who are his solutions. And you know why I remember that? Because this tax deficit amounts to the same amount that 2017 was spent on social spending. I mean, imagine we're making this hypothetical calculation – that we don't have a fiscal deficit and that we can have these resources: we could double the education, education and security assumption; so, without this fiscal deficit. And since you've asked me a lot of questions, I would also like to ask you a favor; to you and the PSC group: please, trick President Sanchez and ask him to help Open Arms. Ask him to help Open Arms, please. [[Greetings.]] To the group of the commons... I am sorry to start just as I did with your deputy: I do not accept that I speak of desirousness or neglect of functions; absolutely. You might say you don't agree with how we handle it, and I respect that criticism, huh? He may say, "No, I would do it this way; or, "You are not insisting on this. But absolutely that this government is leaving its functions or acting with desire. This is not an absent government, this is a present government; present in all problems. And that one day I'm out of the country or something's going on in Catalonia, I assure you that that doesn't mean I can't be known the minute that's going on in Catalonia, huh? It seems to me that we are in the year 2018 and that, therefore, I can hear... (fons voice), 2019, certainly, it is true, and therefore, I can understand that for the immediateness of the communication, as for example this day with the whole topic of the taxi ride, I was perfectly informed of what was going on and I was with direct communication not only with Councilman Calvet, but with Councilman Buch, and then on the evening we saw each other. I mean, this seems like a way to me, honestly, that I don't..., it doesn't seem like a good criticism, absolutely. Also, about your perches, huh? I'm doing it, too, 'cause. How could it be, right? How can Catalonia, with the resources it generates, find itself with these presuppositionary constraints? And I think we all have the same answer, too, which is this unbearable tax deficit. I'd also like to know a little bit more about you, your position on this subject. Why, of course, do you imagine having the ability to use all the resources that this country generates? You imagine having the full legislative capacity to legislate on everything that this country is asking of us, right? It's then that we can make an opportune contrast. While all this cannot be enjoyed, it is difficult for us to have the same opportunities and to attend to the investments that this country deserves. On the assumptions of the State and possible fears that you say we shouldn't let go, so right, there are important fears in the assumptions of the State. But do you also believe that you must vote for a state assumption with that militaristic assumption that you suppose? Or a presumption of the state as its deputy, Marta Sibina, at the Congress is defending not to vote, because we have the problem that we have with Open Arms? Perhaps we look at the general premise of the Spanish State in all its complexity, all the good that it could bring us, all the pain that it could also bring us, and above all, it gives me the feeling that, above all, I do not want to give up to negotiate these assumptions is to the freedom of my country, I do not want to give up there. And, therefore, to negotiate these assumptions, we have laid very clear conditions, which is a political negotiation on the right to self-determination. It seems to me to be a rather obvious position, rather clear as to why there is an answer from the Spanish Government, which we hope will be positive. A government that wants to solve a political situation politically, I suppose it will have no problem addressing this issue. To the companies of the CUP... I also want a strong public sector and where there is no such precarious work; of course I do. And that's why we're pushing the return of social laws, and that's why we've pushed the growth of plants, these thirty-thousand public employees we'll have, and that's why we've put forward the most social assumptions ever presented by the Government of the Generality. That your group can be insufficient? I agree, but they're the most social assumptions ever made in Catalonia. To Mr. Fernández, of the People's Party, the truth is that he surprised me... didn't think that Mr. Puigdemont was a Generality official, huh? , because I see that all his intervention was based, therefore, on criticizing President Puigdemont and his delusion. To me, I'm sorry to say, but the one that seemed absolutely delusional to me was his intervention, on a subject that was supposed to be about public services, and he shows up here talking about Waterloo and threatening us. It's pretty gross, isn't it? That a member of the Parliament of Catalonia from this chamber has already threatened you with applying 155, right? I don't know... this is his institution, huh? The Parliament of Catalonia is its institution, and the Government is also its government, the institution of all. (Founding voice) So with the slightest intention of not loading him, intent on threatening to carry his country's institutions! (Applause.) For God's sake! I don't know, it seems to me, too, that... well, I don't know, that you, the PSOE and Citizens vote in Extremadura to apply Article 155, I, what do you want me to say? I don't think I'm going to qualify for it either. But Members of this Parliament, Catalan Members of this Parliament, tend to carry the Catalan institutions, which simply seems to me to be an absolutely unacceptable thing. (Whispering) And returning to President Puigdemont, I simply want to remind him of only three themes. He's not here to defend himself, is he? And it seems to me that when you make these criticisms to Members of this Parliament who are not here to defend themselves, so it seems like a tremendous political barrage, honestly, because they don't have the opportunity to say it. I remind you that President Puigdemont is a regulated institutional body for the law, that he has a legal residence in Belgium and, for what we know – and for what we all know – he has no arrest warrant pending outside the territory of the State; that an German court judged him and decided that there was no rebellion or siege. (Founding voice) Yes, neither rebelled nor besieged. (Applause and voice remorse.) And this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.156.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.157.0	And that, with the "I'm accused," is what we're going to present in our company's political trials, huh? And, therefore, I just wanted to remind you of all this, since you have written it to Members of this chamber in this Parliament. Finally, in Esquerra and the Junta Group for Catalonia, thank you for your exhibitions. I think that, indeed, this is a government that seeks the social pact, this is a government that seeks the recovery of social rights, and this is a government that bases its action of government on putting people at the center of its activity and working effectively and responsibly, and above all, by all means, that does not fuel social conflict, but seeks solutions to social conflicts. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.158.0	Thank you, President. The parliamentary groups and sub-groups will continue to intervene again. They have seven minutes and a half, the parliamentary groups, according to the Board of Spokesmen, and four minutes, the subgroups. It began, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the lady Inés Arrimadas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.159.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Torra, you told me that I put the word ‘Otegi' in my speech, didn't you? What was a shame is that you had to file an appearance to talk about Otegi in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[applause]] That was a shame. What a shame! - What a shame! – the defender of a terrorist like Otegi, the president of the Generalitat. But I don't think you're even a good defender, because you just said a barbarity... you say Puigdemont was tried in Germany? Did you just say that, you, here, that Puigdemont has been...? And he restates it with his head. Have I been told that you are a law graduate? [[Give me the applause.]] Oh, my God! - My mother! I don't know, Counselor, maybe you'll have a little time to explain to him that Mr. Puigdemont hasn't been tried, no; the court ruled an extradition order, he wasn't tried. But what world do you live in? Where did you get it right? Do you, Catalonia, manage at that level? And besides, it's not that you've had a lapsus, because a lapsus can have everyone, and I get it, huh? ; reaffirms that Puigdemont was tried. That's right, man, that's right; that's what Mr. Torra says. Mr. Torra, that the republic does not exist and that Puigdemont has not been judged in Germany, that no, really not. [[Greetings.]] My mother, my mother, my mother. The speech of « Spain steals from us, of course; the magic condition, the explanation to all the explanations. That does not hang, Mr Torra, that does not hang, the « Spain robs us; that the biggest fiscal deficit that the Catalans have had has been the theft of the systematic 3_per_cent of some parties, here. [[Greetings.]] That's a tax deficit. Another fiscal deficit suffered by officials is that their salaries have been used for years to help the Generalitat finance itself. In the pockets of Catalan officials there is indeed a fiscal deficit, the rights and the payments you owe them. That's a fiscal deficit. But you have not given me an answer to a very simple question: why in Catalonia have we suffered the biggest social cuts since 2009? Why? Because in Catalonia we have more chiringuitos than any other autonomous community in Spain. Why? Because in Catalonia we have higher positions than any other autonomous community in Spain. Why? Because the high offices of Catalonia are the ones that charge the most from all of Spain. Why? Why is it that staff salaries have been cut the most? Why? Why do we have the most expensive public television in Catalonia? Why? Is that why Madrid is also to blame? Or doesn't that money steal from us Spain? Is it not perhaps that you have given very bad priority, that you are experts in creating well - paid little bars, as we have said before? And perhaps it will be, perhaps, that an administration like the Generalitat of Catalonia has very serious problems to solve and that are sometimes not easy? Is that no longer the theory and the reality that Spain steals from us, that every time it beats fewer people, Mr Torra? It is not easy to meet social needs such as those that the Generalitat has had to do during these years of crisis, it is not easy. It is not easy, at a time of falling incomes and increasing social needs, it is not easy. But that the fault is not Spain, that other autonomous communities have had the same problem, with a system of financing far more harmful even, of course, than ours, and have not cut as you have cut. It is that you have the longest and largest scissors of all the autonomous communities, and for that it is only you who are to blame. And we recognize them... it's not easy. We are a sensible, serious party: we have to square the accounts, we have to meet deficit targets. But it's that you don't prioritize; it's that, then, to plug 112,000 euros into your friends, you have. So the indignation of the public service is enormous. Besides, they deny the problems. The spokesman for Esquerra comes to say that we have to congratulate ourselves because we have an 8_per_cent of precariousness. Are you already in 8_per_cent in the Republic of Matrix? Are you guys out there on the 8th? No, it's just, look, in Catalonia, the 36, of temporality. You say: "No, you cannot make alarmism and come here to sell problems that do not exist. It's just that what you've proposed is ads. When we get to that 8_per_cent we'll celebrate it, if it comes. But they cannot say that we do not tell the truth, because the reality of Catalans is that they are in a 36,6_per_cent of temporality in the public service, rather than other autonomous communities. But this will be non-essential issues for Mr Pujol, won't it? Don't wait until the strikes arrive. Do not wait until strikes arrive to react, because they do much harm to the services, to the citizens, to the professionals. Don't wait for strikes. The spokesman for Esquerra said: "No, there are no strikes. I don't know if you've heard, I don't know if they've yet arrived in the republic, but there's a strike called for February. Do not wait for the strike calls, because it is very harmful. As for the squares, they have not answered me; all the squares that I have taught them have been promised and have not been summoned. A lot of frustration in a lot of people. And I'm going to tell you one thing that wasn't called up, even being able to do that, and it's never promised, look: five hundred squares fixed for justice, eh, counselor? , for justice – counselor, pardon –, five hundred fixed seats, which the Government of Spain, that evil Government of Spain, gave the okay for you to call. We asked here a question in 2016. Textual answer, textual answer of the counselor: "It is that, of the opponents who come to oppose Catalonia, three out of four come from other territories of the State. We've decided... that's why our proposal is not to call for opposition. You have five hundred places waiting in court with the money so you can summon them. [[Widow's remorse.]] They want to stop proceedings and call the places of officials, even if people come from other parts of Spain, which is not so bad – it is not so bad.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.160.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.161.0	Madam Counselor, it's all right. Don't be afraid of other people coming from the rest of Spain. And, of course, a lot of unfulfilled promises, of moves, of firemen, of doctors. But one thing they have not answered – the rest, either – what do you say to the Catalan officials who are not independentists and who have to work all day as if they were in a Republican Left headquarters? What do you tell the Mossos d'ésquadra that they received orders that contradict those of the police? What do you say to the Mossos d'ésquadra who were injured on December 21 while you encouraged the CDRs to be tightened up, and said that something so serious had not happened either? Just about forty injured moves, nothing serious. What do you tell those officials? What do you say to those who are working in a public service and have to go down at twelve to make ideological unemployment because it is not pointed out in their place? What do you tell those officials? Or does it not exist for you? Is there no citizen in your imaginary republic who is not independent and is a civil servant? For I will tell you one thing: neither the streets are yours, nor the institutions are yours, nor the officials are yours, nor Catalonia is yours; Catalonia is of all...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.162.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.163.0	...the streets are everyone's and the officials have to have peace of mind to work, to pay them what they owe, to give them the necessary means...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.164.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.165.0	...to do their job and stop them putting between the sword and the wall for that processist obsession that is what... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance Mr Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.167.0	Thank you, President. Well, President Torra, you go here and get the feeling that when there are vague solutions. You're a fire-prevention fan. It's about the waves not arriving here, it's about the bombers not cremating here before Parliament anything, it's about not arriving at this extreme point. He can't get any more out of, when there's a vacancy, he's already summoned and we have the conflict over the table, and then they solve it. What's less than fixing it? It's about preventing, not turning off the fire when we've got him here. We already know that the government bench is nervous when we talk about retail. I can hear it. Some are heresies of your past. It's absolutely normal. But to say that we do a job when here we have clear requests for public servers and also a lot of people on the street seem totally out of place. Here the people who organize this are the ones who say what day they go or don't go to the commissions. Here the people who organize each other are the ones who don't care who's talking about the real problems of the people, as they're doing today. Defending public workers is not a game, it's the best way to defend public services. And I wanted to tell you that too, President. You're always talking about the tax deficit. So let's get into his debate, and I'm talking about taxation; it's an important issue for everyone and it affects a lot of people. Do you know how you'd be more resourceful? With a tax reform here in Catalonia, I'm paying those who have the most resources for all folds. That's also taxed, president, and you don't want to do that, he doesn't care. I guess playing seconds that, then, isn't as good as playing with others. Now we have just heard from a report by the Workers' Commissions that the fiscal pressure is 5.4 points per metjana, in Catalonia, of the European mitjana; 5.4 points per margin, President. Here's the margin, and you don't want to see it. He was also commenting on the Republican Left spokesman's view of the state's premise. Of course, I don't share it, and I'll donate my motius so I don't share it. I'll give you a short rest from what the government's done in the past few months. It's all just one of us saw the Sanchez government as it approved not far from here an increment decree remunerated for 2 million public workers, which could reach and many places has reached 2.75_per_cent. And that was done by Minister Batet, whom Counselor Puignero accused many times of not having enough will with you. The minister also pushed for an agreement on mobility, the extension of parental leave and much more agreement with the unions. This is the way, President, the way of agreement. That's the way, Counselor Puignero. I understand that the agreement can be complicated by a government that is difficult to agree between themselves, but I intend to do so outside. Moreover, this past week we have seen how the government of Pedro Sánchez presented assumptions with strong investments in Catalonia that could contribute to economic recovery. And we've also seen social measures that bring this recovery to the city and citizens who have suffered the most. It is undeniable that this assumption presupposes a change of tendency that Catalonia cannot afford to lose. And you said there was an increase in the defence budget. I'll do another reading of what's on the increase, too. Pension expenditure increases by 6.2_per_cent, absolves the major xifra of history. All pensions will increase a minimum of 1,6_per_cent, and the minimum and non-contributory, a 3_per_cent. The minimum wage is increased by 22_per_cent. Parents will have eight weeks of parental leave in front of the current five. I'm recovering the 50-year-old major grant. Twenty million more for fighting gender-based violence. Dependency expenditure increases by 59_per_cent; never before had so many resources been allocated to dependency. In the field of scholarships, which we do not carry so well here, the parties increase by 10_per_cent, and the coverage of textbooks is doubled from 50 to 100_million euros. President, you said, and I quote a few more textual words, that in drafting the premise the priority line will revolve around social policies in educational, health and social services to preserve the most vulnerable collectivities. If these words are good for a presumption in Catalonia, why are they not good for a presumption in the State that benefits Catalonia? How can I deny support for assumptions that have been elaborated exactly with the same criteria? – exactly with the same criteria. The resources needed to do so through the State's presupposition are at its disposal. You'll give up the best of Catalan life, won't you? Think well, not for you, but for all those people who require these benefits and who you have the duty to defend. He's the president of everyone, and we hope he's on the rise too at this time. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.168.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.169.0	Yes, thank you, President. President..., and I will also address Mr Sabrià, because he has asked us about assumptions, you say that you have a proposition of assumptions that is social and that we have made some meetings and that you are supposed to have shown us how social these assumptions are, right? So I'll just give you three examples where I'll show you how social they are, right? The first example, places of public residences; zero, no place in public residences. We are talking about that in Catalonia there are twenty thousand people who are waiting for a place for a public residence, and you make such a social premise that it does not contemplate the creation of a single place of public residence. And, if they want, we contrast it with the general assumptions of the State, that what they are predicting is an increase of more than 60_per_cent in the matter of dependency. That's the difference between social and social. Now set the second example for you. Presuppost for minors not accompanied. You intend to leave exactly the same premise in the follow-up of unaccompanied minors, minors who know that many of them are sleeping on the streets of Catalonia. Well, you pretend to leave the presupposition exactly like the one we have so far. And the third example, housing. I've said it before, we're leading the denunciations all over the state. And what is the great game that you contemplate for all the people who, moreover, by law, by 24/2015, have an obligation to pay when a denunciation is produced? Eight million euros for all of Catalonia. That's all social that's his assumptions. If this is social, then let God come down and see it; because for us this is not social. And they also commented that they were liberals talking about tax reform. So, so far, all we have is that you are not willing to touch the IRPF, that of everything you could recaptivate from our proposal that we did from inheritance tax you propose to recaptivate a 10_per_cent, from everything you could recaptivate with successions. So... we're talking about a tax reform, plus, which would only affect the 2_per_cent of all Catalonia – 2_per_cent–, it wouldn't touch anything in middle classes, it wouldn't affect absolutely the popular classes and workers of Catalonia. We're talking about pushing taxes to the 2-percent of Catalonia you have, and you're not available. So, if that's his concept of social assumptions, of redistributing wealth, and of reversing detail, it's not ours; it's that easy. Why, if there are no tickets, how are they going to make social assumptions? You're a dungeon! And, President, you were talking to me about the tax deficit, and I'm telling you, of course, there's a tax deficit! Let us join in calling for a reform of the financial system. If that's where he'll always find us, we'll always go and complain about it. And also the creation of a proper story, of course, that you don't just have to recap, that you can also impose. Because we don't want to see the possible amnesties anymore, as Montoro did in his time for the richest. Of course I do. We want a history and we want a reform of the financial system, but we also want a tax reform. Because they say: "No, the fiscal pressure in Catalonia is very high. Do you know who has the very high fiscal pressure in Catalonia? Returns of thirty_ thousand euros, not the rics or the rics, the people who charge thirty_ thousand euros in the year! These are the ones who are really pulling the country forward. Please! I, of course... The general assumptions of the State... I have already put it only the comparison of dependence: while the general assumptions of the State propose an increase of 60_per_cent for dependence, in Catalonia it is not intended to create a place of residence! Habitat: while there it is proposed an increase of 40_per_cent for social housing, you are talking about 8_million euros for all of Catalonia, when we lead the flow of denunciations throughout the State! I understand that the exceptional situation in Catalonia is alarming, it's brutal, we have to end this repression. Now, we're working on the recovery of civil and political rights, and we're also working on the recovery of social rights. Because after a decade of austerity and detail what we can't afford are continuous assumptions. And they're continued because they don't want to approve of them, nor do they want to make a tax reform. Then where will the money come from? « Fight against tax fraud. Very well; but we are still realists: we know that the fight against tax fraud does not have an immediate effect. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, it is our proposal, of course, but we are aware that only with the fight against tax fraud, which brings more time to recapitulate, will not be immediately. So we're still realists. Hope and realism: these are the two axes we need. And I also want to make one thing clear: Mr. Pedro Sánchez is absolutely indifferent to me, it's not even my party. I don't want to pass some assumptions for Pedro Sánchez, I'd just miss it! If I defend the general assumptions of the State it is because they are objectively good for Catalonia. And because I'm going to say one more thing. I don't like the speeches of por, but I also want to make a realistic speech; or go on, between Mr. Pedro Sánchez and the reactionary tripartite of Catalonia, which is a brutal threat in national terms, in social terms and in terms of women's rights, it's not..., go on, for me the comparison is that it's nonexistent, I mean, it's that there's no color. Therefore, if you are incapable, you do not know how to face the challenge or your current divergence of interests prevents you from doing so, you should be coherent and listen to Catalonia. Our society, I said before, goes way ahead of the parties and the governments, and it's good to waste time and sea. Because more of you don't just do social measures, but when others propose them every time they can block them. It has already passed us with that it is destined, from the nine constructions, the 30_per_cent to social habitation; it will be complicated to pull it forward in Barcelona, and now what we propose is that it be extended to all Catalonia, and we are also seeing the subject of the dentist for the people who have less money. Therefore, the Generalitat would do well to listen, to learn, to take note of people and institutions, of the gatherings that are carrying out social policies for the benefit of the people. It's not tanquin, it's not winging, it's still brave, it's listening; we talk, we seek consensus, because Catalonia deserves it. It's worth it and it's worth it for them to rule. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.170.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of the Deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.171.0	President, of your response, we will leave this appearance – as you have said – with the view that we will not have any profound resolution, in fact, or at least, in relation to the situation in the public sector, and in principle the conditions of the workers and the workers most precarious and precarious in the public sector. We were pleased, indeed, with the very few concrete proposals and proposals that could be transformed, but there were not those that were made in their appearance. Miri, with all due respect, you were asking a group about whether or not you were visiting a CAP. Visiting a CAP is a minimum condition. It's a lot different to visiting a CAP that went on a visit to a CAP, the view is certainly different, it's a lot different to visiting a twelve-minute visit than going on a visit and having twelve minutes. But we will not make politics simple by placing it between who goes to the CAP and who does not go to the CAP, who goes to visit and who goes to get medical attention. We think that the determinant above all is that they are making effective policies because they are not keeping the situation we have in public health. And you started giving a response to some valuable data. Beyond what these data can say, we have to assume that we have a very difficult problem with public health in Catalonia. If we just stick to the given, we won't have effective policies to find the solution. He wanted to move his government like a government of the pact. Mirin, for us the problem is not in the pact, it is in itself in the pact we find right or in the pact we find renunciations. And what we're seeing so far is that in the agreements that you want to reach with the Spanish State, there's no more right-wing, earlier on: last week we had seven detainees, and at the normal rate, what's going to be a meeting with the political leaders of those arrests. But not in the same pacts that you come to give solutions to the reality of the public sector. It will sound strange that since the Subgroup of the CUP we are going to evaluate the general assumptions of the State, among other things because obviously we have called the groups that have representation at the Spanish Congress of Catalonia that do not participate. But, mirin, objective questions, social expenditure: the 2018 People's Party was a 16.2 and the next one is a 16.7; they are superior but each will bring their conclusions, because we are a tired little bit tired and tired of this permanent discourse of "the most social budgets of history, one, and the other, "the most social assumptions of history, tired and tired. And that's no use for nothing, for a lot of it's repeated. What we need to have in the table is concrete measures. And the answer that you gave us, President, about the suspicious and nullified laws: what is being done. What you are doing is expressly giving up what is approved here in this Parliament on July 4, 2018. They have not yet recovered the twelve suspense laws, concrete and effective measures, and have not done any concrete action in relation to the nullified laws. So what they're doing is an important step backwards. And lastly, you say: "I also want a strong social sector, I want a strong public sector – your words. So it's up to you and your government, concrete policies. So, it's not that you want to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.172.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.173.0	...but you want to do it and your government wants to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.174.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.175.0	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, Mr Torra, I am a member of the Parliament of Catalonia, and to a great deal of honor; but I have come here to exercise parliamentarianism, which is my vocation, not to plead with the fugitive from Waterloo. Because it is you who carry this Parliament on 6 and 7 September, who humiliate this Parliament by transferring all the decisions to Waterloo, who humiliates the figure of the Presidency of the Generalitat by publicly recognizing a ‘ Waterloo Command' is you. As long as I continue to command Waterloo, the Catalan institutions, including this Parliament, will be kidnapped by you. And you have, I insist, the opportunity to rescue them by cutting them with Waterloo. You know it perfectly, I insist, you know it. But, well, before you asked me this question, Mr Torra, well, you have lowered your voice and become utopian-romantic. And he said: "Do you imagine a Catalonia where we would have all the resources, where we could freely legislate, love would reign, you and I would merge into a nice embrace...? Well, yes, I imagined a Catalonia in which you had unlimited power, omnimode, and it's creepy. I have imagined it trampling on the rights of half the Catalans, stigmatizing the dissenting, imposing a vision of the exclusive and unique culture, and worst of all: I have imagined camping on its widths to the CDRs adjusting accounts with those we dare, in recent years, to oppose their designs. I've imagined it, and it's creepy. But even though it's creepy, it doesn't scare me at all. That's why I'm going to keep defending my principles and my values as long as it takes here, in institutions or wherever, until hell freezes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.176.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Sergi Sabrià's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.177.0	Thank you, President. Can I make an assessment of your intervention, Mrs. Arrimadas? It is that I have had the feeling that there was a lot of flow in the first intervention, and they apologize, but, of course, I think they wanted to come and talk about burnt streets and there wasn't, and therefore it was necessary to put more with the content of the agreements, with the situation of the Catalan officials..., and I didn't see it comfortable. In fact, I didn't see him comfortable until he was able to reach the national ranking of hot dogs: brutal – brutal. [[Rialles.]] Today I look, I look, I look, I look, I look, I look, I look, I look, I look, I look, I look, I look, I look, I look, I look, I look, I look, I look, I look, I I hope you're well done, we'd say, and you'd back off, huh? Because, come on, there's a report for the Ministry that says it's gone from 500 organisms to 375 organisms over the last five years; I hope it comes out, that I've been well picked up in the national ranking of chiringuitos. So I'll tell you. I look at myself this evening, and I tell them something. On the second part of his intervention, "hostile, we knew everything, didn't we? Innovating a little, looking for new things. Certainly, you are very much indulging in your Republican Left; we will treat you superbly and you will be able to speak with knowledge of the case. It always comes out; come one day. Actually, we treat everybody well, it's everybody's house, Esquerra. Therefore, listen, come, meet her (Applause), talk with..., and you can talk with knowledge. They'll never find my intervention that says, "Spain on our clothes; I've never said it, and it seems like a good way to explain what the State is doing to us, which is to take the money that they are from Catalans. But 155 did steal from us. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] Or is it very different, what does it do? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.178.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.179.0	It's a lot different to talk about Spain than talk about the state. Maybe you sound the same, but I'm centered on 155. 155 was a stealer: 130_millions, all destined for vulnerable collections; 110_millions lost in tanteig and retraction operations... If we add up the losses, the blockades, the arrears, up to 1,800_millions lost; 1,800_millions lost for the trio of 155: for the PP, for Ciutadans, for the PSOE. That is yes, with time to renew the concerts of the Opus schools, with time to award contracts to Indra – Indra, yes, the ones of the Punic. To the socialists, because it seems to me that they are the only ones in the trio who could hear it, what I would say to them is that if you consider yourselves to be functioning what you have to do is compromise 'out here to never make another 155, because it affects all Catalans, but also, and especially, you will work them. To the companions of the commons..., they had much decided, apparently, to come and say: « The government does not rule. Hostile, all right. [[Rialles.]] But in the end – in the end – we are getting away with it... they come, they say, in a different situation when this debate is being raised, but it would be good to say at some point that the agreement with public office is the most important agreement that has been reached in the next eight years. To have commitments that would reduce the temporality to 8_per_cent, which is what I said– not that there is a temporality today, but that the commitments made must allow to reach those compromises that always called for the unions, which is 8_per_cent–, are historical responses. That there's a 2025 plate on Bombers that lets you put them up to date. That the presupposition of 2019 is another time – another time – the most social presupposition of history and we will try to get it back to 2020. They can make you see that they don't reverse the flaps, but they reverse the flaps. I'm making better proposals, making us. Now, when we talk about dependence, so, yes, the state assumption increases in dependence, yes. It has been fifteen years – fifteen years – that they do not fulfill their commitments to Catalonia for what it does to dependence. So, we can talk about dependencies, huh? But let us not forget that the State has not fulfilled its commitments to the Law of Dependency for 15 years. And we can talk, therefore, about places, but we can't forget about children's homes. What was not so important, and what we did together, was to provide the country with children and reach commitments with all the gatherings to cover it together. So now that this is back to the premise is very important. So, listen, we're delighted to continue working, that you don't have enough meetings, to make it fifteen, divide and what you need and try to get to a point in common. But it's also up to me to explain everything that these assumptions are good about and that the starting point is excellent so that we can get this country to have the assumption that it's worth it. And, without stretching out, we've talked a lot today, I don't know if enough, but some of us have tried to talk about public servants. But it is also true that in this situation of public services we have, as in so many things, difficulties, and what they do in the march of the Spanish State is difficult. Why? Because he doesn't offer us any guarantee; because he didn't offer us any guarantee when he applied 155; because it's a state that doesn't offer us any guarantee when he ignores his own Constitutional Court when he decides that it's the Generality that has to manage the support scholarships for the study, and it's not complete. And you don't remember that, Mr. Gibert, do you? When you're talking about seedlings. And it would be important, because that's easy. You take note of what the Constitutional Court says and the issue resolved. When I include 80_million euros per year for ACS on the bill of the light, despite the judgment of its own Constitutional Court against the compensation of the Castor. It must be very illustrative or very cynical to believe even in the guarantees offered to us by this Spanish State, which offers us its Constitutional Court; very illustrative or very cynical to believe that this Constitutional Court will give you some type of emperor, some type of cover, nor the salvation of our public servants, nor such alone on our civil and political rights. If anyone in this chamber wants to help secure public services in Catalonia, what needs to be done is to debate the assumptions of the Government of the Generality, because only we can give response to the needs of the citizenry, with difficulty and with resources, sure, sure, sure, sure much migrated. But the best we can do if what we want is broad consensus, if what we want to talk about is 80_per_cent is sister and, among all, build assumptions that give answer – that give answer – to the needs of the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.180.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.181.0	Well, good day to you again. So, well, we've seen this second comeback as Mrs Arrimadas has taken another time to make any proposal, any comment on the government's action, bearing in mind that they called for President Torra's appearance. So, it's a bit of a lack of coherence. The object of the appearance was to see the relationship..., with the quality of the public services, which was the action of government – we have been explaining it. Also, Congressman Gibert, well, I've seen it, haven't I? The support you've given the Cunillera. I..., tell him that, in the event that one day a Member of the PSC, a Mayor of the PSC was detained in the way they did, he would not withdraw them, to the Members of another parliamentary group, who had seized and left; he would not withdraw them and surprise me. I'm very sorry about this position on the part of the PSC. I also found missing... President Torra made it..., asked him for a stand against Open Arms. He denied it, he didn't say king. We're a few groups from the chamber that we're in favor of, huh? Congressman Wagensberg, of the action of President Sánchez..., after some kind of action in relation to the crisis of the Open Arms and I see that you did not mention it either. But, as President Torra said, three are the key to the return of government action: social pact, recovery of social rights and not fuel conflict. You can tell a lot of lies or maybe you can make criticisms, but you're not turning into reality. When we say that there has been this pact between the unions to reduce the precariousness, the temporality to the public administrations of an 8_per_cent, so how does it convert this, how does it apply? So the first one the government has done is to approve the public offer of employment. If the public offer of employment is not approved, it cannot reduce the temporality. So, facts and words. When Mrs Albiach refers to the assumptions, we have said that our top priority is to work on these assumptions of the Generality. You, legitimately, make your contributions, your criticisms. And, as Congressman Sabria told him, work and seek consensus. But I would not like to finish today's appearance, and I repeat, to which we voted in favour, without recalling these agreements in the matter of public office. Two agreements in relation to the selection of staff involved; the agreement for the perception of 100_percent of wages in the event of temporary incapacity; the salary increase for 2018, which amounts to 1,95; and the 8 to generate a salary increase agreement for 2019 with a 2,75. All these aspects... For example, the Public Service Negotiating Bureau met the working group to follow up on the fourth agreement signed on 11 December. All these questions have been mentioned by President Torra. The Interior Department is also negotiating, with the trade union representatives of the Bombers Cos, a proposal on the working conditions of the functional bombers. They didn't mention it either. The main objective is that the Bomber Cos, the year 2022, had a thousand effect, nor was it referenced. Reference has also been made, as in the case of government, to the creation of these 250 seats, 216 corporal seats, 98 sergeant seats, 100 officer seats, 5 subinspector seats and 7 inspector seats. Government action. And tomorrow the decree will be approved. In relation to the Mossos d'Esquadra, they have also reached agreements to start negotiations with trade union representatives who have arrived at fifteen demands in their working conditions. And, in this context, the Interior Department is already negotiating. More government action. When they also refer to the subject of teacher education, this year the teacher system counts with 7,000 more teachers than 2016 and the current staff, 71,800 teachers and teachers. Four hundred and twenty-six teachers have been enrolled in the next three courses to improve inclusive education, nor have they referred to it. Therefore, all these are the measures that President Torra, in his appearance, has quoted. That parliamentary opposition groups already see that many times it is easy to oppose, but I think that the most important thing is to make a constructive opposition and sometimes it is missing. If you can make criticisms, you can make comments, suggestions of government action, this measure, this action could be directed that way. But many times what there is is not just criticism but lack of arguments because it does not come to value government action. Therefore, from this point of view, and gathering the interventions of the Sabria deputy and the Albiach deputy, for us the most important are the assumptions of the Generality. We are used many times to talking about assumptions, but no one goes into assessing what was the impact of a presumption and its execution, that here many times there has also been a very important bias between the approval of a presumption and its actual execution. For example, on the subject of university, in the last few years we have seen a lot. And, therefore, we, as a parliamentary group, will work together with the government, President Torra, to achieve these assumptions, to continue advancing with this social pact in which there is no social conflict. And whatever vagueness or controversy there is, first of all, from respect for the legitimate right of speech, and, above all, do not deny the action of government. Because government action is there and, as we have seen today, there are different governance actions on the part of the different councils that try – all the context of a chronic fiscal deficit – to improve the quality of life of citizens, to improve the quality of public services. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.182.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate ends here. We now suspend the session until three-quarters of the late four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.183.0	Good afternoon, let's resume the session. [[Asking the Government about the state of public education]] [[300-00066/12]] The next item is the question to the Government on the state of public education, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. The honourable Member Esther Niubó explains the question. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.184.0	Well, thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, good afternoon to everyone, deputies and deputies. He made more than seven months of his appointment, counselor, and we thought it appropriate, through this inquiry, to do a little balance of the situation of public education in Catalonia and to go back to what his mandate has given him. We have told you, sometimes, quite often, that we value positively the change of speech that we have understood since the beginning of your department. That, of course, we celebrate that you have recovered the name of "Departement d'Education"; a change of speech respects your predecessors of Convergence and current members of Government. Now, counselor, you still, today, have not been able to go from word to word, because you couldn't, because you didn't want to, because they didn't leave it... And there's nothing in the land of fact, except this change in the name of the department, that the distinguishment of the policies that Irene Rigau could do at the time. And I know it's hard to say it, but it seems to me that I don't commit any injustice, so good that I don't have to say it, but until today, we've only seen the change in its words. And it makes us sad that you ended your mandate without having completed most of your promises or announcements; and I will look at them again. First of all, and perhaps the hardest, more than a year after the government passed, October 2017, the most well-known decree as the "inclusive school decree, you have publicly acknowledged that you are not applying the decree. In this we must recognize the sincerity. And counselor, your government doesn't guarantee inclusive school, it can guarantee a few minimums of student care with specific educational needs, but, in a good part of the cases, insufficient attention, because inclusive school went much further than having a few hours of vetting in the week. And, as Professor Calderón said, this week, in an interview, not even the mere presence of students with specific educational needs in an ordinary school converts it, automatically, into an inclusive school. And there's a paradigm shift that went much further, that supposes to move from meeting the most urgent needs to an inclusive system that actually gives response to the totality of challenges, but it's that we're very far away from it. We're a long way from the model that draws the same, inclusive decree. And it's obvious that, for this reason, more resources are needed, more professional skills are needed, more support is provided, more support is provided, more support is provided, more support is provided, more support is provided, more support is provided, more support is provided, more education is provided, more education is provided, more education is provided, more education is provided, more education is provided, more training is provided. And as they rely to a great extent on resources, you can tell me that you still have no presuppositions. But it's that this course, as I once gave it, began even worse than last year, than the course passed in this land. Where the past course had begun, it had struggled to get a more supportive person, to give attention to a concrete student – and could set examples of municipalities and centres – this course began without that person. Centers of maximum complexity, such as the Consell de Cent Institute of Barcelona – which, moreover, is the only bilingual institute in sign language, for deaf signers from all of Catalonia – have passed this course of having five professionals of support to hold three. And that's retailing in inclusive school. Honestly, we don't understand. And, therefore, I don't know if they can recognize that they passed a decree, without sufficient resources to pull it forward, or they don't see it clearly. And, therefore, I would appreciate it if you could specify in your reply which actions you intend to take to ensure inclusive school and to presuppositionally deploy this decree. On the other hand, the zero-three educational stage – which we have said many times that it is the most impact on the reversal of inequalities, on the educational success in a future – is still abandoned by the Government of the Generality, which has exclusive competence. And there are already six courses that we are the same. You have publicly undertaken to recover this government's co-responsibility in financing for your own course. But the xifra that has been made public, containing the own assumptions, would be clearly insufficient: 20_million euros. Caldria, as a minimum, quadruple this xifra to ensure the support of the children's lars, and even more so if there was no participation of the provincial deputies. Then I'll talk about it, right away. And if we agree that the government has to return to the 1,600, 1,800_euro financing module, per plaza and year, which actually represents one_third of the cost of the plaza, it will convince me that the xifra that you are planting is a prey of hair, that it does not allow to secure the support of children's lars, nor, obviously, nor, again, to return the debt pending the gatherings. And I want to remind him that we have spent a few years in which one_third..., with what was financed this cost by families, joints and governments, in equal parts – for thirds – to a scene in which families and joints cost more than 80_percent of this cost of the square. And it seems to me that this is unsustainable. Because that's what made families, above all lower backs, have to give up schooling for their children. And this has caused them to lose educational opportunities, to these children, and to work and training opportunities to these parents; precisely, those collectivities that could have benefited most from these opportunities. I, therefore, seem to me that, until here we can get there. And that's why we ask him to be mogi, to seek resources, and that's why it seems to me that a problem has also been added to him, which is that the deputies, which are controlled by their members of the government, have not included any departure for the financing of the municipal schools, in view of the proper exercise. I, Counselor, suppose you are aware that, with 20_million euros, therefore, there is no agreement possible. And, therefore, I would ask you if you could clarify, here, what will be the participation of the deputies in this financing, if there will be any, in the face of the proper course, or the proper exercise. Thirdly, we wanted to talk about school segregation. Catalonia is among the two countries with the most school segregation in Europe. According to OECD data, today the social origin in Catalonia weighs more on the school results than it did in 2003. And, as you know, this is a key indicator that shows the lack of fairness of the education system. Other data also indicate: the correlation, very high, between early school leaving and low-resourced family students; or, without going further, one year ago we knew of a study by the Autonomous University, very worrying, which indicated that the school children's frailties doubled that of the natives and, finally, warned of "racialization, between comets, intolerable, of school outcomes. And, therefore, we have levels of school segregation that exceed levels of urban segregation of certain municipalities, of certain barrels. We all know schools and institutes stigmatized, very complex, that in each pre-registration process they have a low demand problem, which, moreover, have many difficulties to equip their staff with. And that's why we want to ask him what he's planning to do to equip the seedlings of these high-complexity centers, if he's planning to provide more resources and help these centers. Let them, too, in the new premise we hope that the share of aid for the purchase of books of text, material; above all of these centres with a socio-economic context is increased. And he wanted to give him a xifra: the 2010-2011 course, the government allocated 12_million euros, three times as much as it was at these times. And more data– I also think they're pretty clear–: 80 percent of foreign students go to public school. And just last week we knew a very well done study, by Pau Rodríguez, Arturo Puente and Victòria Oliveras, which concluded that two_of_each_three public schools in Barcelona have more than twice as many immigrants as the closest concertee. And that's not what I'm saying, I don't generally admit this student profile, nor do I say that segregation is produced only between public and concerted schools. It is obvious that we find abyssal differences between public schools of the same barri or municipality. Now, we are sending him the urgent need to improve the co-responsibility of all the centers that receive public funding, regardless of their ownership. And, therefore, I think we have to admit that there is a structural problem, a problem of segregation, that we have to tackle in order to improve in fairness. And, therefore, you, as the educational authority in Catalonia, are obliged to act. And that went far beyond the signature of a pact. The pact that drives the syndic is a good pact, we will raise it, but it would be a toast to the sun if you don't accompany yourself with resources, and if we don't want it to pass like the inclusive school decree, which is a good text, but without resources it remains in everything else. We must give this pact against segregation presuppositionally, and we must also take other bold decisions. You should pass a decree, a new decree of admission. You said you'd do it. And we would like to see here, for example, the deletion of this complementary criterion produced in the case of employers, in which the student who had former family members educated in a centre had an additional score, because it seems to me that this is the only one who contributes to the reproduction of inequalities, which favours a certain social concentration, and, moreover, harms interclassism. It also seems important to limit enrolment outside of alumni with special educational needs to socially disadvantaged centres, or expansions, when in other centres there are vacancies, although we know that popular mass decisions can be made. And this new decree should, too, require that it be guaranteed that both public and private concerted centres publish in the pre-registration period and report on the regime and the approval of quotas, above all its voluntary character and not associated with schooling. And we'd like to ask you if you incorporate these points into the new decree, and if we're looking at the next course. And finally, counselor, we ask for determination, beyond the signature of this pact that drives with the syndicate, and what concrete measures you intend to take to reduce this segregation. We know that the concerted schools assume the half of the foreign alumni that would correspond to them, and we want to ask you, in this concrete point, what you intend to do. Its Director General of Educational Policies said that they would start a non-linear financing system, where the economic reality of the environment would influence the volume of the concert. We wanted to ask him, what's wrong, right? If it's just on the ground of the words. And, therefore, it would be very important for you to take this step. Here he would have us at his side, and tell him that today, on this line, they also keep the differences in schedules between public and concerted centres. You said you wouldn't give up recovering the six-hour period, and we also want to ask you if we're going to see it in the next class, or if, at the moment, you do give up. And, therefore, counselor, I hope that I can deny in my own exercise, we would rejoice; but at the moment, we are talking about fetuses. Therefore, I will leave for the second time other considerations relating to mid-day space, vocational training or teacher training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.185.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the counselor has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.186.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsel, Member, Members and Members, you have done very well, of all the things that we have said we will do, you have not mentioned what we have already done, but it obviously forms part of parliamentary dialectics, and you have not mentioned, basically, three, on which, therefore, we have already done things, and we have to do many more. Primera, for inclusive school. You say: "Do they have the will to apply the decree? Of course we have the will to apply the decree. « Do they have the resources to implement the decree? In the proper assumptions we will have the resources to start applying the decree. The decree was approved at a time when it had not been foreseen, when it was approved, that the assumptions would be extended. Therefore, the decree was approved thinking that, in the proper assumptions, there would be the necessary parties to start applying it. There is a presuppositional prorogation, but in the proper presuppositions, in which we already have locked inside in the government, there are already parties to begin to pose. Encany, while maintaining the extension, has done some actions respect the inclusive school, as a result of a restructuring of its own resources, of the extended assumptions. In this course, 41 units of CIAE and intensive support for inclusive schooling have been increased, in public centres, and 10 units in concerted centres. Seven AIS units have been created, integral classrooms, in public centres, and two in concerted centres, with special education teachers, special primary education educators, psychopedagogs and special secondary education educators. And for the very course, in the assumption that we have closed, if it does not increase in the course of negotiations with parliamentary groups, such as the closed, we have 68 new units of CIAE to the public, 24 to the concerted, 6 new AIS, 4 specific formatary itineraries, and the increase of resources of teachers of hearing and language for the CREDA, techniques of social integration, psychopedagogics and techniques of professional training for the ICE, in a conjunction of three hundred and nine dedicated to the initial application of the inclusive school decree. That's what we have. Do we want to apply the decree? Yeah. Do we have the current resources to do this? With those of us we have made an internal reform that allows us to do something. And under the proper assumptions, we can start working there. And you're right, that's to say, inclusive school isn't done with a decree, it's done with classroom work, with more professional and specialized professionals. The zero-three. You've made various questions around zero-three. I'll answer it, won't I? , a concern that has moved us and that is obvious: the deputies have not presupposed the game, which does not mean that with the deputies we are not working the application of a quantity on the part of each deputy in the collaboration of the financing. In these moments we are about to conclude an agreement with the Association of Municipalities and the Federation of Municipalities on the return of the quantities that in its moment the department did not pass to the meetings, we are about to close, and we are working a_second agreement, also written – also written, also written – with the congresses. Just as initially it was predicted that the agreement was written by the Department of Education, municipal councils and entities, at these times it is working on an agreement with municipal authorities that has a long term and a shorter agreement with the parliaments. And the will of this department too – and so we let the government of the state know – is that the government of the state, that at the time it brought a large amount of money and that it stopped doing it, I did it again, because President Sánchez explained it in public some time, didn't he? Sometime. And, therefore, if the Government of the State returns to what it had purchased in its time, it will still have more money than it will have with the assumption of the Government of the Generality, the contributions made by the deputies and this convenient carried over in time with the municipalist entities. School segregation. School segregation concerns us, it obviously exists, and it has very different fronts of action. There's the agreement the syndic proposed, that we too will join, and that marks some lines of action. There are agreements that we are developing together, with the increase of municipal school offices, with the increase of mixed school planning tables with joint meetings, with the increase of entourage plans and with this work with joint responsibility in the school process, which is one of the keys to segregation. In this process of schooling, we now publish a first amendment of the decree, but we work, as you know, for a decree for the coming year. This decree for the coming year contains - it contains - some of the elements that you have said; it contains the joint work with registration out of terms of special educational needs, of any type, so that the assumption of registration out of terms of special educational needs is done equitably between all the centers that have public foundations and that in no case – and in no case – increases, in those centers of maximum complexity, its complexity. And this has already been communicated to the various employers of the private school and is also working with the union world. And it also includes other aspects that you have mentioned, and some of those that you have already mentioned will no longer be included in the decree, which will take longer, but in the course rules, because the course rules allow us to already place some of these elements that you did not need to pass through the decree, as is now the advertising of all the public and private center shares on the web page of each of the centers, so that all families also know it, because families need to know it in its function as a trio of the center and we need to know it in our function to age because the schooling is free. And obviously, around some of these shares of public schools and private concerted schools, there is no application of the gratuity to ensure public funding for these schools. And this is an element that will appear in the rules of initiation of the course that you see, that will serve families to know the reality of the school in which their children are educated or want to be educated, and to us to exercise more and better our function of educational authority and, therefore, to age for the conditions of this free schooling. In this aspect there are also text books. At these times we are either closing or doing an analysis of five public and private schools in Catalonia that are still using text books; at five centres that do not use text books has been modified for the purchase of material, for the purchase of material that is not text-free, that happens also, and so that we see what reality today is in our educational system the use of text book or the use of alternative teaching material to the text book, to value also who have the willingness to intervene in an economic quantity we are talking about. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] But in any case, I suppose we can keep talking about it, but I assure you that the Decree of including it we want to complete, the zero-three will have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.187.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.188.0	... another round of funding from the Generality and we'll keep talking about it. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.189.0	Thank you, Counselor. Again, to make the reply, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.190.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, you were talking about the increase in efforts that you have made in inclusive, but you allow this, as you said before, so, I doubt that..., because you have produced detailed details precisely in inclusive, in centres of maximum complexity. And in any case, I'm glad you said to comply with the decree. So we'll see what kind of presupposition they have. For what it does in agreement with the Members of Parliament, of course, a timely agreement for a quantity of a year does not guarantee the sustainability of schools in Bressol or infants for a significant period of time. Welcome to the agreement with the municipalist entities, if up, but 20_million euros..., I don't think I'm moving forward if I say he won't agree, because it wouldn't be possible. And for what it does to the contributions of the State, you know that this contribution had been made by the Socialist Government with Zapatero, that the PP was the first to retaliate, and at these times, if assumptions of the State are made, if you also do not support it, there is an important match precisely to promote zero-three schooling, which – yes – goes directly to the assemblies – is also logical, given the experience. But among the things, the many things that he also announced on his day had also been the updating of the Decree of School Housekeepers, of the 96, which is even prior to the LEC, and that I think we agree with the need to update it. But it looks like they've dropped it or they're freezing the last thing out, and they have more time to do the participative process, that they get together enough to throw the pilot in and we'll see. But, of course, you accept that they have fallen on it but do not accept, do not take responsibility. And from my group we have an obligation to ask you who will be responsible before justice when contracts are made that contravene European law, if they are the AMPAs, if they are the regional councils. And I don't know if you're doing what it takes to be educational authority in Catalonia to protect the educational community and also preserve this middle space. And we won't discuss whether the best formula is a better decree or a law that shields this middle space, but we do ask it to act to ensure once and for all, so a middle space that goes far beyond the serving of food, that must be and is education, that forms part of the center education project, that must be of quality, and that means proper relationships that end with the massicacy that some women suffer, the preparation of professionals and also a decent work condition, and obviously a healthy diet and more than a space that is included, which is not now. And we ask you, therefore, to work with this objective. And, of course, also, as we have demanded in so many resolutions and motions approved in this Parliament, we ask you if you are committed to getting the fooder back to the institute, the fooder's service and the help also linked to this service to the secondary school. On the other hand, to professional training, we have also said very recently, we do not see enough effort to guarantee its gratuity, to extend the public offer as caldria, to reduce abandonment and improve graduation taxes, to improve the systems of advice, information, orientation, of what can be done, and also to deploy the law up to the end of 2015. And that doesn't cost money, counselor. We find that we lack much more celerity in the making of decisions that refer to the professional formation that are not being produced. For what it does to teacher training, which we believe is a priority, so donate tools, equip the teachers, above all in front of the enormous reptes: each time more complex, more heterogeneous classrooms. And here we see that the game has already decreased by almost 60_per_cent compared to 2010, but it is more with an addition: that last year they only executed a 30_per_cent of the game. So, of course, it gives you the feeling that you were left alone. And that's why we want to ask him if, with a view to strengthening language skills in a third language, especially speaking of English, he intends to strengthen teacher training in this third language, if changes are made in the initial education, because this is a demand of the teacher and the same education system. And for all this, counselor, we ask you for assumptions that allow you to overcome the situation of infra-financing in which public education is found in Catalonia; that you allow this inclusive school; that you guarantee the support of the educational stage that has the most impact on the reversal of inequalities, that it is zero-three; a decided and courageous strategy and not only against segregation, so with resources; the co-responsibility of all the centers that have public funding; an area of medium education, quality and inclusive; a bet for public vocational training, and the reversal of the details that the teachers have suffered. We are talking about a lot of resources, which without a progressive tax reform of sureness that will cost you to get, but believe 'although the educational community would not understand that we are taking advantage of the margin of improvement that would at least suppose the approval of the general premise of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.191.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, it's the counselor's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.192.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members of Parliament, for which the Ministry of Education has been very attentive to the petitions it has rejected; for example, to the large number of motions approved in joint meetings, and presented for the Socialist Group in that joint meeting, or for the CUP Group, or for the group of the commons, demanding that we have a duress and start a new process. There have been a lot of meetings, many of them with the Socialist Group's favourable vote, which we have been asked to do so. And now I have not just heard, that you are asking us here in Parliament the contrary of what you have asked of us in the assemblies, I have not just heard. Or perhaps so, because the assemblies are already in the electoral campaign and in the Parliament of the moment we are not there. But in any case, we have had cases where all of these assemblies and these municipal groups have asked for different AMPs and AFAs, and we are in this process – we are in this process; a process of a new debate, a process that went beyond what the original decree meant, a process that wants to hear the media as a complete educational space and a process that is already beginning to yield much fruit for what it does to consensus and agreement. You are right in one thing, which we have already said here: as this process will be longer, there is some temporary danger. We have already made known to all AMPAs that they have addressed themselves and to all the assemblies that have directed themselves that we will go out in defense of those teachers who are in the hands of AMPAs or assemblies and who are now operating in a direct way, to preserve them. And if it suits and if there is a concrete case that there is the danger that it is not preserved, while in that case we recover the competence of the same department of that school or of that householder and, therefore, we will ensure that the decision is taken by us and, therefore, by us. For what it does to teacher training, in the case of initial training we have already worked with the secretary general of universities and with universities and we have already made known to him that we do not like initial training, to what we see to be better than initial training. There's already been a proposal, we'll work harder. And for what it does to the continuous formation of the teacher we are carrying out a new plan, we are carrying out a new plan from a new perspective, and in the assumptions of the coming year there is already a considerable presuppositional game for the different formation of the teacher that must be there, both in evaluation by skills for secondary, baccalaureate and professional training, and in languages, and in work for centres with zero tolerance, so..., for all the different formation of the teacher that comes, that in the years to come has not been there. And in any case I would like to say that... Now we could be here discussing the issue that I see is the tennis game of this Ple, or frontal in some cases, or trench, to say it in a more traditional way ours, which is: I will now talk to you about the assumptions of the Generality, you talk about the assumptions of the State, I tell you that... Miri, who I know, the State has not invited us to talk about the assumptions of the State in the matter of education. If you invite me, I'll go and talk to you. I invite you to talk about the generality's assumptions in education. So the day you want, I'll explain it to you and we'll work together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.193.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Infrastructural questions to the Government]] [[300-00067/12]] The eighth point of the order of the day, the next, is the inquiry to the Government on the infrastructures, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. The question is made by Mr Marc Solsona. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.194.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors, counselors, counselors. Well, then the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia presents this question that goes on the subject of infrastructures. We are aware that in this space of inversion of infrastructure the Generality has little margin, and it is the State that can bet more or less on it to improve our careers, our lives, to make them safer, more sustainable, and also, naturally, more efficient. First of all, counselor, allow me, to congratulate you, and also Councillor Rull, who should be here with us today, and the Department of Territory in general, because according to you, for example, the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona, of the twenty-eighth key infrastructures for them in a report of the year 2006, only five are currently in operation. And it turns out that these five that are in operation are executed by the Government of Catalonia. So, here too, so aggravate the work that is being done. But today we will talk about the Government of the Spanish State, or the Spanish State in general, in the last few years. If I may, however, we will basically do so in order to make manifest that we are not talking about more inversion of infrastructure in Catalonia, which means that there is more. And many times, too many times, it remains in this: to talk, to talk and more to talk. And sometimes even the only means of acquiring a presuppositional compromise allows us to secure a bid, execution or liquidation, according to the political commitments so announced at times mediatically. In short– and you saw it daily–, too many times if you smoked. From our parliamentary group, we will say it again and again every time we go where we go, that in Catalonia, historically, the percentage of territorial reversal of the general assumptions of the State is very far from what Catalonia has in terms of population, which is 16 per cent, and still more far in terms of GDP, which is 19_per_cent; and I will no longer put more variables or exports or, for example, tourism. In all and every one of this historical series of the last twenty years, the territorial distribution of the real reversal of assumptions in Catalonia is neither 16 nor 19 – therefore, neither population nor GDP – but the average value is 12.9_per_cent. And we're starting to put magnitudes in these data. To put magnitudes to the derivative, just to calculate the difference between the expected reversal that would have been assumed in terms of population and the one that ends up being assumed, from the year 2013 we would be talking about 2,905_million euros. And if we calculated it based on this 19_per_cent, which would have been assumed, the difference is 5,369_million euros. So, important numbers. Counselor, if I say 32,243_million euros, I would be giving him the supposed reversal of the group of Promotion to Catalonia since the year 2001; but if sometimes I also say 7,431_million euros I would be giving him the reversal not executed or liquidated for the same concept of the previous xifra that I said before. But let's not go to 2001, let's go closer: if I tell you 3,262 million euros, this reversal is the assumed and unexecuted since 2010. So, what are we saying? What more than 3,000_million euros unable to be complete, beyond the pompositate to figure in some assumptions. Not to mention the third additional provision of the Statute, which is now unlocked, the year 2018, with a different calendar of 200_million euros per year. This morning it was seen, but to some, when we talk about fiscal deficit, they do not like to feel it either, and you can calculate different ways, because the Generalitat speaks of a fiscal deficit of more than €16,000_million, other institutions speak of €9,900_million or even some study of the Spanish government's fiscal balances can come to speak of €8,455_million. If we multiply any of these imports for the above-mentioned annuities, it would be scandalous. How scandalous it is that we have to applaud and give thanks for some presuppositionary understatements that do not solve the structural funding deficit that our country has, permanently and rightly claimed for the generation of propitious resources and of its own economy. So, counselor, I don't think we should let ourselves be fooled any more, and we're proposing... we're doing an exercise. If we do the exercise of adding the presupposition gap to the population or to GDP, which does not shrink or grow, as we have said, we add the presupposition and non-executed reversal gap to it that we find each year, and we add any of the tax-deficiency formulas that we have previously named, seen or heard the whole problem folded; they see where we come from and why the culprits of putting our system on the threshold, precisely, it is not the government of this country or this Parliament. Counselor, we need assumptions in Catalonia, we need to talk about our assumptions. This should be the key to this debate, and don't go to trailer of the Spanish chamber's presuppositional debate. But as things are as they are and not as we would like them to be, it is good to remember at this time that the role of the State, from the Spanish government to Catalonia, is running at the presuppositional level. Counselor, we understand that we do not have an effective argument generating confidence that allows us to state that the assumptions of the State will be neither good nor real respect for Catalonia. That's why we're interviewing him here today, because we want to go back and remember that we're in front of a state that doesn't meet its commitments to Catalonia. Now it is proposed and above a presuppost 2019 with a xifra of 1,635_million euros in investments in Catalonia. And you let'move a parenthesis, as did Councilman Rull: do you know how many of these 1,635_million euros of territorialised direct investment go, for example, to Lleida? Disit_millions of euros. So much for parenthesis, and that every thought too. Therefore, when you ask or ask for these fantastic assumptions of 1,635_million euros, of which 17 go to Lleida, you will understand that it generates not only doubts, but a certain indignation. But if we add one more example, that the road and rail infrastructure that was planned for the years 2005 and 2006 and that was already incomplete in its execution term, now they want to run for the next two years, when we are already 12 or 13 years late, they will understand that this is difficult to explain. And to let you know of other concrete examples that I will comment on, such as the game of presuppositional deception. For example, the A-2 between Pont de Molins and the Jonquera: the beginning of the work consists of the general assumptions of the State in the year 2000; 2012 they say it would be over by 2015; 2015, 2018; 2018, 2019, and summarizing, in sum, we already carry years and summarizing. Or another example, the A-26 between Figueres and Besalú: the beginning of the work, the year 2000; 2012 they said it would be over by 2014; 2015, 2017; 2019 by 2019, and we will bring back years and sum. Or the A-27, the tram between Valls and Montblanc, which says it's from the year 2009 the beginning of the work; 2012 was due to end in 2016; 2015 to 2019, 2019 says it will end in 2020, and we're already 11 years old and in addition. And all that without summarizing all the assumed and non-executing parties. Therefore, we understand that it cannot be. And yet some people don't understand the reason for the disaffection and the loss of confidence in a Spanish state that empirically proves that they don't respect us, and I'll say more: and I've lost us. Counselor, to end, while, counsel, the people of the Lands of Lleida, many every day we will continue to play the life of the A-2, we will continue to despair for the unfortunate reliability and quality of the train line Lleida-Manresa, we will remain helpless before the deaths of the N-240 and incomprehensiblely we will continue to pay a 7_percent more than the ticket of the Avant. As they can prove, it's all very normal. But because we have memory, we don't believe in anything. That is why we demand, counselor, the right to decide on investing, how to invest, how to manage and how to organize our roads and railways in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.195.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.196.0	Thank you, President. Mr Solsona, the honourable Members, the honourable Members, will advise..., first of all, Mr Solsona, thank you for the inquiry, which you have raised today in order to continue – to continue – effectively denouncing the hardships to which you have been subjected, to which we have seen the citizens of Catalonia, the undertakings in Catalonia, in all these years, with one and other governments in the State, the lack of compromises in completing what is repeatedly promised in the assumptions, which has sometimes been reflected in the assumptions but which have not been completed, the difference between what is supposed and actually what is supposed to be done in the resolution. You've done some brilliant numerical exercises, if I may, very understanding, of what this lack of compromise is. They know that this is one of the questions that is always raised; for us it is of great importance. It is not so much the promises, the announcements, sometimes grandiloquent, but the ones that say the liquidations. With the liquidations, with which the State actually invests in Catalonia, with the truth numbers that we know at the end of a few months, it is when you know what is the will of the Ministry of Development, of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, in short, of the General Administration of the State, of the State. Don't announce them, but the truth, the reality. As you said yourself, Mr Solsona, in which you have to see the infrastructures, unfortunately, historically, the general assumptions of the State have remained with a centralist view and characterized by a very limited reversal in Catalonia. There have been investments that have never been on the levels they are looking for, they have never been on the levels that are nearing us either by the people or by the economic ones, while in the rest of the State there have been investments where there is no need; and I would just like to remember girly phrases but rather understanding, from airports without planes, radials without cars or AVE stations without passengers. The historical deficit of the State's investments in Catalonia, together with the fiscal deficit– sometimes there are those who do not want us to talk about the deficit of the State's investments in Catalonia or the deficit of investments– are the two main concepts– you also refer to this historical hardship. Therefore, important deficiencies where activity and mobility is not a mere prediction in years of time, but a reality. Let me remind you that, despite the insistence of this Government, for years the Mediterranean Corridor has only been on the Ministry's plans when Europe has forced them to do so, to the shame of the State, it has only been on the Ministry's plans when Europe has forced them to do so. It did not matter the reality, the figures, the data, that the Mediterranean coast concentrated a percentage of the economic activity more than remarkable: they continued with the intention of prioritizing, for example, the Central Travesia, from which it was the Central Corridor, in accounts of the Mediterranean Corridor. In other words, far removed from reality, or perhaps what is worse, they want to transform reality by political motives, by mere ideology. Let's talk again about the state's pending debt in infrastructure, and, to do so, I'd like to say, focus it all on a triple failure; given that other times I have already listed it in this very Parliament or in other forums. In the first place, a set of non-realised performances, in infrastructures of general interest, those most necessary for social welfare and competitiveness: performances hanging on reels, performances hanging on high speed, performances hanging on the Mediterranean Corridor. I was relieved to read the list, but they are bloody examples, which are, in fact, very important territorial burdens. You also refer to the second major incompliment: accumulated debt. An accumulated debt of more than 3,800_million euros – little joke with this xifra – that the State has given since the year 2013 for the third additional provision. Let's remember: the third additional provision, which must be paid to the Generalitat in the form of a transfer for the import that supposes of the difference, precisely, between the one that invests the State and the pes de Catalunya in the GDP in the State. Indeed, only that of the year 2007 was settled. We are, therefore, trying to liquidate that of the year 2008; but in any case, in this project of assumptions of 2019 there is a heading of 200_million euros, on account of this second annuality. But we have 3,800 accumulations. So, we're very, very far away. The only year that's been settled was this 2007. And the third major failure, the third major failure group – very important, vital – that is the need to recover the economic contribution of the State Administration to the support of the public transport system in Catalonia: sustainable mobility. A very important part of sustainable mobility is, of course, the public transport system to recover the contribution that the State must make, based on which we pay through our taxes, to sustain this public transport system. All these incompliments – this triple incompliment – are translated into hard, hard for Catalans, and remain opportunities, remain competitiveness, also, to our economy, to our businesses. As Mr Solsona has rightly said, we have the example of different works, which are assumed in various exercises of the general assumptions of the State... – which have been assumed, I mentioned – and which are on the table, without execution. And I want to pose..., yes, I won't be, to set a concrete example, surely one of the bloodiest, that of rollover investments. It also forms part of public transport. Before we were talking about another xifra, that of the support of what is the functioning of the system, but the investments in rollers, which have been systematically incomplete, historically, the Plan of infrastructures of the moment when the transfer of rollers, those 4,000_million, was approved, and which should have already been executed, should have been completed by 2015. We're in 2018 and there's only been a 13_per_cent. Or the Platform for Priority Actions, that which was agreed with Minister Ana Pastor, the famous 306_millions, which should have already been executed, because it was 2014 and 2016, and have only been executed, so, approximately, a 12_percent of the projects granted. I couldn't be putting on the table this bloody example of lack of State compromises in investments in Catalonia. From the Government of Catalonia we want to put itself permanently and compromised in basic infrastructures for Catalans and for the economic development of our country: Corredor Mediterrani..., however, also connected to the Corredor Mediterrani, the railway accesses to the port of Barcelona, or to the airport of Prat. Accesses, for example, to the Prat airport which, therefore, are also bloody examples. While rail access to Barajas airport was awarded in 2007 and ended in 2011, just last year we saw the tunneller exit the tunnel to finish rail access to Prat airport. The first railway work since, practically, pre-democratic times. This is how we are – this is how we are – respecting the commitment of the State, with one and the other political colour to the Government of the State, in Catalonia. The same respects the railway accesses to the port of Barcelona, scandalous: a basic infrastructure for the economy of the State and for the export capacity of Catalonia, absolutely coerced by this lack of investments of the State in its railway accesses. You have made reference to it – and I will not extend it – around these accumulated amounts of presumptive investments versus liquidated investments. It's supposed to be a little, but it's less – it's supposed to be a little, but it's less. And we've had liquidation figures, the last few years..., in short, that show this lack of compromise: a 68_per_cent in 2013, a 66_per_cent in 2014, a 70_per_cent in 2015, a 56_per_cent in 2016, a 81_per_cent in 2017, but the xifra was very low. So every year there's been one thing or another that's prevented what's supposed to happen, that's a little bit, from the start, from running at the levels we need. It was only possible to have a xifra of execution, therefore, according to which it is a correspondent, or even higher than that which it is a correspondent, the year 2012, when it was executed works above the presupposition, for the completion of the works of the high-speed train to the French border. That this has been the only chapter that has completed and that has managed to push these liquidation percentages over the last two years. So – and I'm done – we need the generality's assumptions, but we can't help but complain about everything that's been going on for so many years, and that has to be looked at in the state's assumptions. Because he is a debt of the State to the citizens of Catalonia and to the enterprises, to the economy, to the support of the economy of Catalonia. We are very clear about our infrastructure policy. We want to prioritize and invest all available resources intelligently, driving actions where they are needed, where there is real demand or need to hold it, where we know there is an economic return, and with consensus, with the consent of the main actors, and with transparency. We're looking to solve people's problems with joint vision, country vision and seeking solutions to all Catalan infrastructure. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We want to work on solutions for mobility, housing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.197.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.198.0	...the environment, for the people and for our economy. Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.199.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the negationist attitudes that pose in peril the rights of women]] [[300-00068/12]] The next question is about the negationist attitudes that pose in peril the rights of women, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. Asks the honourable Member Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.200.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Members, councillors, councillors, members of the honourable people of Catalonia, well, today we present this question to the Government about the negationist attitudes that pose in peril the rights of women, because the ghost of the extreme right and the fascism returns to Europe, and, unfortunately, also to the world, as it did in the thirties. And I start with one question: do you know how many Members were in the Parliament of Catalonia in the first legislature of the contemporary Generality, the year 1932? I say to them: of the 85 seats that I had then this Parliament, there was no one, there was no Member. The presence of the women is reduced to the stenographers and the administrative ones, who were here– in fact, they were here secure– and that they take note of everything that is said in this hemisphere. Now we also have Parliament's workers, who are not sure, but they are right, but then, those Members... those women who were in Parliament, were only those who served us, those who worked for the Members of the House. The year 1980, in the first parliamentary term of democratic restoration, there were only 8 deputies, a 5_per_cent of the seats. Look at you, today, how many Members there are sitting in this Parliament: of 135 members, there are 59 Members, a 43_per_cent. It's obvious that we've advanced as long as the whole opposition party is headed for a woman, even though it's not yet, but it's headed for a woman. And, however, we have not yet reached the parity of gender equality, neither here nor outside; nor here, Parliament, nor the rest of society. Meanwhile, there are those who want us to return to the marginality of the year 80 or to the disappearance of 1932. While there is..., from political parties with social and governance responsibilities, to all sorts of gyragons and making up all sorts of excuses to whitewash the extreme right and avoid saying things for his name– like Vox is extreme right–, the presence of this counter ideology to democracy grew electorally to the media, and very badly, too, to the institutions. Those who read a bit of history will know that in the thirties, when there were no women in this Parliament, the totalitarian ideologies brought the world to the frail and to the absolute confrontation. A world in which testosterone brought society to war, confrontation and intolerance. Now, this perill again threatens us from different world-rights with projects led by alpha males, such as Trump, Bolsonaro, Orban, Salvini, or Abascal, who like to treat women as if they were object or minor of age, and who deny male violence, becoming denialists of horror, reducing violence against women to an anecdote that has a place at home, enclosing the women in private life, into that angel of the home who so well knew how to defend the Francoism. But this danger is not new, in Spain. It's not a rebound sea, since the extreme right, from Espanya, has never left. The nameless Spanish transition was neither peaceful nor clear. And now, the extreme right reappears from the arm of some groups of this Parliament, which, for example, is taking photographs with the extreme right to the demonstrations, or applauding with the ears every time that Vox filed complaints against our policies or against our government to be independent, and now showing us how the scarecrow that will come if they leave. Remember: "If you don't go, they'll come back. Now it is: "If you do not vote for the assumptions, they will also return. But the extreme right does not resonate – it says it does not resonate as a reaction to independence, the extreme right was already there – but above with pacts to govern, thanks to extreme right-wing tripartites, the first demands of which directly affect the rights of women. There is someone who wants to hide the male denial of the extreme right by accepting, at all events, the possibility of repealing laws protecting women or questioning inequality, and questioning the veracity of complaints of male rape. From 2009 until 2017, more than 1 million complaints of male violence were filed in Spain. Who does this, who questions the truth of these complaints, is questioning the rights and freedoms of women, returning to the thirties. Without a hand raised, but with the same anti-democratic intention: anti-democratic the totality. The bewitches don't raise their hands, they go dressed, they have ties, but they're the same, they're looking for the same. The extreme right to Spain is endowed with frankness. Preserving equality laws is now more necessary than ever. Mirin, think about this witness I saw on Twitter today, from a police station in Palma de Mallorca, from the Balearic Islands. Sonia Vives, this police officer, says: "No man dies with his underwear in his mouth or with his underwear strangled him, nor half-naked and raped in a well and between bushes. If a man dies like this, it's at the hands of another man. The problem is obvious. And while it's obvious, they kill us to be women and kill us men. It's not a question against men. More than 94 percent of the homicides registered in the Spanish State are committed by men. It is not a question of giving privileges to women to be women, but of protecting us so that we can follow women. The October passed, during the general policy debate of this Parliament, a resolution was adopted to push for a national pact against male violence, addressing different areas of this chakra: security, attention, teaching..., to work to end it, to end this chakra from this Parliament. Catalonia must pose, and set foot in the ascent of the extreme right which tempts against the freedom of people, especially women. But we also have to work together to curb the unstoppable rise of fascism in Europe. The mayor's European elections must involve a buffet of extreme right-wing parties, xenophobics, masculinists and Eurosceptics, but also those who want to whitewash them and who have gone or gone to European elections with neo-feixist parties, say Libertas, but do not seek freedom. In the European Parliament, we Catalans must show that we want to be part of a strong, solid, plural and democratic Europe. Jo, as the woman hidden year 78, deputy and independentist, would never have thought that 2019 should be proud to repeat the verses of Maria Mercè Marçal: "At random I thank three gifts: to have been born a woman, / from a lower class and born oppressed. / And the térbol atzur to be three times rebellious. It will take time to be rebellious as ever, and it is that the struggle for freedom and equality of women should be a heritage of humanity, a human right, and this Parliament should recognize it. Thank you very much, good afternoon. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.201.0	You have the word, to answer, the Counsellor of the Presidency, Mrs. Elsa Artadi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.202.0	Okay. Many thanks, Mrs Madaula, because I really agree fully with the need for this debate, and I think that it is a debate that we need to have, that we need to be able to hold it in Parliament, to all the Catalan institutions, and that we need to be able to hold it in the street, also with civil society and with the people who want and want to face what is happening. He was talking about human rights, and actually this year – and we have commented on it several times – the 70th anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights was celebrated, a tape that was historic but that still today is an ideal that all of us should feel compelled to complete, and that seems that some do not do so. I found one thing, the other day, looking at the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which I thought would please him, and it is that at a time when inclusive language did not exist and was not practiced, it applies for the first time in a document like this. And it is the first time, in a document of this level, that it applies, that it speaks of the "rights of the human beings opposed to which had been spoken so far, that were the rights of men. And precisely, this happens because there is a female leadership behind, not just Eleanor Roosevelt's, which we all know a lot, but also Hansa Mehta's, which was crucial in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. And this female leader also makes things happen. That's why it's important the reference, too, that has made now that there are deputies and that there are female leaders. The universal declaration remains an ideal today, it continues to be a referent, but clearly we must continue to pass from what are declared right to which are effective right, and constantly, in this Parliament, we talk about it, because it is the pocket of all of us. Or this very dilluns, the dilluns of this week, was presented with the Pla de Drets Humanes de Catalunya, which was a task of the Government of the Government of the Later Legislature to the Synod of Greuges, which is driving with the structure of human rights, with the participation of experts, entities, and which is now in the phase of civic participation. That, of course, there was some Member of this Parliament who attended this presentation of the Pla de Drets Humanes in Catalonia, that when he heard the word self-determination he had to escape and, of course, he skipped the part that was talking about women, that came later. We have the statement of the United Nations, which speaks of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, and speaks of discrimination against women and not euphemisms that want to place these days as domestic discrimination, etc. We also have the Istanbul Convention in preventing and fighting violence against women, where there is a special reference to sexual violence and what is the need for consent in order to have these sexual relations, a consent that must be explicit, which we call 'yes' and where we must run from 'no'. Only it is. There's a lot of running in here, too. The Spanish State has decided that it seems that it would now be possible to adapt the legislation of an agreement that has been in force for many years and has been signed for many years. At our home we have also spoken, we also have laws that have been essential, that are essential, such as the right of women to eradicate male violence, the effective equality of women and men. These laws aren't enough, and we haven't talked much – huh? , Member of Parliament Segovia – in this Parliament. They are not enough, but they are certainly necessary and essential. If we didn't keep them, we'd still be a lot worse off. The last decades we've been conquering rights but we haven't consolidated them. Fighting for women's rights, unfortunately, will continue and surely continue for many years. Our rights today are still being violated. In Catalonia, more than 25_percent of women declare that there has been male rape. In the Spanish State, ever since, almost a thousand women murdered for male violence in the last fifteen years: a thousand women. In the European Union, one_of_each_three women claims to have been a victim of physical or sexual rape; one_of_each_twent declares to have been raped; more than 50_per_cent declares to have suffered sexual assault and one_of_three states to have suffered psychological abuse on the part of their partner. And I'm emphasising the statement not because there's no doubt about these women – as some people would do today – but precisely because there's still a lot of silence today, and because precisely making the invisible visible is what helps us defend our rights. In the world, 40_percent of women live in countries where abortion is forbidden; more than 200_million women live without access to modern methods of contraception: wage bracket, working conditions, few jobs in the informal sector, with less qualified tasks; this is the day-to-day, still, today, in Catalonia, in the labour market, in the western world and, obviously, in developing countries. And if we get into the situation of migrating women, women with disabilities, large women or other collectivities, the violations are still much bigger. In short, to the European Union, to the world, to Catalonia, the women still suffer situations of violation of our human rights. 2018_was an important year, or as at least it can be an important year if he knows how to enjoy it, because he was a year where we could feel our voice in a clearer, more powerful way, and, above all, much more massive and widespread than before. And, therefore, it may be a point of inflection that we cannot afford to take advantage of, because there really is a long way to go. 2018 was the year of the March 8 feminist wave, of the first March 8 feminist wave, a wave that, like other mobilizations, like so many other mobilizations, was seen to be underprivileged, underprivileged by political options, those political options that wanted to change everything because they changed. And, basically, captivating the wave of ideology, as if ideology was an insult. 2018 is also the year of #MeToo, it is the year of #Tell it, the year that each country held its own label, where the women explained – we explained – threats, violence, attitude, and where they were common mass, and that's why we all read them, because we felt reflected, but there were a few shared ones. What was 2018, too? 2018 was also the year of La Manada's sentence, but not just La Manada's. Often, and constantly, we have to see feelings in which the woman is told: "Yes, look, I already know that you did not want to, but clearly, how you did not defend yourself sufficiently before one or more men, how you did not play your life, so, look, you may not have right to the recognition or protection that you would have if you had defended yourself well and played your life. This has also been 2018, a 2018 that has seen itself in an even clearer way as the system of male justice abuses women. But by the end of 2018, especially, and now at the beginning of this 2019, we are also seeing a summary of the more retrograde and more dangerous masculinism, of political options and social currents that practice, declare it shameless, here and there. We wanted to go over, precisely, some of the data. I wanted to put them down, because I think we need to ask ourselves how it can be that someone is on the side, not just taking pictures, but also signing political pacts, at the side of who wants to repeal laws against male violence, who wants to repeal laws in favor of equality, you know that they are not as advanced as we can have here. We're still wondering how someone's playing the game of bleaching ultra-darts that spread lies about the situation of women, abuse and discrimination. It is serious, because defending and repealing these laws that protect us, that are necessary to protect us, is connivance with those who abuse us, abuse us, discriminate against us, rape us and murder us. Please, let's all think about it, because if it's true that we have to face the ultrathreat of ideological combat, it's not least true that we also have to make strong and coherent political decisions. That's how different European countries are making it. The clearest example we have in Sweden at the time of making the government agreement, which has cost them God and help. A cadira is not worth unprotecting women. And, if it goes well, it just shows the priorities of each school. Before I said it, 2018_was an important year, or it could be. Please, don't let 2019 be the year of negationism and the year of masculinism. Here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, representatives of our society we have to be strong about the denunciation of lies. We must be strong with this parallel reality of invented data that they only aim to delegitimize the adventures of women. I don't know who it is that women have the same rights as men. We must compromise some of this Parliament, from our society, to seek out those political options that deny us rights, that deny us human rights to women. Because as many of us look forward to building the Catalonia of the future, there are some who consider themselves more like the Spanish of the 1950s. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.203.0	Thank you, Counselor. I understand you're resigning from the second round of questioning. [[Asking the Government about the separatist process and its consequences for all Catalans]] [[300-00074/12]] Therefore, we would now move to the fifteenth point of the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the separatist process and its consequences for all Catalans, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. I, to expose the inquiry, has the word the deputy Carlos Carrizosa. If they don't give me a counterindication, the record, in any case, that the deputy who has to intervene, if not to the hemicicle at the time they correspond, loses his return. So, I'd appreciate it if you'd let me know if it's coming... [[Pause.]] All right, the word's on Congressman Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.204.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, excuse the entrance, the rapid break-in. Look, in this interpellation I think the first thing to do is start by taking a look at the sixteen months we've had since the coup to democracy, a quick look. A quick balance that gives us the story of a break in serious coexistence, which was determined by the break in existing legality. During these sixteen months we have seen how many more crimes of hatred, threats, insults have been recorded... There has been damage to property, car rallies, houses have been painted, they have called for violence from the institutions, from the highest institution in Catalonia, from the President of the Generalitat it has been said « pressurize, pressurize the CDRs, it has been appealed to the Slovenian way, there have been attacks on people who removed yellow ties, there have been xenophobic or supremacist attacks on citizens by their origin, there have been attacks on party headquarters, there have been threats of fines and sanctions by the police on Twitter, those who withdrew yellow ties, without any legal basis, there has been an impossibility of exercising fundamental rights in demonstrations when these demonstrations were in support of bilingualism or were in support of the National Police and the Civil Guard, because they have not been able to complete their right to assembly and demonstration, with complaints even of the Councillor of the Interior saying that, well, I see no other thing that I can do with the law. Fortunately, he still has to apply the Spanish Constitution which they tried to repeal. There is a propagandistic use of the public media, which has, by the way, recently led the European Parliament to maintain an investigation into TV3 for its partiality and indoctrination. There has been, speaking of indoctrination, indoctrination in schools. There has been an ideological takeover of the streets and institutions by you, which right now, a while ago, our president Inés Arrimadas denounced, therefore, the way in which the workers of the Catalan Administration are subjected to concrete stops at twelve o'clock, we will signify us all out there or go through the hoop of having a council decorated as if it were the headquarters of Esquerra Republicana. Finally, the rights of parliamentarians have been violated, with rulings of the Constitutional Court, which did not invent it, and the Constitution and the Statute in this Parliament were finally completely repealed through illegal procedures. Today there is news on ABC: "Independence broke the law last year on three hundred_one occasions. You will say: "Oh, the ABC – the ABC –; of course, evil... Well, listen, look: three hundred_one. Not that it was ten, not twenty. It's a shame; it's a shame for you. And not to mention the economic damage and the damage to the dignity of the institutions that have caused these sixteen months of separatist madness in Catalonia. And then I give you a review, which I think has been long, because you were..., some Members of your bench were leaving the plenary because they could not resist the enumeration of so many contempts because..., carried out by your government. But it is that, in parallel with all this, we have encountered a true conjure of misrepresentation. You, now that the trial is coming, all these facts that we live from 6 and 7 September 2017 and that we live also in October when here you declared illegal and unilaterally independence, all those facts that we live, it seems that have not happened. What happened at the councilhouse you run, Mr Aragonès, when it was avoided that a judicial commission should carry out its functions, when they were surrounded, when those responsible for that siege negotiated that if they went out they would have to leave without papers and by a small small small pass between a mob willing to do not know what and that they should not comply with the obligation that a judge had ordered them, that it was basically seeking proof of how you were spending the money of all Catalans for the purposes that you wanted to achieve from independence, because now, at the door of the trial, you intend to sell us that this trial is a political trial, that Spain is not a democracy, that you are oppressed. With your 112,000 euros the gentlemen placed in the chiringuitos, you are of an oppressed that good, that is incredible. Look, there are others... Mr Puigdemont... sorry, Mr Torra, lying here in Parliament today, saying that Mr Puigdemont has already been tried. Lying or demonstrating an unusual ignorance of reality. But what the German court said when it ruled on Mr Puigdemont's extradition – and did not judge him, but decided on his extradition –..., it said that in any case the crime of high treason which has the same political character in all states since it is an offence against the political order and the very existence of the State is not debatable within the framework of extradition. Therefore, he did not judge it or intend to judge it, nor even made an idea, he only said that they could not enter into the analysis of this crime, but above all what he determined is: "It is absurd to think that the Spanish State, a member of the community of values and of the common legal space of the European Union, could abuse a criminal procedure with the intention of punishing the defendant for his political convictions. And he adds it's unimaginable. But it is that I do not need the German court to say this, that this is unimaginable and that this is not a political persecution, it is that this is obviously believed by the entire international community, because, if it were otherwise, we would be described in a very different way throughout the world. And the truth is that you are alone, alone as one, while, for example, The Economist's 2018 democracy index puts Spanish democracy, because, in place 19 of 165, and puts it ahead of Japan, of the United States of America, of France, of Belgium. This is the reality, however much you have endeavored to distort it. And one thing happens: that when you try here to establish a republic without democratic guarantees, on the 6th and 7th, with that law of disconnection in which you forced the officials to ask for integration into the Catalan administration, and that this integration and the incorporation of officials made it you, the executive, by decree law, a decree law that could not revise the Guarantee Board, that you had pulled out of the sleeve that could not revise the decrees law, with a jurisdictional body of government of the judges that was appointed entirely by the executive and by the legislative power, and your friends, that you did not have to be judges, then you try to make a coup here to democracy, to establish a kind of republic without democratic guarantees, you are the example of the populisms that are currently destroying the world and that try to take over the institutions by destroying the mechanisms of control and compensation. And now, when democracy is going to act, because democracy acts through its powers and one of its powers to defend any democracy, such as this, that we are the 19 of 165 countries, one of the only twenty countries that is considered full democracy, full democracy, in the world, one of the only..., and you now intend to replace this judgment with a sort of televised judgment... I know you do all this very grace, Mrs Madaula. I know..., of course, when people do not respect democracy, when people already announce that they will not abide by the judgments of the courts in a democracy, and they intended to establish in Catalonia a republic outside the democratic principles of the European Union..., for we are not surprised that you laugh, not strange; the same have done other totalitarian dictatorships and regimes throughout history on the globe, on the planet, the same: they have used that they have arrived at the institutions and then they have started to subvert the rules until they take over completely of them. But here are the Democrats. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] That we're not going to consent to this happening...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.205.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.206.0	...and that we will vote on the motion... then I will explain to you the principles that we will vote on. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.207.0	To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.208.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Carrizosa, you could innovate a little, I believe, because today I really assume that your group, like they don't have to have more fear to make an inquiry, have decided to take the same speech from the Ple d'aboir de Nadal. I already know that these days they have been very busy dealing with Vox, and therefore they may not have been able to prepare the questions that they would touch in this plenary, and they have decided to take the same as they were explaining in the plenary that we held the week, so, before the unaligned, in which we made a specific ple, which you asked, about the plenary of 6 and 7 September 2017, and they have put back the arguments on the table. Actually, it's not new. You say that this government and this majority of Parliament only devote ourselves to certain things, but then it turns out that when we look at your questions in this Parliament you only focus them on certain things. That is to say, who is talking more about the process, who is talking more about the external action of the Generality, about these supposed embassies, which they explained, bearers of evil throughout the world, who speak precisely of the economic effects of the independence process, etcetera, are you. So I already told them once, and I mean, when they talk about the trial hamster, so I think the trial hamster must be from Ciutadans, right? Well, I'm sure of it. In any case, he went back to repeating various arguments that were not repeated and not by insisting that we would accept them from the side of the road, and we would fight them as we have always fought them, with the strength of the arguments. You started doing a rest of the past seven months, what's going on is that you left things at this place. And when we leave things in history, when we leave episodes, it turns out that in the end we can think that the movie went in another way and it turns out that it didn't go that way. You, for example, have left the 139 extreme right-wing violent attacks that we experienced between September and December 2017. You have been left that there were three investment intentions in this Parliament in agreement with the results of the 21st of September, from the elections of 21st of September 2017, and that they were not possible between others because the Constitutional Court did not give the candidate the job, there was a change in the case law that there was until now respect for the presence in the investiture of deputies who were in a position of imprisonment, and it is also oblivion that the third candidate who was put on the table, the deputy Jordi Turull, in the middle of the technical maturity of the investiture plenary, should be quoted as a candidate for the Presidency of the General Assembly and be pre-empted – pre-emptively – without there being nine more reasons there, therefore, that he was a candidate for the Presidency of the General. They have also forgotten that there are new people engaged in preventive work; that a good part of the academic community in the field of criminal law, not of Catalonia, of the Spanish State, considers that they are feeling it unfair. That we consider it unjustly those who obviously, therefore, give political recollection, that we are their companions, that we are the people we have worked with, or that the voters consider it not enough for you, but also consider it a lot and a lot of people. That it is called, for example, on behalf of the PEN Club International, that it is this international entity of reference for the freedom of writers and for the freedom of thought and creation..., that it asks for the release of Jordi Sànchez and Jordi Cuixart, you have not put it in the rest of these seven_months. Nor did he say that there are people who are living outside the Spanish State because they have an arrest warrant for the Spanish State, an order that, when I pass the test of the side of other jurisdictions, and I refer to Germany, I refer to Belgium, and I almost passed to Scotland, so I don't pass this proof of the side. And what if all the investigating judge of the cause that follows against these political and social leaders, knowing how they see criminal suspects, alleged criminals, renouncing their obligation to pursue crimes, why? Because he knows there won't be a positive resolution to his arrest request. Therefore, you have left many things; your film is completely incomplete. And he put it back on the table, so good part of his argumentary. And you say we criticize it as a political trial. So we consider that this is a political trial. It's a political judgment because the report you're holding on to, the political report you're holding on to is a misrepresentation of the rebellion crime. Now it turns out that it is possible to make an armed rebellion without weapons, it is the new theory; it is in false accounts by the instruction of the Civil Guard, which are false– which are false–, they are absolutely false. In fact, even in the videos that go as evidence in the Supreme Court's case for which you mentioned from the Economy Council, it is said that all this went before the Economy Council and there are images of the illegal entry intent into your People's Union Candidate, which has nothing to do with what there was..., yes, you have to see that it was part of the same political operation, but that it is not the facts from before the Department of Economy for which you want to pose for rebel crime..., therefore, you want to put a good glue of years in prison Jordi Sànchez and Jordi Cuixart and keep in the situation of deprivation of liberty..., in the situation of deprivation of liberty. And it's a political trial because how well their members of the People's Party have said they are able to control from behind the Supreme Court's criminal chamber that will judge these people. And it's a political judgment because the narrative of events starts with the 2012 elections and starts by analyzing the electoral programs; some electoral programs that are fully legal because they were able to submit, no one illegalized candidates, there was no objection at that time. And, therefore, only when they find that the citizens of Catalonia or a majority of the citizens of Catalonia are determined to assert the right to decide and to assert the right to self-determination, then this is converted into..., those ballot boxes become supposed weapons, right? Therefore, you insist on his report. But we, yes, believe that it is a political judgment, and that it is not just because it will have a political impact, but because it has a clear political motivation, that it is to escape independence, it is to make a notice to navigators and it is to establish a state of return of rights and freedoms in Catalonia that, later or later, will end up applying to the rest of the State. Why today Catalonia, as were other territories of the State, in very different contexts, with a presence..., with the presence of armed organizations that were..., obviously, that practiced terrorism in a very different context, there was a bank of evidence of regression of rights and freedoms; today I feel it in Catalonia, with a totally different context, where everything has been fully peaceful, has been a clearly democratic will and with totally civic manifestations, hasn't it? Make reference, you, to defend this State at The Economist's meeting. I really like The Economist as a reference magazine for you. In fact, I don't agree with many of the things they say in their editorials, because I think you have a vision, sometimes, of the ultra-liberal mass of the economy, don't you? But to you... I see that for you it's a reference, right? So you read the editorial that there was after October 1, when it said that this was to be done, that the Rajoy government was wrong about repression and that this was to be done with a reference to the people of Catalonia and that there was a democratic exit. And The Economist is not for Catalonia's independence at the moment, but he was defending that there was a democratic exit and not a violent exit. The mirror that says The Economist of Vox, qualified The Economist to Vox. He doesn't say, "Oh, maybe he's populist. No, no... say it's extreme right, that's what Vox is. No populist, extreme right. Because, of course, it turns out that a party when it deals with you..., a party of extreme right when it deals with you is transmuted into a populist party, right? On the other hand, when a greeting goes before an independent demonstration, it's all left of the extreme right. In fact, who deals with the extreme right is you, who manifests himself with the extreme right is you. In any case, a reality, and you were talking about the reality is..., so, listen to me, the reality is that you have had the opportunity to set up majorities of government have made it from the very right hand. And the other reality is that, as much as you insist, as much as you make your fake news factory go, the citizens of Catalonia who defend independence will not disappear, and we will not just disappear, but every day we are more. We are also many times grateful for your help, which shows us that, unfortunately, Spain does not have a project that is attractive to most Catalans. And that is why we defend the independence of our country, and we will continue to defend it in a civic, peaceful and democratic way before a political court, and also before this alliance with the extreme right that you are leading in Andalusia and that we always fight here and everywhere. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.209.0	For the answer, the Member has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.210.0	Look, Mr. Aragonès, do you know what's going on? That you're in fashion. And they're fashionable because you're populist and because Mr. Torra is ultra-nationalist. And that's what The Economist says, too. [[Greetings.]] That is, that you alluded to The Economist, so call Mr. Ultranationalist Torra. And I have quoted a report from The Economist, not an editorial line; but if we talk about editorial lines or opinions from The Economist, then I can tell you what you say about Mr. Torra, with whom you rule, The Economist. But, well, you know that... that Mr. Torra is xenophobic and supremacist as well as the three main parties of the European Union. And they say so, since you allude that if we in Andalusia have some covenants or others, I say to you: "Listen, you are ruling... First, that we in Andalusia have no covenants with any populist force, that is the first. But what you will tell me is that it is, whether it is far-right or not, far-right, so what Mr Torra said on 11 October 2010: "Spain has essentially been an exporting country of material and spiritual misery speaking or calling when it speaks of « caronyaires beasts, shields, hyenas, beasts in human form, tanmateix que glupegen odi. There's something Freudian about these beasts, a little subtract to his DNA chain. Or when he says that he « runs the risk that the birth is undone as a sugar in a jar of milk held for the allau emigrants..., immigrants. So, Mr. Torrent, you're ruling... oh, sorry, Mr. Aragonès, you're ruling with this gentleman. And I was telling you that you are fashionable because you are populist, you were co-authors of the coup to democracy that we live here. And you have also made covenants, so, with..., you go together with whom it is clear that he is a person, so he is saying the manifestations that I have read to him. But I was also telling him that being fashionable in a world in which populisms are fashionable, so it's easy to qualify you. There's a book I recommend, How Democracies Die, which is a book that's written by two Harvard professors and talks about Donald Trump, basically. There is a rich bibliography about Donald Trump in North America, university professors. And they're taking a lot of care to warn the Americans when politics..., when democracy is in jeopardy. And then, they give a number of points to identify when governments are populist or when they are not. And here it is very curious, because they give four key indicators of the authoritarian behavior of populists and..., gives four. The first: rejection or weak acceptance of the democratic rules of the game. He says: "Do they reject the Constitution or express their will not to abide by it? If the answer is yes, we are probably faced with authoritarian populists. Two: denial of the legitimacy of political opponents. You no longer deny the catalanity of your political opponents, sometimes even treat them like beasts. For you, we are not Catalans, so it does not matter whether you have a majority or not. For you, who on social networks and right here..., well, and Mrs. De Gispert questions those who are not Catalans, because, they have no majority, deny the legitimacy of political opponents. Do they tolerate or encourage violence? Have they tacitly supported the violence of their supporters by refusing to condemn or penalize unambiguousness? Yes, they encourage, « tighten up, tighten up with the CDRs. Do they or have they refused to condemn other prominent acts of political violence, both past and past, in other parts of the world? You hug Otegi, you hug Carlos Sastre, you take pictures with them. Four: predisposition to restrict civil liberties of the opposition, including the media. Here, fortunately, the protection of rights and freedoms rests in one of the powers of the State, which is the judges and courts. But you, while not being easy to carry the rights and freedoms of Catalans, have already tried with threats of fines, demonstrations trying to prevent demonstrations and depriving all of your opposition of visibility in public places. That is why I say to you that we, as liberals, centrists and moderates, are obliged to speak clearly so that you do not charge our democracy. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] What we want is to abide by...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.211.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.212.0	...the sentence coming out, not putting a sentence in the Republican Left headquarters, which is, it seems, what you would like. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.213.0	For the answer, the vice president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.214.0	Thank you, President Torrent. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.215.0	Quiet, and please! Shut up, everybody! [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Hope's, Mr. Vice President. Yeah? [[Pause.]] When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.216.0	Thank you very much, President. It is true that the populists are the ones who do not respect the rules of democracy, like, at least, the rules of the Catalan Parliament, which is when someone is in the use of the word, so it cannot be interrupted, it must be allowed to begin. In any case, now you've... you've done well in Poland, forgive me. [[Widow's remorse.]] Excuse me. Because the text gag with the word of the day, now the word of the week is that they're turning everything into their Republican Left. No problem. They come to visit the suos of Esquerra Republicana. The doors are open. They see, for example, that there are some who have suffered fascist attacks, and we will teach them. Maybe we don't do a tweet or a press wheel or not all the media in the state when we're having a fascist attack on our own. Because we don't want to amplify fascism. We're also reporting this, but we don't want to amplify fascism, which is often what you're chasing: creating a state of people self-limiting in their expressions. But we'll teach you your Republican Left. They're open, they're open, obviously, to you. Therefore, guests are invited. The day we teach them, and they see that they're not so bad places – they're not so bad places. That there are normally four chairs, in rotllana, because we like, therefore, to work in an open way. And even so, there are some entities that ask us to do activities in many municipalities, because there's not enough public space, there's not enough civic centers many times, and they ask us, and we do. In any case, therefore, the doors of Esquerra Republicana's suos are open. He's pulled back not from President Torra's hemeroteca, but from his own. Because, of course, I suppose so much was spent on those articles, on which the president commented extensively in the same investiture debate. They've been spending so much, say, that they seem to end up obliving some things, don't they? You reported that President Torra in those articles made a pile of years of not knowing what he was talking about migration, didn't you? from immigration. Apart from trying to make it clear that this government is a supremacist government, xenophobic, that it has immigration..., go, when many of these members of this government, many, we have the impression that they come from other places..., that they do not come from Catalonia, that they come from other places of which we feel very proud; when we have the first member of the government of the Government of Catalonia, the Councillor El Homrani, of Moroccan origin, come to say that this is a xenophobic government? Home, but don't you see? I'm looking at the front bench. I mean, sometimes there are things that aren't just heard, right? But you do make pacts, and you make pacts, for example, with a party that defends expel 54,000 people who live in Andalusia because they are immigrants without papers. And your pact. They make them do the brute work to the PP – they make them do the brute work to the PP – because you are a propaganda machine and do not want to have this taque. But they have it, because they have agreed with Vox, which defends the expulsion of all these citizens from Andalusia, these 54,000 immigrants without papers, right? And they're still making a fake report, which is the rape report. In fact, you've done an unusual thing that's the preemptive quarrels about a rape that's not produced. You have, of course, filed a suit for sedition against the Government of the Generality; on the same 21st of December, you filed a suit for sedition for certain parties that supposedly are produced for a leave of office at the same time that the Mossos d'Esquadra, in coordination with other bodies and security forces, were guaranteeing the right to freedom of expression, the right to peaceful protest and, of course, the meeting of the institutions, such as the Council of Ministers, in Barcelona. And while that was happening, while the Government of Catalonia was constantly making a cry that who is meant to manifest it peacefully and in a civic way... Because the right to demonstration is a right, obviously it must be done in a civic and peaceful way, if it does not stop being a right, right? But while we were doing this, you were presenting some absolutely false claims of seditiousness that, in fact, you didn't talk about, did you? And about communication media, we're talking about communication media: I didn't hear them almost raise their eyes when I stopped a photojournalist last week in Girona to do his job. And that's not press chase. When he's gone without a court order, in the wake of an investigation that no one has ordered yet – that no one has ordered now – and no one wants to be held responsible. Or I'd like you to be so supportive of press freedom when communications are being made to professionals from Europe Press in Palma de Mallorca not so many weeks ago. And you're quiet. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] So, obviously...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.217.0	Vice President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.218.0	... Mr. Carrizosa – yes, I'm finished – we'll see your young lady, who said that she would talk about it and for the moment she didn't explain it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.219.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Question to the Government about the balance of the first year of the legislature for rights, self-determination, repression and breakdowns of the state's dialogue]] [[300-00070/12]] The next question is about the balance of the first year of the legislature for which it does rights, self-determination, repression and weaknesses of the state's dialogue. Presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed, the deputy Mr Carles Riera exposed the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.220.0	Well, thank you, President. Indeed, on these dates we have sunk the first year since the beginning of this legislature and we are also approaching the beginning of a new political cycle, which will obviously be marked by the celebration of the judges to our political prisoners and prisoners. It is, therefore, from our point of view, a propitious moment to make a balance, a balance of what has been this first year of the legislature, of what political situation we find ourselves in and about how we look at the new cycle. Obviously, this question precedes a motion that will put forward political proposals and initiatives that the Government of the Generality insists on correcting to what we consider to be errors and shortcomings of its action until the present moment, and to adopt a new political direction that effectively puts into effect the political mandate of '1 October and the electoral commitments of 21 December, as well as the democratic agenda that our country should look for in order to defend and enforce the social, civil, political, economic and cultural rights of everyone today restricted and threatened by the Spanish State, among them the right to self-determination, which is precisely a clause, if not from our point of view, that can open up the whole of the debate. In short, we want to urge the government to stop being an obstacle and a delay, as it is now in our country, to the recovery of the rights of Catalonia and to ensure that it is not locked in institutions or in the state pacts where the people have opened up with their struggle in the streets. For what it does to balance, we want to say first that we come from a threefold crisis of the State, which also includes its autonomy, and with particular affect in the case of the Catalan Countries; a threefold crisis in force and aggravated in its main dimensions still today; a crisis of democratic legitimacy motivated by the growing contempt of the institutions and of its political class, and especially of the monarchy, and largely because of the corruption and privileges of the chronic and structural nature of the regime; a social crisis because of the management of the economic crisis in favour of the elites and against the public services and of the popular classes, and the continuing growth of inequalities in the working environment, the problem of housing and the deterioration of the national health system in the context of the economic and social order of the poor classes. Well, for what it does to the social crisis, today more than 20_percent of the employed population in Catalonia collects less than a thousand_gross euros per month; 25_percent of the assailed women charge a year less than 11,792_gross euros, which puts its monthly rate at 842,5_euros. Notwithstanding this, the benefits of companies in the Spanish State increased by 200_per_cent in year 16 compared to the previous year, while wages remained stagnant since 2012. Since the beginning of the economic recovery, approximately on the 15th, most of the money from the economic growth has gone to the butxaques of the richest, four times more times than to the poorest fringe of the population. And more concretely, since the first quarter of the 12th, the productivity per hour worked has increased twice as much as the average wage, but they are paralyzed since the companies – certainly, with which you have entered, went to dinner on the 20th of September – have chosen to gain competitiveness at a lower labour cost. And it's women and young people who pay the bill. The annual sound of a twenty-i-sis-years-old worker today is 33_per_cent lower than the year 2008. In change, life's attachment is a constant in basic aspects such as transportation, habitating, communication. Today in Catalonia we also remember – remember – denunciations. The population in a precarious situation is 42.6_per_cent, and 51.4_per_cent are women. The poverty risk rate is – attention – 20_percent of the population, and it has increased despite macroeconomic recovery, manifesting the scenario also growing in the popular classes. Counselor, without justice and equality, without guaranteed basic rights for everyone, cannot build a new country for everyone. Is your government willing to disobey the State, the markets and businesses of IBEX 35 to ensure universal basic rights, such as, for example, the right to self-determination, combat precariousness or generate effective equality between men and women? Well, we're still going through the three crises. The mobilisations of 15-M, 1 and 3 October 17, later, and the growing power of the feminist movement have marked the political and social agenda in the march of multiple and continuous social and labor struggles in all sectors and territories, and the response of the State has always been the same: repression, from law bites to judgment of 1 October, through the violation of freedom of expression, the criminalization of protest, the persecution of immigration and the systematic disclaimer. And it means that this has been a repressive response orchestrated with the complicity and participation of all the powers and institutions of the State, with special protagonists of the fiscal and judicial apparatus, and, of course, of the key-gathering of the State. The State feels fragile and its answer is not the dialect, reforms or democratic deepening, years against, repression and the reduction of rights, not only against independence, but against everyone who can question the State: artists, vaguists, immigrants, masters, denominations, defenders of the territory. Altsasu, to Euskal Herria, or repression against SAT, to Andalusia, are also bloody examples. It is for the conjunct of the crises and the anti-democratic responses of the State that we speak of the crisis of rule, of the rule of the 78, of the conglomerate of political, judicial, police, military, ecclesiastical, economic and media powers that, organized and allied in the institutions of the State, including the autonomous ones, repress and violate rights according to their interests in order to maintain their extractive power over the popular classes in the conjunct of the territory, reproduce, support their privileges and maintain their international positions, fight class and patriarchate in full rule and complexity, putting the State at the service of the ruling classes in the march of capitalism and global neoliberalism. Today the Constitution, arising from a monarchic pact with Francoism, is still a fundamental legal political instrument for this strategy. But, well, between October 1 and 3, 17th is to give the conditions for the break-up with the 78th rule in Catalonia; more than two million mobilised people disobeyed and resisted repression were to self-determine themselves jointly with the majority of Parliament and Government at that time, but sadly neither the Government of the Generality nor the parties forming part of it were to initiate or sustain the construction of the republic that was to derive from that popular act of sovereignty. The popular struggle had led a change of hegemony that opened the door that the response to the three crises of the State fruited at our home in the democratic break with the 78th rule and opened the door to a republic with more rights and democracy for everyone. Certainly, the process of self-determination after '1 and 3 October did not only pose in question political relations with the State, but also power relations in Catalonia, and opened the door to social and democratic changes that did not only scare the Spanish State, but also Europe and the same Catalan leaders. What happened next is quite well-known: repression, democratic regression, promotion of the extreme right, fascism, recomposition of the regime, threatening even all the rights that seemed indisputable. Like the world, global capitalism and evil patriarchy to become globalized, and this is done through the globalization of fascism to ensure the political conditions of its reproduction. And in this context, what has the new Government of the Generality done and the parties that support it? – and here I will not refer to the statements of the President of the Generality but to the practice of the Government. So give up exercising the right to self-determination, resuscitate the limits of the Statute and of the Constitution, without disobedience or any act of sovereignty, neither before the State nor before the bank nor the businesses of the IBEX 35; continue to apply the neoliberal policies that maintain and sharpen inequalities, protecting fascism in public space and suppressing protest. But not only that, since December 21st, in the wake of the visit of the President of the Spanish Government to Barcelona, we have seen a clear demobilizing and descaling will of the political conflict with the Spanish State, under the primacy of a dialogue and a negotiation that excludes the right to self-determination, the release of prisoners and prisoners, and the return of exiles and exiles, total obedience to the institutions of the State and to the doctrines of the troika. Today, before the resignation of the government and the institutions in defence of the rights, it is the social movements – the unions, the waves and the popular self-organization – that kept the struggle, the protest and the proposal alive. You are well after the lesson according to which as more obedience to the State and more conservatives follow the policies, the more you can develop autonomy and support the elites and oligarchies. Counsellor, what is your government doing to implement the democratic mandate of the October 1 referendum and its electoral commitments of 21 December? Are our civil and political rights, including the right to self-determination, a currency of change in the negotiation of state or autonomous assumptions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.221.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, there is now the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr. Alfred Bosch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.222.0	Mr Riera, honourable Members and Members, tell them first that we share in good part the dialogue, and with all our strength, but above all with you, and we also share in good part the diagnosis that has exposed us here about the current state in the Spanish State and the triple crisis, both economic and social, for a band, as democratic and in relation to civil rights, second place, and also a political crisis that, in our opinion, is mainly rooted in the lack of willingness of dialogue, political dialogue, to resolve a question that must have a democratic, consensual, peaceful and political solution, not judicial. Therefore, in this sense, I believe that in what is practical we are quite agreeable. You're talking about a while, aren't you? Some years, in which, therefore, the people of Catalonia have led a series of demands around freedom, around social needs, and that the State has responded with repression. Obviously, we also agree on this last year's visit. I, however, would like to insist on, say, who is the responsibility and where we are responsible for everything that has happened. And of course we have to talk that especially from 15-M and over the last few years it is the People's Party government, led by Mariano Rajoy, that, once the absolute majority has achieved, therefore, has taken a series of measures before which there has been an answer. That is to say, there was not only social and political leadership, but there was also an inevitable, necessary response from all those actors who wanted to preserve the values of democracy, civil rights and therefore need to respond to social needs. Before that, this response to an authentic offensive of the highest right and Spanish nationalism; so before this offensive, there was also an answer, huh? And I'm saying that, why? Why in the middle of this? Because we have to root and we have to place the problem where it really is. The problem is not on the ground of the forces that demand the national or social emancipation of our country or of the Catalan countries, the problem does not lie there, in this land; the problem we have to place it in a repressive power and return to the Spanish State, and we have to insist, you have mentioned, and in this we also agree, but I think that it is always necessary to place the responsibilities there where it is close. And it is obvious and I will give him some examples, if it was necessary, but the keystrokes and the powers of the State, the ultra-right and the most radical Spanish nationalism, so they have been emboldened by the last few years and have applied a series of measures that are the ones that have provoked a response based on democratic movements, social movements, which sense of doubt has had to answer and which sense of doubt also have a more legitimate agenda on the table. But there are some examples of this coming from the powers of the State to repression and regression: the judges – to talk about the last things, huh? – the judges who will start a few days ago, unfair judges, judges who represent an authentic political cause against a movement of the whole legitimate, judges that we, therefore, denounce, because we would never want to have produced, because they would never have produced, but that it is clear that we will take advantage of, and profit from, the Jews, therefore, as they do, no, and it is to take advantage of the brute, unjust and excessive force of the adversary to demonstrate their frailties and their feverishness. Or questions such as the existence of exiles. We have exiles, let's say, and it's not because, it's to avoid that injustice that has been eaten by other companies that are now in prison, and, therefore, they are forced to leave the Spanish State. Very recently, the arrests of Girona or the arrest of the mayors of Verges and Celrà. And we still don't know who ordered these arrests and why, but obviously there wasn't a court order. Therefore, these irregularities are continued and we see them every day. Or things like the Parliament of Extremadura demanding the application of 155 to Catalonia. Clearly, you imagine that in this Parliament we are asking for something similar, the suppression of democratic institutions in Extremadura? Can you imagine what would happen and what would happen if we did this? Why is that? And why is he doing it with impunity? So obviously why is there this offensive of the most conservative right and Spanish nationalism that they want to act with total impunity. Or the leader of the People's Party, Mr. Married, said that he wants to reapply and that if he can reapply a law like 155, but said that he will apply it no matter what, no matter what happened, nothing again, it's to say, prevaricating. And here again we see the impunity with which the repressive and regressive forces of the Spanish State act. O Citizens and the People's Party legitimizing the ultrathreat in Andalusia and agreeing, therefore, from a program that really makes it want. Well, the list is long, we know it will follow, but we are very clear that we must always try to distinguish between the forces that attack and that attack the democratic values and the legitimate economic and social values of any people, and those that are attacked. And we must express solidarity, I understand, with those who are attacked by the repressive forces and the regressive forces of the Spanish State. So, when you ask about October 2017, man, we have to make this distinction and we have to say that on those days those who were attacked and the representatives of those who were attacked, huh? So, man, we have to pinya... or else, we don't have to confuse each other and we have to say that those who were attacked tried to act with a sense of responsibility and country as they sought it. And that, moreover, those who put the collar on it are in prison or exile to avoid arrest. And that's what we have to do, and we have to remember it all the time. Therefore, they are victims, and as such we must consider them. And it's clear who's responsible, and who's in prison and who's had to go to exile and hundreds of people who are under investigation and many cases, so they're not the culprits of what's going on. Therefore, we are ruling in a difficult context, and if you, from the CUP, have the feeling that we can do more and that we need to do more, so let's sit in a table, let's talk about it, because we are willing to listen to any suggestion. And why more and more – more and more – is that we want them, and we want them to go together and stage in a very clear way this solidarity that those we've been assaulted we have to keep between us, and this pinya we have to make. And help us resist and help us find the resources to do it, tell us assumptions or tell us what you want. And get us back from the 155th, huh? So, what we think we need to do is this: let's make the toilets we can have more quickly, let's pinya, and look at the future. About the dialog. The dialog is necessary, and the dialog is always to be maintained. It is that even in the worst conflicts, armed conflicts that have occurred in the world, in parallel, always sought to start the path of the dialog. Why? Because it is necessary and because above all you have to keep the dialog with those with whom you have great differences; with those we understand more easily, so maybe the dialog is not so necessary. Of course it's necessary and of course we'll keep it, it's obvious. So, listen, we fight all threats to democracy and civil rights, we defend institutions and democracy. It's what we've been doing and it's what we've been doing this year, which is what you're asking us to do. We don't want to, and we don't think there's going to be any unfair trials, this general political cause, do we? against people who defend democracy and defend citizens' rights to decide their future. Therefore, listen, and ask: do we disobey the State? The answer is obvious. We, from the Government of Catalonia, have done so far [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] We will continue to obey the democratic values and the most elementary civil and human rights, and what we will do...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.223.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.224.0	...is to serve the people of Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.225.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.226.0	...that 21st of December sorted us out because we're in this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.227.0	Thank you. For the answer is the return, again, of the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.228.0	Okay. Councillor... – thank you, President –, Councillor, I wonder that the Spanish State has an obvious responsibility, it is obvious; that there are oligarchies and state and international elites who have a direct responsibility, it is obvious. But the Government of the Generality also has a direct responsibility, because since 21 December we have not seen an act of sovereign government that allows us to think that there is a real, effective, material will to exercise self-determination. And that's why he didn't join us, and that's why we don't agree. If there is no exercise of self-determination, if there are no acts of sovereignty, it is not possible to build any unity. On the other hand, we don't agree on social policies, and we haven't talked much. We have not found in his Government a positive response from the point of view of developing policies of sobrieties, that is to say, that we are actually able to recover democratically and the service of our country's resources, infrastructures, basic services to put them to the service of the people, which is to the service of whom they are to be, and, obviously, therefore, under public control. And, therefore, I must say that with this autonomous and autonomous policy you are effectively becoming the necessary accomplices of the state's warning before your three crises. They continue to believe and say that in the legal-political framework of the Spanish State it is possible to solve a democratic solution to the conflict generated by independence, when they know perfectly well that this legal-political framework is precisely one of the main obstacles. We all know that only by unilaterality can we exercise self-determination and break with the 78's rule, so that we can initiate the republic's construction path, but you from the government and from the directions of the parties that support you continue to deceive the population by continually singing siren songs on a dialog that can only lead to the blockade of the independence project or autonomous reform and that has as immediate consequences the risk, yes, of demobilization and leaving the space free because the repositioning of the rule is done every time possible, now also with the help of the extreme right. And, for what it does to the motion that we are all following, I am already advancing some of the questions that we are making clear, which are very relevant to the subject of the debate that we are having precisely. We want to radically question a dialog that does not explicitly include the exercise of the right to self-determination and the fission of repression; this seems obvious to us. And, therefore, it is necessary before this and before the failure of the dialogue with the State, since I do not include these two basic principles, we want to clearly and clearly claim unilaterality. In front of the daily repression of thousands of people and the courts, also, since the institutions, accuse and condemn the State and persist in actions for which the State collectively accuses us, which are precisely disobedience, unilaterality and self-determination. A whole town is judged, a whole movement is judged, democracy and the right to self-determination is judged, and we must judge and accuse the State, affirming without any means that we will do it and that we will do it again. We'll go back to disobeying, and we'll go back to self-determining. These judgments, as if they were the beginning of a new cycle of popular and institutional struggle, with the democratic break with the State as to the end. We will also denounce the demobilization, the demobilization that goes from the Catalan institutions, and the photograph of the government with Pedro Sánchez and the employer as a democratic fraud and update of the 78's rule. We also claim that fighting for civil and political rights is indestriable from fighting for social rights. Three crises, three articulated struggles: self-determination, civil and political rights, social rights, LGBTIQ rights and feminism; organized, in the conjunction of the Catalan Countries, in alliance with the popular and social and political republican and democratic classes of the State, Europe and the world, in the framework of a broad anti-feixist movement. As I said before, build sobrieties, recover for the public title to what is of the people, to what must be democratically controlled: resources, infrastructure, basic services. Therefore, before the State and the IBEX 35, build a public sector that guarantees us national sovereignty, public finance, universal and free public services and basic rights for everyone, and redistribution of wealth. Permanent mobilization and civil disobedience. That the government and all the institutions are put at the service of social mobilization to remove the 78 rule and build the republic from institutional sovereignty and the exercise of self-determination, contesting the State and the companies of the IBEX 35 control of the territory and of the strategic resources. Indeed, counselor, at present his government's practice is, unfortunately, far from these principles, but I assure you: if it is not at the heart of this rupturist program, the exercise of self-determination is impossible. Therefore, for the leiiness of '1 October, 21 December, apply a rupturist program...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.229.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.230.0	...in defense of self-determination...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.231.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.232.0	...the pleguin. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.233.0	Thank you. Counselor, for the reply, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.234.0	On the right to self-determination, I assure you, Mr. Riera, that we have laid it on the table, we have laid it on the table and we will continue to lay it on the table. In fact, in whatever opportunity we have had to meet with the Spanish Government or whoever it is, any important actor with whom we have to meet and with whom we have to talk, the self-determination and the right of Catalans and Catalans to decide their future have always been there. In fact, when they have proposed to open talks to talk about the state's assumptions only or to talk about any question that interests the Government of the Spanish State, we have always said the same thing: if we talk, that we have to talk, because we have to do it, we talk about everything, let us not exclude anything, and let us not exclude, therefore, the situation of political prisoners and exiles, of course, and let us not exclude the democratic solution of this content, that sense of doubt goes through the democratic path; that, if democracy is the government of the people, of the people and of the people, that is the people who decide who will be the future of this country. So, there's always, we don't give up, we don't give up. On the contrary, it always goes forward. As for defending sovereignties, plurals, well, this is an exercise that can also be done, for example, with strong assumptions that allow for better sanitation, that allow for better education, that allow for better infrastructure, that allow for better rights and exercise of rights. The other day we were talking, for example, about cooperation in solidarity and how, if we have a few assumptions, we could exercise it more and more sovereignly and as we would like or more towards what we would like, that is to say, helping, in our modest part, to resolve the great differences between the north and the south of the planet and the great inequalities, which we do not share and, in change, we share with you that we must help these inequalities to disappear and that in our modest measure, therefore, we can also contribute to it. So, all this, of course, because we're working on it and we're going this way. When you talked about the October of 2017, so there was a warrant that didn't come through, huh? Listen, I can tell you that at that moment there wasn't enough strength to pull ahead of what we had scored, and that we scored, and that we tried it all the way to the end, and that the people who tried it all the way to the end, that it was the government of Catalonia that was there at that time, so now they are either in prison or exile. And that, therefore, we take into account that the lack of strength, so we do not want to see it again, we do not want to repeat it, we want to go further, we want to ensure that the mandate of the people is actually implemented and respected. And to do that, then, we need to be stronger. And we need to have more international strength – this is one of the issues that concerns us – we need to have more democratic internal strength and we need to have more political strength. That is to say, all those who really want to advance towards a just country, to a Catalan republic that responds to the interests of all citizens, of all, eh? So we have to pinya and we have to agree. And, obviously, criticism is necessary, and on the assumption that it is well accepted. I insist, therefore, we continue to work in this direction, and all that you think can be done to improve, the one that didn't finish working on October 2017, let's do it – let's do it – and let's do it together, eh? And one last comment for what he does to the court. Judges are unfair. We don't share with anyone who has taken all of our companies to prison, who's been around for more than a year, and who will now face accusations that aren't. Therefore, we believe that it should not be celebrated. First point. Second point, they'll be celebrating. And how they would be celebrated, so we would tell the truth. We would say that it is a political cause, that it is a cause that should not be brought to justice, that is based on false grounds, that there was no rape, etc. And, of course, we'll take advantage of it to explain the truth. And to explain it to as many people as you want to listen to us. So what we can do and what we can do in the courts is explain the truth, let it be known, that the whole world knows that it leads to judgment a legitimate political option, that everyone knows that it leads to judgment some people who defended democracy and that the only one they did was to put ballots because people can decide...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.235.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.236.0	...about your future. That's what we're doing and that's what we're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.237.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the blockade of the Open Arms vaixell at the port of Barcelona]] [[300-00071/12]] The next inquiry is about the blockade of the Open Arms vessel at the port of Barcelona. Presented for the Republican Parliamentary Group, the question was raised by Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.238.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, so, well, today surely there shouldn't be an inquiry for you, at least in this sense. We'd have to be here talking, and maybe with Councilman El Homrani, how we can get better, how we can strengthen the whole homing system. Or maybe we could be talking, in this case, about ethical and responsible conducts around our businesses. We could, and even it would be convenient, be talking about how Catalonia can help strengthen its ways of cooperation in development, to avoid, for example, people leaving your country. We should be talking about how we can do this because the PSOE government has completed its electoral promises, such as repealing the additional disposition of the law, which legalizes hot returns; the reform of the CIEs, foreign internment centres, which proposed reforms that have never arrived. We should be saying, in fact, that we do not want these reforms, that the only one we can accept is their closure. We could also be asking ourselves what role you can and must play Catalonia to strengthen the asylum offices in the world. We should be waiting for you in the Catalan government because you demanded the Spanish government to complete the relocation and resettlement quotas once and for all, as long as we have the refugee camps of Mória overflowing. We should all be working for a European protocol, as the CEAR reminded us yesterday, in order to avoid improvisation a time has been spent on maritime rescues; how to prevent migrants and refugees who are lucky enough to be rescued from the sea without being able to land in a safe port so that all Member States look at another band for weeks. We should be talking, therefore, about how we can speed up landings and ensure that they are not done in countries like Libya, where people's lives run dangerous; how to guarantee access to the right of asylum to rescued people. The same Deputy Director of Frontex acknowledged, moreover, that 80_percent of migrants arriving in Europe are potential asylum seekers. This phrase, said for the same deputy director of Frontex, is to say, the deputy director of the European police, what he sees us say is that we are violating, not fulfilling the right and international agreements, and what is still more important, morality. We should also be working, and above all, to establish a just system of relocation between countries of the north bank, for all those people who have arrived from the south bank. And today, instead of talking about how to give legal guarantees to all the boats that perform rescue jobs, emergency jobs, it turns out we're talking about the right of a sea rescue ship to go out and save lives. We are talking, therefore, about whether people have right to be rescued. Therefore, we find ourselves in a much earlier debate, many steps back from what we would have been finding ourselves right now. If we're here today, it's because the Spanish government has denied Open Arms permission to go out and save lives in the central Mediterranean. A ship that had to go out, already days ago, with hundreds of coats collected, with all the help of the city of Catalonia that had brought them to the port of Barcelona, and which at that time remained paralyzed at the port of Barcelona. The same week that only in forty-four hours have one hundred_seventy people died in the area where Proactive itself should be cooperating; dead who would also weigh on the scale of all those people who today are calling, who today are silent. This blockade, which is not an isolated decision, since, as we know, in the last few days also refused permission to Aita Mari, another rescue ship from the NGO Humanitarian Maritime Rescue. Therefore, it is not a punctual decision for an administrative thing of a ship, but it seems that it is a policy that begins to take effect in the Spanish Government. This supposes, in fact, a change of criteria respects the Aquarius, where the same Mr. Sánchez assured one thing..., that is, he assured not to be the one who actually ended up feeling. He himself, in his mouth, with his words, said: "This from Aquarius is not a marketing operation. So, he's done smelling like a marketing operation. And the raons are as incomprehensible as surrealists. The first is: « If Italy and Malta do not operate ports, neither will we. As countries do not comply with their commitments and international maritime law, neither will we. The second reason is: "It is that these people pose more people to the vessel than they are allowed to. But the point is, when it comes to rescue, what prevails is the same rescue. And so what you can say is that when you're on the high seas and you're rescuing people, what do you have to say to the next person, one day they have all the names of people who follow the Spanish government are allowed into the ship? "No, look, you've already stayed here on the high seas, pulled, because this vessel no longer has the capacity for more people. In reality, however, no one escapes that it is a politically made-up decision with administrative terms, that is clearly conditioned by the growing speeches of populism and the extreme right, or, still worse, what would be by their speeches, and that, in the end, the Spanish Government is doing exactly..., is acting with the same condescension as the Salvini Government. If today we wanted to make this inquiry, therefore, it is, first, to know the position of the Catalan Government in its parliament; second, to make it clear that there are many and many of us who will accompany and face the Proactive Open Arms, whatever their decision and actions derived from this situation, and, third, to announce that this very week we will enter the request for appearance, for one band, of Óscar Camps, and for the other, of Minister Avalos. I don't know, maybe some of us would wish that the volunteers and the volunteers of Proactive today are at home, I don't know, making ganglet, but today, in defense of Open Arms, which is the defense of dignity and that is the defense of life, we would have to find each and every one of us of this chamber, regardless of the color of the party or political feeling, to make them cost. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.239.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the advisor Alfred Bosch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.240.0	Thank you, Mr Wagensberg. A few months ago I was in a refugee camp in the Bekaa valley, refugees who came out of the Libyan conflict. And there I spoke to a lot of people, but also to a lord, of some seventy years, who had left his people, Hama, to Syria and who had left as a result of the war because he could not live there, they were bombarding him, right? And that she couldn't come back and that she couldn't even come back when she knew that her daughter had been killed in a bombardment and couldn't just go to the ground, or leave some flowers at her grave. Clearly, the one who wanted this person was to come back. And what he wanted was to live at home in peace and security, right? Therefore, I think that this may also sometimes seem obvious, but we have to say, that is, the people who migrate, the refugees who leave the house do not think they like. Or go away because they have no other ways, because they have no other obligation, because they are victims of persecution or because they have no other way of surviving, right? Let's make it clear, because sometimes we seem to be talking about people who are soft on whims, and no. We're talking about people who are victims of a very tough situation and who do what they can and who do the only thing they can do to get out of this very tough situation. So, of course, before this tragedy that in humanitarian terms it is completely unacceptable, it is obvious that for ethical reasons we have to move. And they can't allow people who don't want to move what they want to block any human action in this sense. Well, that's what we've seen, so the last few days with the situation of the Open Arms vessel at the port of Barcelona. Since the 8th generation this vessel has been tied here, very little distance. And the Spanish government doesn't give him permission to sail, to go and save lives. Clearly, this is unacceptable. Moreover, Open Arms has been rescued for two years and a half and had never had this problem, ever. And the maritime captainship, who relies on the Ministry of Development of the Spanish Government, sets across, when the rescues are urgent, because more than we are in a particularly delicate time, very cold, the sea is still more deadly than it is in other times. And the captain said, from the Spanish government, that the ship doesn't have certificates of safety. Unpublished. The Open Arms NGO replicates that maritime rescue, so when it is dedicated to rescue tasks it also has these certificates, because the shipwrecks are neither passengers nor crew. And, I insist, we're not talking about pleasure, we're talking about an absolutely different situation. Therefore, the explanations of the Spanish Government are not acceptable. And it's not acceptable that they treat rescue on the high seas as a problem, as a security issue, because the laws of the sea obviously don't go this way and because rescuing people isn't a crime, it's all the opposite, it's an ethical obligation. Therefore, here the Government, the current government of the Socialist Party is acting in a contradictory way with what are the most elementary humanitarian principles, what Open Arms has done for a long time and what they are trying to do now in this case. At the time Pedro Sánchez, one of the first things he did when he acceded to the presidency of the Government, was, therefore, to open the doors to the ship Aquarius with 629 migrants, to whom Malta and Italy had closed the doors. It was a very noble option but at one point this same president of the Spanish Government and of this same Spanish Government is doing all the opposite. I mean, I'm not just saying those ships that save lives anymore, but just don't let them out of port. Clearly, here, then, we have to resort to Freud's psychologist and collaborator, Alfred Adler, when he was trying to hear psychology of these and when he said that it is easier to fight for principles that he does not agree with these principles. And when it is governed, in some cases – and this is not a concrete case – it seems that this is much more complicated. Why is the Socialist Party ruling Spain and the government of Pedro Sánchez running away? So they don't explain it to us clearly. What we see is that it's falling apart. What we do see is that it adds bureaucratic passages that have not been attached until now and that, therefore, obviously, there is a political recast here. Do you see this under the pressure of putting the right and the ultra-right to Spain in the last few days? So it could be – it could be. Is it possible that this has to do with relations with other states in the north or south of the Mediterranean that are also pressing the Spanish Government because for the time being they are putting up these rescue and rescue tasks? It could be. We ask the Spanish government to speak clearly – to speak clearly – and to really tell us what is happening and why they won't let the Open Arms ship operate in the Mediterranean. Also tell them that from the government of Catalonia, therefore, from the first moment we have made it very clear that, all that is in our hands, we must do so. And what we're doing. And, therefore, apart from being interested in the Open Arms case, the department that I have the honor of captivating has already done actions, and clear actions. For example, therefore, collaborate with Open Arms with whom we are constantly talking. So I'm planning a meeting with the same Óscar Camps, who is the representative and spokesman of this NGO, to look into the concrete case of the ship and see what we can do. The Catalan government, you know, was the first to offer the Catalan ports for rescued migrants, the forty-nine who were drifting more than fifteen days to the Mediterranean in two ships that fell from Sea Watch, an NGO based in Germany. And we've done it before, too. And that's what we have the clear intention of turning it into a consistent policy, huh? , and to reach the government agreements that are necessary so that Catalan ports managed by the Government of Catalonia, therefore, are open to saving lives. Because it's our obligation and we can't dodge it, huh? Therefore, this is very clear, and we are already working and we are acting in this sense. So we also made contact with the Ministry of Development, and with the Spanish Government, because they fulfilled their ethical obligations, and they made declarations of intent only to reach the Government: so, that they complete what they said and what they promised, and that they facilitate the task of Open Arms and of all those working in the Mediterranean. It seems to me to be a great initiative, and I can count on our support, for which I would like to invite here the representative of Open Arms, Óscar Camps, or who decides, so as to explain the situation. I think it's important that the Parliament of Catalonia directly knows what's going on and what problems this vessel has, I insist, tied up a lot towards this same chamber. It would be absurd for us to reject this opportunity; I think we should take advantage of it. And I don't think we'd be happy to listen to the minister's explanations, and we hope he'll come here to give explanations about why Open Arms isn't allowed to finish his job as he's done for more than two years. Let him explain it to us; let him explain it to us, because we do not understand it. Apart from that, tell them that we are also working with Open Arms, for example, in countries of origin, which also seems important to me, and, returning to the principle of intervention, when explaining to them the situation of some refugees, in that concrete case, around the Syrian war, tell them that we are working with other places. For example, right now, we will start some actions in Senegal, too, to inform those Senegalese who want to migrate, to inform them of the risks involved in crossing in the conditions in which they are to be done and with paranys and with all the dangers that these people find in the Mediterranean or in other lives. And that, if they are to emigrate, that they think about it, and that, above all – above all – that we can establish safe lives because we do not lose lives in an ignominious way from this sea of ours that we share with other societies, that we respect and that, in the sense of doubt, we want them to see decent lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.241.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the trial of Catalan political prisoners]] [[300-00072/12]] The next question is about the trial of Catalan political prisoners, presented by the Parliamentary Group Republicà. The honourable Member Anna Caula explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.242.0	Thank you, President: "And I will speak of everything that you will not understand, and your eyes will open up to understand and you will make a belief in the calendar days not for the things that are to come, but for all those that are to go on a dark night. So it starts the past 18 years of generation, and it's already dawn, dark night, black, record of those chords that tell us everything: what do these people who call in the morning want? One point more than a long list of all the things that need to be done. The arrests of two mayors, one photographer and thirteen more activists, no court order and no immediate danger to anyone. Verges, that little town in the middle of the Baix Empordà, where all the people know each other, where they have woken up more than once with the punched wheels a long time ago; with brigades of people with their faces covered up, carved in hollow plates, and with bewitched writings on their sides. Encapsulated, in four, do not identify. Crits. By the way. Pheasants usually don't come in handy. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. In the end, the mayor's handcuffed and in a car without distinction, without knowing why. First hours, no one knows what's going on. In the end, above a statement from the TSJ: attention, the High Court of Justice has confirmed this morning that they are police arrests, that they are not detentions ordered by the court. Two days later, the president and the state government gave a more fancy answer, and yesterday, the government delegate, Mrs. Cunillera, to Els Matins on TV3, looked at how to respond with a certain consistency, without achieving it, to questions about this issue. And, in case it could not be more scandalous, today we read that Girona's number 4 jutjat, which carries the case, did not order the arrests, and that, at the time of the arrests, the case was filed and the jutjat reiterates that it had not ordered the National Police to investigate. Therefore, at this hour, we still have the open question: who gave the order? What's the motive, now? What's the point? Last week's arrests are very modest in political detention, repression, camouflage with the anti-terrorist struggle in the Basque Country of years back. And here, which I have made clear, of violence, there has not been, except for the imaginary of who wrote the parallel report of the independence claim, of more than two million people in the street claiming, peacefully, familiarly, a better future for their people, in the name of the Catalan Republic. Here we do not provoke, we demand a legitimate right, the right of self-determination. We are ahead of the doors of one of the most unworthy judges that the Spanish State will live in a time of democracy. The ex-president of the Generality and President of the Republican Left, Oriol Junqueras, told us a little while ago: "The judgment and judgment will weigh like a disgrace to the history of Spain, and when you look at it with perspective you will see that it was a mistake to act on the criminal road in place of the political road. Let's go back to the question we asked ourselves before: why now? What's the point? Because we believe that they are not only violating themselves and pursuing the rights of political representatives, but that repression has already gone further and is seeking to frighten the entire population. It's a phase more of this repressive act devised for the State and that shows no differences depending on who occupies the Moncloa. Because even though you seem random, we don't have to confuse it with improvisation. Who wants to generate terror plays with this randomness, and wants to make you feel vulnerable, wants to make everyone else feel that you can be tomorrow. Because I don't respond to objective actions, because it generates legal insecurity and soul. Today he is a master, tomorrow he is a singer, today he is a mayor of the CUP, before yesterday they were undertaking the most powerful civil leaders of our society, in Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez. Today, a titular and tomorrow it can be you, or you, or maybe me. And if you don't see a ten-way to the independence movement, you just have to compare the cab fare, at hours of the day, and many more before, you might already have the same charges as the independence movement. I've been searching the dictionary for the word "terrorism," which I'm going to read now and until nine is literal reading. Obre comets: "The word terrorism, or the specific expression of state terrorism, when defining government actions, is used to define a type of violence use in a systematic and often indiscriminate way to achieve political objectives. Condition the behaviour of civil society or clarify accounts for decisions taken and irreversible. The term State terrorism is also sometimes used in cases of flagrant violations of human rights by the government of a state, especially in the case of the use of paramilitary groups or irregular forces in the persecution of certain ethnic, social, religious or ideological groups. Tanco comets. That every one of them did his reflection. All the evidence up to now should alert any citizen who considers his civil rights, but in Spain it is difficult for anyone to move forward because the parties have gone to Catalonia, and xenophobia is beginning to be structural, and it is very dangerous, because one day we are taking him to intransigence, no one escapes from Catalanophobia, not even Mr. Albert Rivera, to whom the taxi drivers have attached to the cry of "Caltan of shit, some facts that we take advantage of to condemn and show our solidarity. Three centuries of political impossion have created enough autoodia to prevent us from accepting that it is in Catalonia where, today, there is a first line of defense of the freedoms of everyone, which we have always identified with Europe. That Catalonia has an opening respect for diversity, an esteem for a culture and a language, and for everyone who shares love for our country. Therefore, it is difficult for us to hear the equidistance of some group of this chamber before the Abus of the State the last decires. In defense of civil and political rights, whether or not you are there, or you can turn you into a stone card decoration. The arrests of last week in Girona mark a certain point of inflection in the repressive drift of the State, and water this socialist government, in particular. A touch of inflection too hard in a quality sense, for the shape and for the background. For form: country police without visible identification, and encapsulated; untimely timetables, by court order. They are elements that talk about exceptionality, urgency, flagrant crime, risk of escape. That is to say, all the contrary of what the persecuted parties and the capture of the persecuted citizens indicate. For the form and the background is an act that returns us to the darkest period of the Franco dictatorship. When we cannot count on justice based on the presumption of innocence and respect for the rights of the citizens before the abuse of power and justice in particular. It is security that must guarantee freedom, and not harness it. In a simple case of supposed public disorder, it is incomprehensible that there is no recourse to the usual procedures of relationship between justice and citizens. In the case of the two mayors detained, the issue is even harder, given that it is democraticly elected institutional representatives, in relation to whom legal action should still be more curious and respectful. Let's make it clear: when a mayor is being persecuted for his political activity, he is being persecuted and criminalizing the citizens he represents. When our civil and political leaders are judged and pressed: Junqueras, Bassa, Turull, Romeva, Forcadell, Forn, Rull, Sànchez and Cuixart, they are pressed and all the citizens to whom they represent are judged. But there is an additional message: police action without judicial order bears full responsibility for the decision on the execution, on the Minister of the Interior, and, by extension, on the same president of the Government. No, gentlemen, a state of law doesn't act that way. Spain will always end up pacifying the deep state that acts over the right, and it is sad to note that so many governments, whether it is PP or PSOE, because everyone acts the same. Perhaps someone had the idea or the need to prove that the Spanish Government did not come to independence, perhaps yes, or perhaps no, or perhaps simply, the present Government does not control those invisible structures of the State that are not democratically chosen or must answer before the citizenry, those that simply inherit the witnesses of the 78th Regime, summarizing: the State's harpsichords. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] The time has come for the Spanish government to decide: repression and persecution, or respect and dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.243.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.244.0	And from here I would continue with the second intervention. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.245.0	All right. It's the turn, now, for the vice president of the government. Mr. Pere Aragonès, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.246.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Caula, certainly, in her intervention she referred to the arrests of last week in Girona, some arrests that there is a shadow of a very big doubt that has to be clarified, and that we have not yet made clear, and that every new fact we know confirms that here there are things that have to be explained very clearly. Which has to be explained very clearly why, when a case or investigation was provisionally filed, a judicial investigation that had been entrusted to the Mosso d'Esquadra, this provisional case, then turns out that the National Police, on its own initiative, in particular the Intelligence Brigade decides to resolve, for their own band, the reasons that led to the provisional case of this case, and is dedicated to making some identification steps with the hardest of the measures that can be taken by a security guard, which is the deprivation of a person's freedom of movement, that is, arrest. Before detention there are many ways, if it is considered that certain determined persons, presumably, have participated in certain facts that, presumably, can be characterized as criminal, there are many ways of resolving this and not going to make arrests for alleged public disorder that, in any case, refer to certain facts that passed three months ago. Therefore, neither the temporary proximity to the facts, nor the gravity of the alleged crime committed, nor the procedural situation of the investigation justify that it is carried out without these detentions and that it is fassin, obviously, not in the manner in which it was to be done, with the identification of the police, but rather that it is fassin..., in some cases, obviously, in which there is a totally justified confusion: in a municipality with Verges, which has been object of a systematic attack on the part of the extreme right, punching the wheels of the vehicles of the vehicles because they are parked in a municipality where there are many stars......................................................................................................................................................................................... And where the mayor was the object of threats; there are four unidentified hooded people who are trying to reduce him to the exit of the house, right? But not just that. It also produces, in the case of another mayor, Mayor Dani Cornellà, Mayor of Celrà, and a photojournalist and thirteen other people. In the end, we didn't get clear water, and it looks like it's going to take a lot to get clear water from who ordered it, and why, who didn't know, who gave the permit to make these arrests, and what they're pursuing, right? And this we find ourselves in a context where it seems that it has impunity, there is a climate of impunity at the time of pursuing certain political options, and of impunity for pursuing independence, and that when there is a police or judicial investigation against independence it seems that the principles that should guide the action of a democratic police or a judicial system..., that in order to be a judicial system it does not mean that it is not object of criticism, of course it can be criticized, the judicial system, and of course that in a democracy in which there is also counterweight it is object of scrutiny by the other democratic powers. So, we find, obviously, that a whole series of actions that are very irregular are due to the end, right? And this is on the mark... and the more clear, harsher, more dramatic expression, we find it in the trial of political prisoners, in which the State is part of the judicial process, in which through the prosecution, the advocacy of the State, we have seen how clearly it is positioned in favor of this repression, and where obviously we will not remain silent, we will be mobilized, we will be supporting these companies and companies that will face this judgment and explain what is going on, and we will explain that the accusations of rebellion and siege are totally disproportionate, totally disproportionate to those that we do not look at reality with the otters of the conservative Spanish nationalism, and that we will obviously pursue the accusations of rebellion and of sediction that are totally disproportionate to the principle of criminality, that we do not look at reality with the meres of conservative nationalism, and that we will obviously persecute the principle of the principle of criminality, which is rather preferring to the principle of criminality. Obviously, we are convinced that the mechanisms in the international human rights treaties, and in this concrete case the Council of Europe, the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights, will allow us to correct this. Unfortunately, if the sentence is not absolute, if this accusation based on political criteria is confirmed, the Strasburg sentence will come too late. In fact, one day in prison is too late to reverse the damage it causes to people, to society and, obviously, to families, and when we win, obviously, we demand compensation and reparation to the Spanish State. But, obviously, if the objective is that independence will end, if the objective is that independence will not move forward, then the objective is that independence will fail, because not only on 21 December has an independent majority been revalidated in Parliament, but that more than two million people who in Catalonia are defending the independence of Catalonia have disappeared, that we are defending Catalonia as an independent state in the form of a republic, because we believe that it is the best structure, it is the best tools to serve our people and to be able to provide our society with institutions that protect their rights and guarantee equal opportunities and bring the best prosperity to this country. It's self-governing, it's being able to decide for ourselves with society. All of them, all of them citizens. And, obviously, here we have seen, in this framework of the Spanish State, like all the institutions of the State... Someone before said: "The institutions of the State must act as counterweights to one another. So, there they all acted like a heavy weight on Catalan democracy, a heavy weight against the will of the citizenry. And the first institution of the State is the head of the State, King Philip VI, who on October 3th certified, gave the royal blessing to ''for them we feel in criticism for the communication media the weeks ahead of October 1st. A king who resigned from his representative role to clearly stand in favour of a political option that is Spanish nationalism. A king, obviously, who, as his title indicates, has not passed through the ballot boxes and, therefore, does not have democratic legitimacy from our point of view. Therefore, we find ourselves in a context in which the struggle for rights and freedoms is more necessary than ever before, and this Government is determined to fight for the rights and freedoms of all citizens, in a context in which, in the name of estabilité, in the name of a restrictive interpretation of the law and of the Constitution and of criminal law, there is a clear restriction of the rights and freedoms of citizens, and which always has a double yardstick to measure: independence, stuck; with the extreme right, parliamentary agreements. And therefore, obviously, we will always defend rights and freedoms. That is why we have created the Office of Civil and Political Rights, which is already doing a great deal of collecting from a whole series of violations of the rights of the citizens of this country, and which obviously has the open doors to follow, and to do so independently of the political options that feel attacked by this violation of civil and political rights, and which will clearly present the results of this task of compiling this map of repression and also attacks on political freedom, freedom of expression, and the ideological freedom that has occurred in our country. Therefore, before a context of retaliation of rights and freedoms, which is not only of the Spanish State, which is passing to other places in Western Europe, Eastern Europe and Western democracies, we must turn Catalonia into an area of rights and freedoms, and this Government is convinced that this is not only possible, but also necessary, and that it is committed to doing so. Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.247.0	Thank you, Vice President. For the answer, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.248.0	Thank you, Vice President. He was grabbing the wire, where we left it. We said that the moment that this Spanish government has to sort, it is up to it to sort if it offers us repression and persecution or respect and dialect. If there's no respect for us getting out of the dialog table. The Spanish government has to sort out if it does the race to the extreme right and to whom it deals with it– Ciutadans and PP – and stops playing only to ‘that sees the wolf, as the only argument, or offers a sincere and courageous bet for progressism, for respect for civil and political rights, for respect for the right to decide, for self-determination of Catalans, and to play the game with democratic tools. Espanya's credibility is at risk in this trial. It is also said by MEPs who denounce the pre-trial detention. Now you can decide which image you want to donate to the outside. We get to a crutch that can mark whatever it is in the proper years. The other day, my neboda asked me to explain the three-cart count. After the effort to search my brain for him, I remembered him. Pedro Sánchez often says that we do not have to finish trenches, but do politics. If this is his policy, it is the same as that of the PP; if it is not, I repeat myself in what he said before: the Deep State is passing through the world. For this reason, it must be said that today, whether or not he agrees with independence, Catalonia has one of the largest and most worthy trenches in defence of civil rights. Denouncing last week's police bust, we're denouncing state abuses. Defending the detainees, we're defending everyone's rights. The youngest and youngest family trapper chose to build a ball house. We don't want to participate in the construction of a ball house. We listened, to the conviction of the People's Alliance – and, I'm sorry, of the PP – that this weekend was celebrated, as Vargas Llosa referred to nationalism as one of the worst pests of humanity. Ah, that's right, I've been doing it since a scener with a giant screen where they'd let a huge Spanish flag wave. It's a classic: get emboldened with the Spanish flag while accusing others of being nationalists and asserting yourself as a non-nationalist or patriot, a miracle that is possible only because you have a state close to your back. This makes your nationalism invisible, it's banal. It is normal, in this there are no divisions, also do Ciutadans and Vox, and that, if they are able to store labels, they also avoid defining themselves as "extreme right". We also escorted Pablo Casado, who said: "We will reform the Criminal Code to re-criminalize the call for an illegal referendum. Then what are we staying at? Today's not a crime yet, but there are new entrepreneurs and a judge to start. Once again it is clear to us that what we face is a judge of a report created in measure, a judge of democracy. This week, the Romeva Councillor has just published a book that we encourage everyone to read – the culture of works and visions – which brings us his words voluntarily silenced for the Spanish State. Romeva made a criticism of how the State's judicial process, which qualifies as revenge and to be totally subject to the Spanish unit, was completed at the length of the book. For all this, he reiterates that the objective of his defence will be to face the court, which begins in a few weeks, from an eminently political point of view. And he makes a strong denunciation of the lack of separation of powers. "We are not going to defend ourselves from anything," he cried, "to what extent it adds: "To make a reference is not a crime; to prevent it by force, yes. From here we also saw a wide list of European entities that have supported and claimed the injustice of all this process. We could highlight Human Rights Watch, the Prague College, we see the International PEN communique, and, by luck, this list is long, broad and plural, which shows the magnitude of the tragedy. The effects of what happens to repression, what happens when one day you're up and you don't analyze what you've lost today, what happens when one day you're up and you analyze everything that's been torn down for the last two years. Day by day one doesn't know that he's been smudged between his hands. Today I was told five centimeters of shirt, before yesterday it was four. It's still subtle, but today I'm cold, very cold, because I don't have a shirt left. They stripped me of all my civil rights and my freedom. Where are they? How'd it go? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Tanmateix, this tramuntanada that we're up from the south...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.249.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.250.0	...of those who are peacemakers...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.251.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.252.0	...with Vox to take over the government at any price, telling us we're probably ready to go through a lot of cold.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.253.0	Congresswoman, thank you, Congresswoman. For the reply, the Deputy President of the Government has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.254.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. Member of Parliament, we agree that it is precisely the strength of democracy, that it is the strength of the construction of the vast majority that will allow us to build this house of stone, let us say, very strongly, that it is the force that will hold up the attacks against the rights and freedoms of the citizens. He has made reference to nationalism, and it's funny to see how many times the most they assign to others tell them that they are nationalists are the most nationalists of all. And, in fact, today's peril, in our most immediate context, in the European context of nationalisms, is not that demand of people like Catalan, that they defend the right to participate directly in the institutions of the European Union with an independent state, but that it is the nationalisms of the state, the peril it is the nationalisms of the state: the one made by the National Front to France, the one made by Vox, Citizens in the Spanish State, the one made by Trump to the United States, the one made by UKIP to the United Kingdom, etc.; and we could go about putting all the corruption of nationalist parties of the state that precisely what they pose is in peril the fonal values of the European project. In the Spanish State, this nationalism of state will love a good part of the powers of the State. And in concrete terms, one of them, the judiciary, the dome of which is still with this political culture of organization, with this judicial culture, in which there was not, after Francoism, a profound reform of the judicial system, yet today it is as at the last value of the state of law..., and I do not say, it is not a complaint, it is not an exaggeration: it is what the President of the Supreme Court and President of the General Council of the Judiciary, who says that the state of law in the Spanish State is as at the last value, that is, as the most important of all, the unity of Spain; not the rights of the citizens, not the values of democracy, not the freedoms of people, not the freedoms of such people. And we have proven, as, when it is considered that the unit of the State is in danger, it is precisely to do this: to make bold, to make this alert to navigators and, therefore, to try to defeat from the judiciary what are democratic intentions, which are legitimate electoral programs, which are political proposals, which they only have heard, which we are only willing to implement and which can only be produced if they have the democratic support of the citizenry. And the independenceist majority in this Parliament is proof that this democratic support exists. There's a division of functions. Some elements of the more judicial right, with very political arguments, therefore push this case in the Supreme Court. It is absolutely hallucinating that it allows the popular accusation in many of these processes to be in the hands of a party of extreme right and to be admitted, and that in changing some other forces, from the alternative left or from the anti-capitalist left, they have wanted to act in some other procedures in relation to complaints that are made in the field of financial or banking markets, it is said that they have an unlegitimate interest and that they are issuing unorbited bonds; when Vox is, that does not happen. I mean, somebody has to explain that, too. But there is a distribution of papers: some, therefore, make this accusation; others, from a Spanish nationalist visit, from the prosecutor's office, carry out other actions; some others practice detentions without judicial authority, and the right, the extreme right, which makes it take 'justice for his hand, until and when justice doesn't give them the right. But precisely today – and with this I would like to finish – those who fill their mouths in this Parliament to respect judicial decisions last week, which we knew the courts had determined that the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-23-2301.255.0	Thank you, Vice President. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. [[Correction noteTo the DSPC-P 35, of 20 December 2018, to page 19, forty-one line:It is said «7 abstentions to say «17 abstentions.]]
