ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. I nail them to vagrant occupying their escons. And let's start the session. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. I, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, will be substantiated this morning, as the first item of the order of the day of this session. [[Motion following the question to the Government on the political situation after the elections of November 10, 2019 (withdrawn)]] [[302-00172/12]] So I am sure that the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group has withdrawn the motion following the question to the Government on the political situation after the elections of November 10, 2019, which appeared as 21 on the order of the day. On the other hand, it also states that, according to the request submitted by the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group for Progress and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Unity Candidate - Crida Constituent, the proposals, according to the one established by Article 83.3 of the Rules, the alteration of the order of the day of this plenary session, so that point 24, relating to the Movement subsequent to the inquiry on the management of public services, may be substantial in the place of point 18, relating to the Movement subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the social situation in Catalonia. And on the other hand, that point 18 was substantiated to the place of 24. Can this change be approved, this alteration of the order of the day, by consent? Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right, so that's how the order of the day is changed. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before I begin, I must inform you that, according to the official data of the Department of Interior, unfortunately, last 2nd of December died murdered at the Prat de Llobregat the ninth death victim of this year for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women, and to vet for the record and memory of these victims. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] I would also like to inform you that, as a compliment to what the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia establishes, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, 1,239 people have died in the Mediterranean since the month of generation. [[Ask the government about the lawsuit to make the casino of Hard Rock in Vila-seca and Salou]] [[310-00264/12]] Let's move on to the first point of the order of the day, which are the questions with oral answer from the Government. The first question is about the license to make the casino Hard Rock to Vila-seca and Salou. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy lady Natalia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.2.0	Good morning. Counseller, as you know, in May 2018 was published the resolution authorizing the installation and operation of a gambling casino at Vila-seca and Salou's CRT. This application provided that, within a maximum period of one year and a half, the undertaking should have submitted all the documentation required for the award of the 18th May. Counselor Pere Aragonès, we ask you three very concrete questions: Has Hard Rock presented in shape and finish the Development Plan built, as well as the financing contracts of the operation? How many prorogations did Hard Rock request for the presentation of the requirements that contemplated the award of the gaming license? And finally: how many prorogations did the General Directorate of Taxes and Gambling, from its consultancy, grant to this company?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of Mr Pere Aragonès, Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.4.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Member of the Commission. - On the 5th of December, the deadline was now over. And according to the Law of Procedure administered, there was a petition on the part of the interested party, the company you mentioned, so that there was an extension. And according to the law, therefore, this extension has been made for a fixed term that has already been made public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.5.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.6.0	Thank you, counselor, for your answer. I understand, for what you're saying, Hard Rock has only presented an extension? Because I was asking him how many prorogations he had asked for. And, basically, you know perfectly well that the CUP - Creed We have never been in favour of buying toxic land from the Box with public money; but despite that, you insist and insist on pushing this operation forward, which we might say failed. The former government of Junts per el Si, when it resized this project, from its department, claimed that they had a strict, credible and viable calendar. And three years later, that's not it. What is going on, Counselor, with this project in which many expectations have been put? We believe that this obsession or this will to continue with this project is not appropriate for the territory, or for the working people of this territory, or for the needs that are now at the public level. It's obviously a covert operation to divert public funds from private interests. They did, they had to make a generous reduction of the game tax, cut to size for the project. This operation would carry a high financial risk to the Generality, and although this continues. Even though you do not know the resolution of the content raised by the ancient landowners, you continue to insist on this project. And, while the obvious negative externalities of a business model based on precarious work places and a business model based on promoting ludopathy, you continue with this project. In short, all the harmful character for the public era, for the aspirations of the territory, for the salvation of the users, advisor Pere Aragonès, continue to make possible the installation of the largest casino in Europe at the CRT...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.7.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.8.0	...of Vila-seca i Salou?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.9.0	...time is up; thank you. To answer again, the Deputy President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.10.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, I believe that what you are doing is, from a concrete point of view, that it is this project..., try to make it clear that this is the economic development model of the country we are defending. No, the economic development model of the country that we have defended is a plural model, which must have everything, focused, therefore, on the industry, also focused on jobs places with added value, jobs places that also allow to increase the wages of workers in this country. And, in any case, the project that has been planned to make Vila-seca and Salou is not a central project, but a project that complements, that can complement the tourist offer that currently exists. You have said one thing that is not certain, that here there will be a great deal of expenditure on the part of the Generality, there will be commitments, a risk of financing from the Generality in this operation; and more than that. Our compromise is that this project, which is a project of private nature, if it takes forward, does not involve a euro of public expenditure, and especially what is the transaction on land ownership, which is a procedure to be done because we have to have the availability of land, in the end, therefore, because we can pull forward. Therefore, not a public euro of the Generality in this operation. When this project came in because there was a change in the law and the different regulations in 2014 in this Parliament, I, who was a Member of this Parliament and who brought this bill to represent my group and who did not support it in all its aspects..., we did lay down some elements that are now on the table and that were achieved by the past Government, on behalf of Vice President Junqueras and Councillor Josep Rull. In the first place: resize the project to a scale that is comparable to the territory; and we are talking about a casino license alone, when in its moment there were sis. Second place: put, therefore, more guarantees in the field of prevention of gambling addictions, and the same reduction in the number of casinos is not a good show. And thirdly, it's not a public euro, it's a private investment that's going to have a return and a private cost.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.11.0	Vice President, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.12.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.13.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the payment of aid from the common agricultural policy]] [[310-00262/12]] The next question is about the payment of aid from the common agricultural policy. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francesc Viaplana. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.14.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor Jordan, of the great blocks of action that is moving to the European Union, that of the common agricultural policy, better known as the CAP, is surely among the most important. For the Catalan agricultural sector, they are also vitally important aids, and in view of the diversity that you need in size planning, which covers the various models of agricultural exploitation present in our territory. Each model adapts to the specific conditions of its surroundings: it is not the same a high mountain farm as another one on the plane, or one of watering that one dry, and they are all of vital importance to our country. I am for their contribution to food sovereignty; I am for ensuring quality, healthy and safe food; I am for the preservation of the environment, and I am also for fighting against rural depopulation. For all these reasons, it is essential that agricultural policy and aid planning are hand in hand with the sector. One of the sector's requests for aid is that, apart from the speed with which aid is to be granted, the Administration also remains diligent in its payments, since, as in any company, the uncertainty in the entry of aid has made day-to-day management very complex. It is essential that strategic plans be established at territorial level, with the aim of being able to manage aid more effectively and effectively. Catalonia needs to be able to define its own agricultural policies. The diversity of sectors in the Spanish State makes it impossible to establish the conditions for CAP subsidies from a centralised point of view. The new CAP needs to be modernised and simplified, with policies that promote dynamic rural areas and ensure the continuity of a food sector for our country and its territorial balance. For all this, Counselor, what analysis does the Government make regarding the payment of CAP aid and what is the strategy for the proper period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of Mrs Teresa Jordà, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.16.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congressman, very good morning to all of you. The aid from the common agricultural policy, as you know, has two very clear objectives: the first is to improve agricultural income – vital –, and the second is to contribute to the environment, and also to contribute to sustainability. In fact, two years ago, two years later, this department, after doing all the controls – which I'm telling you, they're not a few – so it pays at the end of the year 95 percent of what we say separate help, huh? This means that a total of EUR 214 million has been paid to 44,000 beneficiaries. I also tell you – let me hide, without any petulance – that there is no, I assure you, other territories so diligent at the time of payment. The rest of the aid, the direct partners, that are this 5_per_cent, we pay for the first quarter of 2020, also, say, within the established terms. However, I would also like to take this question today in order to put in value that these aid, the aid from the CAP, help us to put in value the final agricultural production of our country; this is important. Some help that is so necessary, but also insufficient; insufficient basically for the continuity of the activity, and also to falsify the people to the territory. It is well known that agrarian income is a very, very, very tense income, tense for the low-income and, obviously, also for the competence of other countries, of third countries, through international agreements. Said this, too, and answer it, tell it from the department – but not only from the department, but also from the agricultural organizations, in short – we have a very clear country agreement, which is precisely, in the line of what you said, regionalizing the foundations and territorializing its strategic plans; in short, having a Catalan strategic plan. This is not an invention; this allows us to do so under European rules, and in fact we explain it all the time: we have explained it to Madrid, we have explained it to the Minister, we have explained it to the Secretary of State, we have also explained it to him in his parliamentary office, we have also explained it to him through statements to the European Parliament... We are not tired of explaining it: it is not an invention, to make a strategic Catalan plan. And basically it's not an invention, not just because it allows regulation, but because we're not in a condition to re-acsolate or assume those re-centralizing policies that get bogged down from Madrid. Basically, because we always get out there lose, and I assure you that we are not on condition, not only for the sector, but also for the country, that our pages, pages, rowers and rowers are still losing there. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about minority diseases]] [[310-00263/12]] The next question is about minority malalities. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Caula. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.18.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, a single case among thousands, only one among thousands, one. But do you know who they are, these thousands? "They are the ones who help me to follow, they are the ones who never leave you alone, the ones who are left alone, the new ones, the ones who seek answers, the ones who always get up, the ones who never stop growing up, the ones who give their hands, the ones who fight, the only ones: you, the minorities who make the majority. I've always enjoyed the spots, the announcements, the ability they have of creativity to transmit a lot in a very short time, seconds. "One in a thousand, only one in a thousand. We talk about minority malalties: a 5-per-cent prevalence, but that transferred to the Catalan population serious 350,000 people affected. One. But you know who they are, these thousands? They're the ones who help me follow. This is the spot of the La Marató de TV3 Foundation, which will last this week's end, to which we must thank the great task that it does, above all disclosure, very important, and the possibility of recapitulating an important assumption addressed to the investment in research. « They are the ones who never leave you alone. But we can't conform. The Marathon adds, socializes, gives to know realities sometimes invisible, but this does not have to be a smokescreen to forget that our goal is to maintain, improve and enhance our public health system. « They are the ones who are coming, the new ones. Because they are more than seven thousand difficult-to-diagnostic diseases; together, therefore, an important public health problem with high care complexity. A whole turn. « They are the ones who seek answers. In Catalonia, we are pioneers in the detection and treatment of some of them, and we are an important part of the European reference network, despite the interbanks of the Ministry of Health and their inefficiencies. There is a lack of connection with the Spanish State procedure. It is necessary to require the State to be modern and adaptable. It should be a key piece facilitating the gear, and not obstructing it. « They are the ones who do not stop growing. We can continue to advance in the treatments, given that 40 percent of the malalities still have no solution. "They who fight. You. Minorities that make up the majority. But also adding a majority the screenplay is complex, because it doesn't stop being individual, and it can't be oblivious. Will counsel, do you share the importance of expert centres and the multidisciplinary, individualized and comprehensive approach?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.19.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.20.0	And can you explain to us what you're doing...? [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.21.0	To answer the word has the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.22.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Congresswoman, good morning to everyone and everyone. So yes, I share, obviously, this essentiality, I share the Pla de salut de Catalunya precisely puts as one of its priorities the attention to people with minority ills. And we do it by admiring what the European Union is doing, by telling us that we have to do and what the same professionals tell us, that they are pioneers in our country, and they are present in these European networks. We are creating a network of clinical expert units in our country. These networks bring together different diseases of the same type to share precisely this knowledge; knowledge, in some minority diseases, which is essential to be able to work not only in search, but also improve the quality of life of people who suffer from them. Because we do not forget, as you said, that 40 per cent still does not take care, and therefore we must look for this quality of life for the people who suffer it. The model of minority malalities that the Health Department has, with its Commission Advisor of Malalties Minorities, where there are professionals of great experts of our centers, where there are associations of patients to the same commission, formats and deciding with us, where there is obviously the Department of Treball, Social Centers and Families and the Department of Education, in this Commission Advisor of Malalties Minorities..., seeks to work for a quick access and coordinated to all the treatments, essential thing, and, obviously, to keep the diagnosis as early as possible, because we do not forget that many of these people delay years to be able to have their diagnosis. And above all, now, the main challenge is to work for this therapeutic, individualized therapeutic and multidisciplinary plan of our centers. We complement this double vision: one vision is the expert of the professionals and the other vision is community care, attention to the territories, also the attention centered on the person. These XUECs that we have, that will already be five with these two new ones that we inaugurate, give answer to more than a thousand of these seven_ thousand malalties, a thousand absolutely coordinated in Europe. We are present at seven of the twenty-four European networks; that's a lot. Eight of these seven networks are led by us, by our centres and professionals in our country, and in the following seven affiliated centres. That's important. And I want to highlight the support for these families, the support for these people, and that's why we also work for their training and involvement in the system.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.23.0	Counselor, time is up... [[Greetings.]] Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the Hard Rock project to Vila-seca i Salou]] [[310-00261/12]] The next question is about the Hard Rock project to Vila-seca and Salou. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, Mr David Cid. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.24.0	Good morning, Counselor. From Catalonia to Comú We want to know what is the real viability of the Hard Rock Cafe project, after it has requested a new extension before the casino license. What's the real calendar with this new runaway coming in?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.25.0	To answer the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.26.0	Yes, thank you, President. Members, Members..., Mr. Member, what you have described as "the running away from us is nothing more than a prorogation that has been asked and stuck with the administrative regime that regulates the prorogations and that, from this prorogation, it has to be resolved, logically, the last one goes through so that this project shoots away; a project in which I know that you basically disagree but from the Government of the Generality we gather, as it is a good project to strengthen our tourist offer within the framework of a diversified economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.28.0	Counselor, we believe the time has come to be clear and transparent. We believe that we are ahead of a failed project, basically because neither Hard Rock nor the Caixa nor in this case the Incasòl agree on who should bear the economic costs in the event of claims on land by the ancient owners, and I, what we do not understand is why at these times the Generalitat is still playing the monopoly and might already be able to explain why the Incasól, why the Generalitat has to pay some land that is owned by the Caixa, is to say, allocate 120_million euros for, then, selling this case to Hard Rock Cafe. You can truly guarantee that this will not cost us a euro of public money or the citizens of Catalonia to be the payers of the Box and, in this case, of Hard Rock Cafe. Look, I want to ask him two very concise questions. You think it's compatible, in this case, with the fight against ludopathy with the biggest casino in Europe, where there are a thousand_two hundred dark buttock machines and more than a hundred game tables? Do you know what the fighting entities say about the ludopathy of this project? And a second question I want to ask you: do you think that this project, which has a great environmental impact, with CO2 emissions – certainly, they have quantified them–, with water consumption, is compatible with Catalonia's Climate Change Law? Is it compatible with the climate-emergency struggle? You think it wouldn't be more consistent in the fight against climate change and less I posture at COP25, which I think is what the Government of the Generality is doing in this case? Miri, we're clear. We do not want a low-cost country, we do not want a low-cost country, which is the country of Hard Rock Cafe, which is the country of BCN World, which is the country of Ryanair and the agreements that tank, for example, the airport of Girona; we want a just, sustainable and green country, and this country that we want is perfectly incompatible with the project of Hard Rock Cafe. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.29.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.30.0	Thank you, President. The government does not play the monopoly, absolutely; the government creates conditions because certain strategic projects can pull forward, and this is a long time ago. The Vice-President has explained this before, he passed a law, the 6/14, in which they introduced conditions, for example, to combat ludopathy, with the need for part of the taxes, therefore, vaguely dedicated to fighting against this malalty, against this addiction, as well as other requirements fruit of the same parliamentary debate. We also threw in front of an urban master plan, an urban master plan that perfectly delimits what can be done and what cannot be done and, therefore, light and stenographers throughout urban development. And, finally, an international competition for the auctioning of casino licenses that passed so that, effectively, the companies they applied, that they demanded, therefore, could dispose of this license of casino has no availability of the solo. This is why Incasòl signed a purchase option that we have always qualified for – and we have always explained, and here I have explained – instrumentally; it is the figure that allowed companies, therefore, to apply this casino license and will not involve any public expenditure on the part of Incasòl or the Government of the Generality. You also refer to the climate emergency. Miri, I don't know if you know that there is a PEIN on the side of the CRT, the PEIN of the Sequia Major, there is a space of Xarxa Natura 2000 and, therefore, all urban planning, which has been combining the petrochemical industry and the tourist industry for some time now, has also taken into account these requirements and, therefore, in urban development, both on the part of urbanism and construction are taking into account all these themes that you say; obviously, that of energy efficiency, that of efficiency in water use, precisely at Camp de Tarragona is where we are carrying out regeneration projects in water use and also...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.31.0	Counselor, he's running out of time... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] Thank you very much. [[Ask the Government about public employment activities for the integration of disabled people into the labour market]] [[310-00268/12]] The next question is about public employment activities aimed at integrating disabled people into the labour market. And the formula, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mrs Marta Madrenas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.32.0	Thank you, President. Benvolgut President; advisors, advisors, and company of the chamber. Benvolgut Counsellor Puigneró, Catalonia has a total of 551,440 people with varying degrees of disability, of whom 57,647 have intellectual disability. I believe that we will agree – I am sure that we will agree – that one of the balls of balls that must form the joint of the civil, political, economic and social rights of our country must be that of the closeness of the equality of the joint of the citizenry. When we refer to people with disabilities, this close to equality must go much further than non-discrimination would be. The right to non-discrimination is certainly a theoretical, abstract mass, I think insufficient. I understand that if we are to be truly effective in terms of equality, this right to non-discrimination must be completed, and it must be completed with a right, which is certainly more pragmatic if we are to be - if we are to be - allowed to have positive discrimination; it is to be said, with a right to be beneficiaries, to be benefited by a combination of concrete measures, capable of guaranteeing independence, integration and full participation in the social life of persons with disabilities. If we refer specifically to the right to work of persons with disabilities, a society that wants to recognise itself as a worthy society must recognize the right of persons with disabilities to work in equality with others, because working is one of the foundational pillars of personal and social development of any person, but for persons with disabilities even more, not precluding this collection, especially cases of intellectual disability, suffers from a very difficult job placement. It is essential that public administrations, in this case the Generality, show and set an example to the rest of the workforce as to how this social responsibility is to be exercised and also involve itself in this job placement. We know that his department is absolutely involved, we know his DIL program well, a pioneer program, very well articulated, for which people with intellectual disabilities are working in the Generality, and from Juntes per Catalunya we would like to know who are the last actions of his department, of his consulting department...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.33.0	Congresswoman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.34.0	To work integration... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.35.0	Thank you. To answer the words of the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puignero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.36.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Congresswoman. This is a government that has been working since the first day of this legislature with the objective of recovering labor rights and the rights of Generality workers who have been hard lost, huh? during the time of the crisis and, therefore, this has been a priority. But we also have priority, in this case, to create ourselves right and, above all, also to make visible what we are doing, huh? You mentioned today one of the programs we have, for example, in the field of integration of people with intellectual disabilities, which obviously we have to guarantee these two principles, the principle of equality, of opportunity, as well as the principle of non-discrimination, and that is why we have this specific integration program in the field of Administration for people with intellectual disabilities. Let's say that this is a pioneering program, that it does, say, from the year 2003 that works, that it is an example for other administrations, but that we have now given it a new impulse, and I want to remember that precisely in September the same president of the Generalitat, in a solemn act to the Palau of the Generalitat, therefore, it was announced that we would be and would make extensive this program not only in the specific field of Administration but also in the whole field of the public sector. Therefore, this is also a measure that we have now. But we've almost got two more. Another was also the one that refers to the call for 151 new places for which it does the field of subordinates, precisely to promote specifically, in the field of persons with disabilities, the opportunity to work at the Administration. And finally, and this is a few days ago, we have renewed the agreement with the Catalan Down Syndrome Foundation, an act that we also did to the Palau of the Generality, it was a convention that made many years that it was not renewed and that, therefore, with the presence of the same President of the Generality, that I must say that he is a very involved person in all this subject related to the field of integration of persons with intellectual disabilities in the field of the Generality, so we are working. In fact, in this sense, we have received a recognition not only from the Business Association of Social Economy, in this sense, for the work we are doing and because in the background what we want is a country that works and continues to work for the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.37.0	Counselor, time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.38.0	Job opportunities... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.39.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the territorial dynamization strategy «Living Country]] [[310-00269/12]] The next question is about the strategy of territorial dynamism. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Marc Solsona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.40.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillor Budó, the Government has promoted the strategy that is called "Visual Country and the same President Torra makes emphasis and incorporates in his country governance report this idea of the strategy force of the "Visual Country. A governance which, more than managing resources and taxes, must be a governance of which it is entitled to strategic improvement, which must answer in its genei to that question of which country we want. We want a territorially balanced country, which can compete with equal conditions and opportunities within the territory, well connected to the level of infrastructure, with high levels of connectivity also at the level of networks, for example, such as optical fiber, with opportunity to capture nine businesses and business models, and a wide etc. A country that allows the development of people's life plan with opportunities to avoid escape from these shortcomings and, therefore, to avoid the challenge of coping with this empty Catalonia or, in other words, the great challenge of depopulation. A mass territory sometimes fixed to generate effort and muscle to compete with added value, with talent, with innovation and also with enterprise. These market values are very cross-cutting, compatible in all fields of the productive economy, already in the agrarian, industrial, commercial, general industrial, service, etc. world. A country, it will advise, where to be born and wrap up the territory does not follow..., it is an exercise of individual will and freedom and it is not an exercise of resignation or impotence. So that's why we celebrate this initiative and ask it about the actions that are coming to an end in the project of the "Living country and also the affection that it has, logically, in the local world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word has the adviser of the Presidency, Mrs. Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.42.0	Thank you, President. The honourable Member, therefore, certainly, as you said to us, "The living country is precisely a strategy of this government to promote everything that has been linked to economic growth and also to the creation of opportunities for the country. "Alive country is certainly this project that must allow us to work to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to develop their life project, wherever it is, where it is, where it is and, therefore, where you decide to be able to exercise it. "Living country is the will of this Government to incorporate the vision and to incorporate the priorities of the territory into the policies of this Government. In fact, if we look at the country, we will see that 63 per cent of our municipalities, which occupy 64 per cent of the Catalan territory, have fewer than two thousand inhabitants; or, said in another way, 4.5 per cent of the people of Catalonia occupy 64 per cent of the territory, and this, this photo, already in evidence that this territorial balance can work to ensure equal opportunities. And this is certainly a reality that concerns us, that concerns the territory, but that also concerns the Government of the Generality, because it is a situation that can generate, if not in time, imbalance. As they may also worry about issues such as the weather, the industry's market, the need to take new businesses into the territory or the depopulation and the aging as a result of this depopulation. The country saw, precisely, that it is this tool that allows us to the territories..., equip us with the necessary tools, always doing it in coordination, in order to face these challenges and give solution to these realities. You were talking about it right now, in this sense, for example, actions that allow us to work in this line of the "Living Country: the deployment of optical fiber, also important for attracting companies; the improvement of infrastructure, or also the improvement of public transport. In fact, look, for this government, the importance of the joint work with the municipalities is decisive, because this cannot be done only from Barcelona, it must be done from the hands of the municipalities – you, as the mayor, know perfectly well – because the equal opportunities that can be developed in each territory depend on the characteristics of the respective territories, and that is why it is essential that we can jointly identify the opposites and needs and work together to find solutions to this problem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Climate Summit in Catalonia]] [[310-00260/12]] The next question is about the Climate Summit in Catalonia. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.44.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, fighting climate change is a priority. That's what we agree on. The summit of these days, which is taking place in Madrid, and the new scientific reports that are getting to know each other at this summit, have put it in store that ignoring the climate crisis is a difficult irresponsibility. Re-emphasizes the need to drastically reduce CO2 emissions and other greenhouse gases, and to curb above all the risks associated with scalding. There is no need to see with concern, as we have seen these days, how the Cascades Victory does not lower water; the late times and above all the subsidence of the Ebre Delta put into evidence, for example, the fragility of this country around our country. The climate change calls on all, governments, citizens, social and political organisations. No matter the income level, despite the fact that the decisions to be made must be fair above all with the lower returns. It is up to us to find solutions and shared proposals. That's why the Socialists insisted, we insist long ago on the need to celebrate a second summit in Catalonia, which in the end seems to be celebrating the 17th. Implementing proposals is not easy. This is why we have always defended the concertation between civil society and all levels of administration. It is essential for the transition from the awareness of the citizenry to the transformation of consumption habits, the transformation of the cities, a new governance in Catalonia and Spain is necessary in the long term. On the DNA of socialists, of the PSC, there is the pactist and constructive negotiation taranna to agree policies that defend the general interest. Without a dialog, negotiating capacity and willingness to reach large shared consensus, the ecological transition will not be possible. One_me left to start this second summit and, counselor, we don't even know the agenda or who are the objectives the government would like to achieve, or if these could be shared, and who are the efforts they want, that we want to ask society. And that's why we ask him to explain to us in his parliamentary office what these objectives the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.45.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.46.0	Yes, thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mr. MP, your intervention has begun, saying that we share a sincere, legitimate, authentic interest in the climate, and I recognize it: on many occasions, on the margins of the parliamentary debate, we have not been able to speak in depth. Indeed, the COP is being celebrated, the Government of the Generality has been present to the COP, in many acts of these side events, because we can't even be there as it is; but in any case the COP also serves us to observe what is happening around the world and, therefore, to apply it to Catalonia. Catalonia is a country with a demonstrated climate ambition. That's how they recognized us at the COP, too. Not only with the Environment Department in its time, but also with the Climate Change Law, which we approved with a broad consensus in 2017, from which actions were taken, among other things the CO2 tax on vehicles, which will start to be activated from the coming year and will provide us with money to make more and better climate policies. And, indeed, in the framework of this climate ambition, this summit is also located. You're talking about the second summit. I recognize that, indeed, in his day, he called a summit; I don't know if exactly the name was that, but in any case it served to align everyone with these objectives. In this case, we, the Government of the Generality, did not want to throw one in front of us; we have named it or we are naming it the first Catalan climate action summit, because now, at these times, what suits us is that there is more action and faster. We want to ask everyone. That is why we are holding preparatory sessions with many groups, with many sectors. We have not done with the assemblies, we have not done with employers and trade unions, we have not done with the world of academia, we have not done with the world of industry... We also want to do one with the parliamentary groups – so we will call them, if it is not already convened – a meeting with the parliamentary groups, to prepare this summit, which you serve above all to make commitments, firm commitments, which vagina includes beyond the legislation. To the companies we asked them: "Escoltin, you are addressing the people also in their quality of consumers. Therefore, they adopt commitments that vaginate more than those that mark the law. In short, this first summit is not a pull-out point or a pull-out point – not a pull-out point, because we've been working on it for a long time; it's not a pull-out point either, because it's not going to be the last one –; this first summit is a way of permanently assessing our commitment before climate change. He'll have an evaluation, he'll have a review. And there will be a second, which must count on everyone's commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.47.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.48.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.49.0	...time's up. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about external action]] [[310-00265/12]] The next question is about external action. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.50.0	Thank you. Good morning, Counselor. I'd like to ask you what your overseas trips are for, saying that sedition convicts must get out of jail, and that they offend all Catalans who don't think like you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.51.0	To answer the question, the words of Mr. Alfred Bosch, Counsellor d'Acció Exterior, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.52.0	The journeys we make abroad and the journeys I do and all the work we do to our department serve to project the country internationally, which is an obligation and a need in a world that is more global, and obviously we have to explain the reality of our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.53.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.54.0	I was asking you, counselor, about those journeys in which you are dedicated to saying that the sedition convicts have to get out of jail, and that you offend millions of Catalans, because you cannot defend yourself from the barbarities that you are saying abroad. As far as the year goes, in 2019, you have spent – you, councillor, and your entourage– 101,000_euros – and not all travel, such as travel to the United States – to say barbarities that offend so many Catalans; 101,000_euros to go to foreign universities and talk about the repression of the Spanish state, which, translated into democratic language, means complying with the laws. You speak or speak of exiles, who are, translated, fugitives from justice. He also talks about the fact that Catalans are half-citizens because we cannot decide our future. How can we not decide our future? Do we not decide our present and our future here in Parliament every day from political plurality? Do you not realize that you are doing harm, that you are discriminating against all dissidents who disagree with you? And does it have to be Citizens who remind you that one of the guiding principles of external action is precisely not to discriminate on the grounds of political ideas? I invite you, counselor, to come here to Parliament, instead of spending the money on going abroad and saying barbarities, which, I insist, hurt a lot of Catalans, and argue with us, debate with us here all your speeches abroad. Stop spending money on expensive, discriminatory trips for non-separatist Catalans and dare come here to discuss all those speeches with us. We want the same time you spend abroad– one hour, two hours, per conference–..., to devote the same time from here to discuss those speeches abroad. Are you going to dare? Will you dare with us to discuss those speeches...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.55.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.56.0	...in parliamentary office? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.57.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.58.0	It's not that I look at it or not, it's that we're doing it; we're debating it right now, you and me. Tomorrow we have an inquiry, with more time; we can also continue to do so. Listen, you're talking to me about spending, and you're always ready to give lessons. They could be applied, some of these lessons. Your government is in Andalusia. There the expenditure in foreign action is 24_million euros, in delegations, four times more than what we spend here, the Government of Catalonia, with a similar number of delegations, four times more. What's it spent on? Where's transparency? Do not explain it, to your portal, to the Junta d'Andalusia. Listen, you, in addition, delegates who send to the outside of Andalusia, you do not select them for merit contests, open, as we do here. Moreover, the highest representative of the external projection of the Junta d'Andalusia, Mr. Enric Millo – who was delegated by the government here, who ordered police charges–, as the highest element of his résumé in international relations, has made it possible for him to give the world, the whole planet and the international chains, the images of opinions and to have beaten on October 1, 2017! [[Greetings.]] Maximum merit – maximum merit. It's more, you say you don't know if what we're doing is necessary, if we spend a lot... Well, look at this one from the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio, the last one, which says that 70 percent of Catalans think it would be necessary for the external action and the delegations of Catalonia to the outside, 70 percent. What we don't know if you consider the citizens of Catalonia who are so needed are you. [[Widow's remorse.]] In the last elections, in Catalonia, you got a 95_percent of people who gave you the skeleton, which you think is unnecessary. No, that's why I'm telling you. Listen, we're doing merit contests open to everyone for the delegates. So maybe they'll prepare their future. If they want to introduce themselves, then they have the summons there. And maybe some day they get together enough to go to Antofagasta, Timbuktu or Contxinxin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.59.0	The next question is about sanitation. [[Ask the Government about sanitation]] [[310-00266/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.60.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Benvolguada will advise, you know perfectly well that the list of waits in Catalonia from years ago is immense and you also know that right now we know that it is news that in the past year, with you, it has continued to be instigating. And that's why today at this control session we want to ask him if you can give any explanation to the citizenry, because he knows that the citizenry is well concerned. And I look, for example, at some of the front pages of a few diaries, showing that the list of waits with you is clearly worse and that it is alarming. To give examples, here's one: in Lleida, the waiting list has risen by 17_per_cent, and has increased by a thousand people a year ago; 7,586 people are waiting right now to be operated according to official data. And the problem is obvious, Counselor, that it's not just Lleida, it's all Catalonia, where the situation is very difficult. Look, you've already managed to get the surgical waiting list in Catalonia to be the longest in all of Spain: 168,000 patients currently desperate waiting for surgery. Catalonia is the leading community of people waiting for all of Spain. And, of course, we're also mid-awaiting leaders, with 146 days of waiting, and a mid-awaiting rate of twenty-three patients on the waiting list for every thousand inhabitants. Therefore, she advises, Catalonia is a leader in waiting patients, a leader in waiting times and a leader in the middle tax. What a shame to lead! Even the syndic failure of the process, in Rafael Ribó, the one of the trip to Berlin with 3_per_cent, has returned to ''Spain in steals assigning the waiting list to the patients of the rest of the State who are operated here, in another attempt to whiten its bad results. May I remind you that from Ciutadans we will bring here to Parliament a proposal for law, this legislature, urgent and integral, for the better of these lists of waiting, where we want professionals, colleges, unions, patient associations, coming here, with the open door, to participate in a cross-cutting law in order to improve among all this problem. But you closed the door to this woman voting against. Instead of working to improve the waiting list, they put more on everybody. Counselor, what do you say to the patients you're waiting for?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.61.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.62.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.63.0	Thank you. To answer the word has the greeting counselor. Mrs. Alba Vergés, when she wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.64.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, deputies, deputies, members of the chamber, so I tell you: this is one of our concerns and one of our jobs, from day to day so many people who are working in the Health Department; not just in the Health Department: the Catalan Health Service, to all the territories and absolutely all and every one of the centers. And you know that, because I came to explain it and because I told you. And we did audits. And I don't want to compare myself with other autonomous communities, I don't want to compare myself, and I've said it many times, that I don't know how they treat data, that they don't have the same transparency as we do, and that they're obviously not doing the job that we are doing. Why, if not, what dates do we have to believe? What do you say about Andalusia when you came in, that you said that the PSOE's lords had stunned the half of the waiting lists they had? What do you say today? What audits have you done and how have you worked there where you govern, which, by luck, is a lot of places? We have already said that they are structural solutions. It is not a matter of coming here to give compliments or to go out on a front page with plans of shock or anything else. We're in an absolutely growing demand situation. You tell me: "We have more people on the waiting list. And I say, we do more and we do better. We do a lot more activity than we did. We've left behind the stages of detail. 2018 we have arrived to contribute to Salut 10,400_million euros – 2018 –; 2020 we recover working conditions of professionals who will also intervene in what is the treatment of waiting lists. And we're leaders too... and we don't stop worrying about what can happen, about the access time or accessibility of our patients, but we also have to say, we're leaders in transplants. And being leaders in transplants means that there's a day when we're operating at different centers and we're occupying the ORs with what's really important and uplifting, which are transplants. We are looking forward and have a very high cancer survival rate at world level. So, we're very complex. And one example is the ECMO, which was able to see the other day, in coordination with Bombers, with the SEM, which saved a person's life. And maybe I do recognize his repte. That is to say, we are resolving much better what is urgent and priority, and we also have to work much harder for everything we have to be complex in our health care system. So let's learn, let's learn, let's learn, let's learn, let's learn, let's
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.65.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the administrative contract]] [[310-00267/12]] The next question is about administrative contracting. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.66.0	Mr Aragonès, a month ago the Anti-Fraud Office published a demolishing report which concludes that in Catalonia two_of_each_three contracts are made to the finger. And this continues despite the legal reforms that are going on. What will your Government do to prevent fraudulent recruitment?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.67.0	To answer the question, Mr. Pere Aragonès, Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.68.0	As it is noted that you do not have very much government experience, because if you consider that all the minor contract is fraudulent contract, it is that you do not understand public contract, and that you do not understand public contract, I will tell you that the Government of Catalonia always works not only in accordance with the rules, but also better, and an exhibition is the index of competition in contracts, each time there are more companies that want to participate in the contracts that the Government of Catalonia is proposing, therefore, a transparent system, which it awards correctly and always in agreement with the rules. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.69.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.70.0	Mr Aragonès, if I don't know anything about administrative recruitment, it seems to me that you have no idea – or want – of the fight against corruption. And that's very clear. [[Greetings.]] Because you look the other way – look the other way – with the frauds investigated to Secretary General d'Esports. Because you look elsewhere with fraudulent recruitments, which are news, in the investigations to Mrs Borràs. Mr Aragonès, that you are very quiet there next to Mr Torra and next to Convergència i Unió while promoting for Mr Torra's replacement a lady who is being investigated for favoring a friend in contracts to finger 260.000_euros. And there's more under the carpets. We met two weeks ago the report of the Union of Accounts, in 2015, under the mandate of Mr Germà Gordó, were awarded 4_million_de_euro to a company. By tender? No, the finger. Absolutely the finger. And that's what the Union of Accounts points out, that you don't seem to be very attentive or aware of administrative contracting either. Because, moreover, in 2016 and under the mandate of Mr Mundó, of Esquerra Republicana, this practice continued to be done. And you also looked elsewhere at the investigated corruptions of Mr Calvo of the DGAIA, also of the Republican Left. Look, you assumed the mantras of Spain as a young man, and it seems that you now assume as vice president of the Generalitat the widespread corruption that we have, the culture of amigoism, the forty years that the corruption installed in Catalonia and that it is covering itself with the flag. Look, I tell you, you have an opportunity now from the Government of Catalonia to show that you are aware of the frauds that are being made and of the friendship with the recruitment in Catalonia and not to deny it, as you have always done Convergence i Unió and as Mr Torra also does. Citizens are already fighting this, so let's talk about corruption in a plenary in the coming weeks. I hope that then you will dare to work with us in the eradication of this scourge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.71.0	Congressman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] To answer again, the Deputy President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.72.0	Mr Carrizosa, you, who are the political force that has maintained until the last according to the most corrupt government of Europe, which was the government of the People's Party with Gürtel, has no right to give lessons to this government about corruption, to a government that we are not only pushing a strategy of fighting corruption with twenty-five actions in different areas, but we are already carrying a lot of fetal trajectory. We have changed the infrastructure award system of the Government of Catalonia, with absolute traceability, making any variation that has to affect the final score completely recorded; absolute transparency. We have promoted our policy of fighting corruption, precisely, as well as investigations before the cartel indices between builders who could agree on bids from the Government of Catalonia to alter these processes, as the Catalan Competition Authority has done. And before any suspicion, this government acts and acts. But what it does is work together, work together when there are judicial investigations. And whenever there are demands on the part of judicial investigations into any aspect of corruption, we work together to facilitate all the documentation that is required, as it cannot be in any other way, and as, obviously, all governments have to do. So now you've seen that you've been playing for language or ideology, trying to divide the Catalan society, you don't get caught up, now you've seen that you're trying to carry tension in this Parliament, constantly, you don't get caught up, now you're trying to look..., try to put everyone in the same bag with this new Ple against corruption. So, listen, welcome to the debate. We will explain all the measures we are taking, because we have a total and absolute commitment in the fight against corruption. And, therefore, it will remain absolutely clear in this Ple. Therefore, concrete actions, absolutly compromises the government and we will obviously recover, as we have always been, any public euro that has gone to corruption, to which it should not have stopped. So, lessons, Mr. Carrizosa, head, head, head or one. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.73.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the sacrifices to be made by the Catalans in order to achieve independence]] [[317-00155/12]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. And the first formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.74.0	Yes, thank you. First it was his claim of the Slovenian way and then the claim of Engler's theories on the great sacrifices that Catalonia should take to achieve independence. Could you describe to us those sacrifices that Catalonia and Catalans should take on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.75.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word. The President of the Generality ( Joaquim Torra i Pla ) Yes, good morning, Congressman. Now I answer it, but I would like to do... – but, briefly, a minute – I think that the citizenry wants to know some news about what is going on with the company of Montornès del Vallès. I would like to inform you that as much as the fire at these times – I am passed by the Councillor of the Interior – therefore, it is not controlled, the Bombers are defending the adjacent ships so that the fire does not go any further. The polygon has been evacuated, it is not expected that this fire could go any further, so the news is good, somehow. 250 people have been evacuated, the SEM has reached one person, there are thirty-one equipment with seventy-two bombers, a command centre has been set up and, in short, all the information will be donated. But I think it's worth it, so, given the concern there was in the city, send this message. Look, Congressman, the book and the person who wrote this book is a non-violence referent – a non-violence referent. That seems to me to be the most uplifting thing. And if you want, today what we can compare is this non-violence referent respects that his party companion, Mrs. Cayetana Álvarez, said the other day that we are worse than in ETA times. She dared to say that to her party partner. And that's hard, that's very hard, that's trivializing. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.76.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.77.0	Yes, thank you. First it was the Slovenian way, then the theory of sacrifices, I have come to the conclusion that yours is already a deep structural problem that requires that of great evils, great remedies. So, look, Nadal's day, every man's house, but why don't you come over to my house for dinner on Christmas Eve? I'm totally serious about that. I consulted with my wife, with my mother, at first they didn't see it, because you don't like it too well, but come, come, you will see that there is another Catalonia, that we are not weird bugs and those nice things that dedicate us from time to time; you will dine in a fable, a half Asturian menu, half Catalan– without monks, don't suffer– [[relays]] , and the most essential of everything, the fundamental thing, will happen to you as you have not happened in your life, that good fault does you and you will be taken away from the Slovenian nonsense that you have. So come, add to the Christmas spirit, come to my house for dinner on Christmas Eve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.78.0	President, when you say so. [[Widow's remorse.]] Calm down, everybody. Just a moment, President. Quiet, everybody, calm down.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.79.0	I think the only possible answer before a question like this is to say: Lord God's Sea, where we have arrived. Mother of God Lord, what you are able to say in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] Sea of God Lord. I... look, with a lot of pleasure going to Nadal's dinar where I am, I suggest you and your Vaginal family try to make this Nadal's dinner with our political prisoners and our exiles. Vagi-hi – vagi-hi. Believe me. [[Greetings.]] And yes, but I don't want to take away what was supposed to be the question... then we saw that this was nothing more than a comedy, but I would want to talk about Mr. Paul Engler as an expert in nonviolent disobedience. Repeat: not violent. Expert recognised the world, and that in an interview sets the example of the consequences of violent state repression – is violent state repression to the citizenry, huh? Don't get confused. Does it bother you that someone says you don't have to capitulate to the violent threat of authoritarian states? I understand you want everyone to react to threats and violence, and you tried it on October 1st. What was October 1st? What was that violence against the citizenry, violence against you, against the King of Spain, against the highest institutions of the Kingdom of Spain, but the will that Catalans would not continue to advance with the threats and threats. So we'll keep moving. We'll keep moving and we won't hang on. All right, all right, [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.80.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the situation of collapsing public sanitation]] 317-00156/12 The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.81.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, we would like to know what you think of the collapsing situation of the Catalan public health system, which, in the words of the Secretary General of the Metges Union, has neither short nor medium nor long term plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.82.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.83.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's a recurring theme, just came out in a question to the sanitation counselor. I'll answer it with data, with all the projects. I know you want to petition us on this subject, and I'm going to want to give you an answer if you ask me about the waiting list decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.84.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.85.0	So we'll have to wait. Look, after a decade of austerity and detail, Catalonia occupied the shame seat in underfunding and waiting lists, and if the collapsing situation is not greater, it is thanks to the excellent professionals we have. As has been said before, the waiting time for an MRI has doubled since 2010, also that of the colonoscopy. Job insecurity is evicting our professionals and the imbalance is multiplied by barrels, let's see how the districts, the district hospitals are buiding from specialists, and the situation in Lleida or the Jewish Lands is unsustainable. Therefore, they call for resources, there is an obvious lack of resources. That is why we need – and we will agree on this – a reform of the financial system, a tax reform and also a few presuppositions for Catalonia, but also as a political will, and here is the famous decree on the reduction of waiting lists that we carry a year, a year exactly, waiting. A decree that must place primary care at the centre and that must ensure that in seventy-two hours as much as any patient continues to attend for his or her healthcare team. That would be a first step. And also, president, as I know he's going to talk about assumptions, and besides, the issue just came out, I'll tell him: for me the most paradigmatic picture is that while we were in the Economy trying to get some assumptions for Catalonia that follow social, green and feminists, because Catalonia needs it and out of responsibility, you were on Twitter recommending the interview of a lord who talked about blood and martyrs in winning movements. For me, this is irresponsible. And I'll also tell you one more thing: you know that we don't want you to be disabled to put up a sign, we don't believe in justice, and we think it's a big mistake. But I will also say to him: to me it seems sad that we consider the issue of the banner as a great battle against the State. Do you know what the best fight against the State would be? So show that we do things better here, stop gesticulating and push public policies that don't let anyone back, be relentless against corruption and also show that here is rule for the whole majority, for the whole city, and not just for a smaller part every time of yours. And, as for a few seconds, I will again insist on the need for an electoral call to Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.86.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.87.0	Well, you're a progressive, left-wing, pacifist group, aren't you? I think a referent like Mr. Engler should be one of his referents; I think, huh? At least it's for a lot of people who defend non-violence in this country, like Amnesty International, right? I suppose that you, therefore, much of your militancy or yourselves must be members of Amnesty International. I only ask them one thing: that the Amnesty International report, you, now that you have the opportunity to do so, present it to Mr. Sanchez why the compleixi, eh? And because the two Jordi can come out immediately. Just ask them that, I just ask them that. But we're going to the health-care waiting lists, if that's what it looks like. Catalans greatly value public health services, according to the health barometer of Plaensa, and from the government they know that we are working and that we have improved. And I want to highlight the best, because there are better, with data, with figures, because here, effectively, it turns out that a lot of people talk, but at the time of putting concrete figures on the table, so we don't pose them. And respect for surgical interventions, for example, has gone from 87,11_per_cent in 2015 to 94,08_per_cent in 2018; the waiting time for neoplastic surgery is 30 days and 37 for cardiac surgery, 122 days for cataracts of 131 days for malacute and 188 days for knee surgery. Regarding diagnostic tests, it has passed from a 71.8_per_cent in 2015 to 74.52_per_cent in 2018; waiting time for an ordinary diagnostic test is maintained in 51 days and 30 days for a preferential diagnostic test. I respect the external consultations, from 59.7 in 2016 to 65.42_per_cent in 2018. I think they are interesting figures, which must also be put in value. Now, let's work it, let's work this decree. And this is my compromise: let's work this decree– let's work this decree–, let's work it, because we have to get these assumptions straight. These assumptions are not assumptions of the Government of the Generality, they are assumptions of country. And also to attack the waiting lists and to attack the problems that this country needs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.88.0	Mr. President, time is up. Thank you. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the lack of regulatory deployment of various laws]] [[317-00154/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.89.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Many honourable President of the Generality, what is the reason for which it has not yet been approved for the regulation that develops the forecasts of guaranteed income of citizens; the regulation that sets the procedure for the recognition of the right to public health assistance of persons not included in the censuses of the Catalan Health Service or of the National Health System; the regulation that develops the Law of Commerce, Services and Fires, the regulation that develops the law that guarantees the rights of LGBTI persons; the regulation that develops the Law of Effective Equality of Men and Women, or the regulation that develops the Law of Financing of the Public Transport System of Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.90.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.91.0	Yeah. Mr. Congressman, there's a lot of questions in one, huh? And so it's hard to answer. What I can tell you is that a lot of these rules are advanced, a lot of them are already presented, a lot of them are already discussed, a lot of them are in different processing situations, and that it is the will of this government, as you can imagine, so pull them all forward. You are also fully aware of the complexity of Catalan politics, in which, unfortunately, therefore, we must have many of our time, not precisely to be able to manage our day, but to have circumstances as difficult as having company in prison and exile, to go to court, to accompany company in court... So all this issue also obviously influences the management of the Government. But, certainly, on each of these points, if you want, then we go into detail.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.92.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.93.0	President, the rules are different, but the question is one: why do they have low legislative output? Why not regularly develop the laws that have been compromised? Those I've mentioned are read, one, from 2014; two, from 2015, and three, from 2017. And, therefore, his answer does not satisfy us. It is not clear to us whether the motive is that there is a discrepancy of criteria in the case of the Government, or whether they consider that they are not priority themes, or simply that they do not know how to pose there. And I don't know which of the three possibilities is worse. We have cited laws that have a great social interest, and the lack of momentum in their deployment shows that perhaps social priority does not fall within their government's priorities. I talked about regulations, but I could have added the map of pending social benefits or the decree on lists of waiters, which was also mentioned before. Mass of people without entrances are waiting for the help they have right. Masses waiting lists and long lists. Homophobic attacks without punishment, precisely because of the lack of regulatory development of the law. And, therefore, I would like to ask you, President, whether I can take a concrete time compromise before the chamber to complete the statutory deployment of the laws that have been set out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.94.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the paragraph again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.95.0	Yeah. One way of answering could also be: well, we compare the legislative and regulatory activity of the Government of Catalonia with that of the Government of Spain, which has been immersed in this political instability and which has paralysed it almost completely, except – yes – to resort to digital decrees, right? , that the rights of all citizens be violated. I think governments don't care. Many laws and many regulations can be made that do not serve, therefore, for too long. But I would like to say to you, in any case, that the Government has approved twenty-nine standards with law rank, eight bills – for equal treatment of the treaty and non-discrimination, the Public Health Agency, contracts to serve people, also the Wine Law, climate change – and twenty decrees to it. Divided from these twenty decrees came from the government and were validated for Parliament. We have also approved twenty-one preliminary memoranda, such as the initial point for the development of advance drafts of the law; for example, of energy transition, the modification of the Law of the Catalan Authority of Competition, on the democratic memory of Catalonia or the Law of Chambers of Commerce, industry, services and navigation of Catalonia, so important, etcetera. The law's plans, they know they have a period of gestation, of anticipated reports, of hearing proceedings..., it's not four days ago. And, in fact, if we compare this legislature with others and count the time passed by this legislature, we are at a rate of approval of standards with a law rank very similar to the first tripartite, to the first government of President Mas or to the government of President Puigdemont.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.96.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the negotiations of the Republican Left of Catalonia for the investiture of the President of the Government of the State]] [[317-00157/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.97.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies. Let's say the times you need: to political conflicts, political solutions; to political conflicts, ballot boxes; to catal conflict, self-determination and dialog, always dialog, dialog between equals, dialog from you to you. The independenceists have always defended the dialect, all of them, and always defending the peaceful, dialogueable and democratic path. Today, almost all of us are at the same point, each with its own nuances, certain, because plurality is this, and it is also what has allowed us to always advance. And it's about knowing how to add it, and not making us trembling each other with tantalizing moves. We have a very clear picture of the future policy of this country: amnesty and self-determination, freedom and republic. We have a lot of work to do to improve the social and economic future of this country, and we want to be there. These days we have made contact with the PSOE, contacts we wanted to share with all the actors, because in the end our proposal is to transfer to a negotiating table the great political and social consensus of this country; the end of repression and resolution of the conflict through the ballot box and democracy. We have the historic opportunity to bring Catalonia and the State together at a negotiating table to address the current political conflict, and we cannot give up. We want to take the State to a table, if not because it wants it – which surely does not want it – it will be because the election results force them. Make it possible. Let's give each other an opportunity. Fem that's moguin. Without moving anything, the Republican Left has very clear what it has to do: say and say that it is not roundly. If they move, if we move them, then the starting point is to reach our goals, those to which Esquerra has not given up in eighty years of history. Today we're still all over the place. The PSOE has recognized the political conflict. There is now a lack of bilaterality and will and guarantees to reach a political solution. We've known about it for years and we've been waiting a long time, and these lifts we don't have the hurry they have for their calendar. We will follow where we have always been, fighting for the future free and clean and socially just that we want for this country, without ever giving up anything, talking, from institution to institution, from political actor to political actor. It's possible that it seems impossible. Why is that political, President, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.98.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.99.0	Yes, thank you, Congressman. I understand you expressed your opinion, huh? , and the negotiations that your group is pulling forward with the Socialist Party. I will express, if I may, what is the Government's opinion on these questions, which is marked, therefore, necessary for the statements that we have about as government and, first of all, for the agreement that the Executive Council took on Tuesday 22 October, huh? One time he knew the feeling of the hundred years. Here we expressed the commitment of the Government of Catalonia that would defend the exercise of the right to self-determination as a way to decide the future policy of Catalonia, among other issues, obviously, the guarantee of human, civil and political rights, the re-establishment of feeling, to congratulate us on all peaceful demonstrations and to reiterate once more to the President, then, eh? – we were speaking then, October 14th – of the Government of the State, the need to urgently initiate this dialogue with the President of the Government of Catalonia. Unfortunately, this dialog, as you know, didn't happen. But I think that other things have happened after that, that we have subscribed, if they want, at least all the groups of this chamber, the groups that support independence in this chamber and that form the central core of which I understand to be any proposal that is put on the table to the Government of the State. For example, the Declaration of the Sea Llotja, we are talking about the right to self-determination of our peoples, the civil and political freedoms and the freedom of political prisoners and prisoners and the return of exiles; or the Assembly of the Elected Carrecs of Catalonia, where we do not just reject the sentence, but demand amnesty and demand the freedom of political prisoners and prisoners, we demand a dialogue and appeal to the international mediation to achieve this objective, working for self-determination. And all this in the wake of a proposal that we agreed on by the three groups in the chamber, which was a great national agreement to address freedom, amnesty and exercise of the right of self-determination as quickly as possible. I already made a proposal in this room. And here is where we have to work, in this great national agreement, to see how we exercise the right of self-determination as quickly as possible. That's what all the Members of this House voted for, and I'm sure that all the Members of this House will do honor, so this compromise that we voted among all of us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.100.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the political strategy of resisting and persisting before the repression of the Spanish State]] [[317-00158/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.101.0	Thank you very much, President. To start with a prec, President: I believe that respect for the Catalan institutions also begins with the mutual respect that we must have for the deputies in their parliament and for the respect for the figure of the Presidency of the Generality of Catalonia, in this case President Torra, and the mass often in this plenary this does not happen, because to respect democracy is to respect our institutions. [[Greetings.]] That said, President, very honorable President Torra, two years of repression, he will soon make two years of the 21st of December elections. Two years when we could see that repression applied two ways, like two strokes of the same coin. A Spanish repression, of the State, against people who are unjustly in prison, we understand that in a totally unjust and anti-democratic way, with an extreme hardship: more than a hundred years of prison, more than a hundred years of the lives of members of the legitimate government of Catalonia, of people who have captivated social and civic entities in our country. And we have also seen a very harsh face, sometimes silent, such as the face of exile, very complex personal and family situations, which affect the general secretary of Republican Esquerra, the Marta Rovira, deputy also from here, from the Parliament; the Anna Gabriel; the conseiller Lluís Puig; the conseiller Serret; the conseiller Clara Ponsatí; the conseiller Comín, or the president Puigdemont, among others, artists and other people. Key days have come for international strategy. On the 12th of December there is the sight of Clara Ponsatí; on the 16th of December there is the sight of President Puigdemont, Councillor Comín and Councillor Puig; on the 19th of December there will be a judgment of the Court of Luxembourg around the immunity of MEPs that the Spanish State has not allowed them to take the record, with a report by the Advocate General of the European Union who gives valid reason to be Members and who should have all these rights. We saw that the strategy of exile was not an escape, but that it responds to a political strategy due to the end of all these two years, which is based on resisting and persisting. What position do you have around this strategy and how do you expect the next few days, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.102.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.103.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Certainly, I think that next week we can find ourselves before a decision change, I think it's a decisive week, it can really change the political landscape of this country in a very important way, and so we have to be very careful and old-fashioned for what can happen. It really was serious that European citizens were democratically chosen to represent other citizens in the European Parliament, so they could not be exercising their rights that correspond to them as elected officials. Very hard. And we already know that this solution and this justice that we are looking for will never find it in the Spanish State, never in the Spanish State will we ever find it. Therefore, our hopes must be laid there, to European justice. Our triumphs, somehow, have come from exile, which is where we can expect justice that is denied to us in the State. And, indeed, certainly the week that sees, therefore, for all these successions of events can be key. And I think it's important – I think it's important – also because Europe is already looking at this Spanish justice with great fear. I believe that the Diplomat will also publish an inquiry into perceptions of how European countries perceive the Spanish state from here to here. I think it might be interesting, once they make it public, see what's said there. But in any case, it is obvious that from Europe the authoritarianism of the Spanish State is perceived as a real hard fact and in justice as a very and very hard fact. We said this week that we have the possibility that, through the appeal made by Vice-President Junqueras, three MEPs, because it is clear that the feeling that can be made in the case of the Vice-President will have a direct and immediate impact on President Puigdemont and Councillor Comín... It is clear that these three MEPs can acquire their rights as Euro MPs with what that would mean. And, therefore, I share – I think, all the government's companies and companies –, so I hope that this is the way it is, that this immunity is won and that the political situation in the country can give a real decision. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.104.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality what measures are being taken to deal with the increase in poverty]] [[317-00153/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.105.0	Yes, thank you. Mr. Torra, we have been asking you for months about the alarming social indicators we have in Catalonia, such as the increase and chronification of poverty. According to a recent report by the Observatory of the Red Cross, there are more and more Catalans who are immersed in a state of extreme fragility that leads them to situations of poverty from which they find it very difficult to get out. Look, Mr. Torra, for every twelve Catalans who get out of poverty, almost twice as many fall back into it in less than a year. What is your Government doing to alleviate this serious situation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.106.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.107.0	Thank you, honourable Member. I think this is an interesting debate, this is the debate that we need to have, because, effectively, governments have their first priority to be of the most dismal people, the people who have some risk of getting back together and who can't get their personal and professional life projects straight. We have almost a series of measures this year, but we have the most important measure, if I may, at the cantonate, that they are the presuppositions of the Generality. These presuppositions of the Generality, which are eminently social presuppositions, because almost 80_percent of the expenditure will be devoted to all the pillars of welfare and to all the social pillars that support our country, I think they will be key precisely in order to be able to give a down in this situation as well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.108.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.109.0	Yes; thank you, President. Well, well, I have to thank you because for the first time you answer a question in this control session; so thank you very much. What is happening is that, of course, we have heard this from the social budgets so many times, "the most social in history, and the problems are never fixed, Mr Torra." Do you know who else suffers from poverty here, those who suffer most? Women, the 50-year-olds and children. According to a recent report by Unicef, child poverty in Catalonia has increased by almost 4_per_cent over the past year, i.e. since you are President, Mr Torra. Do you know what else has increased since you became president too? Energy poverty, the percentage of people who cannot keep their housing in the right climate at this time, has increased by two points over the past year. We in Citizens have introduced a law of urgent measures against energy poverty and I tell you that I am looking forward to seeing what you are voting for. More troubling data: 5,500 Catalans sleep in Catalonia, Mr. Torra. And I know that you know this data, because this data is precisely from the Generalitat, but you do nothing about it. You, however, do dedicate yourself to subscribing to the words of those who ask for high levels of sacrifice. And I ask you, Mr. Torra: what more sacrifice can you ask those who are seeing you lose everything or those who have already lost everything, Mr. Torra? And really that we have been insisting on this for many months, we have done it in the control sessions, we have done it in the general policy debate, I also did it in the motion of censure that I presented, we have even forced full monographs on it. But the data keeps getting worse. Why? Because you don't do anything about it, because you're more concerned about other things. And, look, as you walk in and out of your office to go to Waterloo, there are a lot of Catalans coming in and out of poverty, because they have a government that doesn't protect them. So, really, I hope now he doesn't come to make either the hero or the martyr. The hero with this data is quite difficult, and martyrs, Catalans who have to suffer their inability to manage. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.110.0	To answer again, the president has the word. You don't care about the weather, because there's been a problem; in any case, I'll let you know, president. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.111.0	All right. No, thank you, because I thought we could have a debate about the poor, which seems to me to be a very important topic, but then you always start to sweep things up. But I'll try to focus on what I thought was your question. What are we worried about? We are concerned about the 3.7 points increase in the poverty risk rate of the large people. Certainly, here's an important problem in the big people. The increase in the tax on women, which has increased from 20.7 to 24.1_per_cent, while it has decreased for men, from 19.3 to 18.4_per_cent. So we have a problem and we have a problem with women. And that the underseven years are still at a high rate of 28_per_cent; or that 48_per_cent of foreign people are under the risk of poverty. It's, I'd say, three worrying dice, huh? And that's what we have to put into the question and, therefore, it's a red alarm that we have here before and that we have to face. But what positive elements do we have, too? Now I've told him who the negatians were. Which has slightly decreased inequality, the inequality index shows how 20_percent of people with higher income per unit of consumption is 5.2 times higher than the total entries of 20_percent of people with lower income. Last year was 5.7. Or that the social protection system continues to function at the time of reducing the risk of poverty, because it goes from 41_percent to 21.3_percent, after social transfers, retirements, benefits, etc. We did not take away our responsibilities and we presented and tried to present a premise with which we increased the expenditure by 1,665_million, the 73,6_percent of which was intended for Health, Social Affairs and Education. Now we have some assumptions – we have some assumptions – in which this expenditure increases almost to 2,500_million and this figure of 73.6_per_cent is still high. That's why I said it's the big tool we have ahead of us. But we don't have enough tools. And we'd like them all. Why did you bid on pensions? The State. As the middle income grows, the street wins, but if the pensions don't fight, the pensioners become under the street of the poor, and we can't do anything about that. Who regulates the labor market? The State. Who perpetuates the fiscal deficit? The State. That's why we need all these skills, we want them all, to be able to attack what is a difficult problem, and, I agree with you, those three points of poverty.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.112.0	President, thank you. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the committees (Rule 49(2))]] After the control session, we proceed to the next item on the agenda, which is the communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions, in accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure. The composition of the commissions will be communicated to the plenary, as the changes have been informed through the file, I would like to be delighted with your reading. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Question to the Government on the situation of the health system]] [[300-00208/12]] So let's move to the next point of the order of the day, which, as you know, are the corresponding points to 9, 10 and 6 of the order of the day, that is to say, let's start with the interrogations. And, first of all, the question to the Government about the situation of the health system, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar. To expose it, the honourable Member has the word Escarp. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Hope for a moment, Congresswoman, that the deputies must come out. [[Pause.]] When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.113.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. Today, three groups have agreed not to give them lessons – there is no mistake – we have agreed to manifest the non-government, we have agreed to explain to him a concern and above all the existence of two realities. Miri, a few days ago there was a reflection in the sense that this government acted with inertia and, therefore, so long ago that it acted with inertia and that there were no initiates to pull forward, that what it does is that it is ending with the news that in its moment they generated governments of progress of the Generality and that, therefore, they made the public services work. Two years later, this report adds to the details made by the government of Mr. Mas – brutal details, it has to be said, more than the ones made in many other places – what he has done is that, at this time, he manifests the crisis of public servants multiplied by God. These Gods years multiplied by God. And, therefore, at this time we are basically worse than in the beginning of the crisis, but worse than in the worst years of the crisis, among other things because there was no way to reverse things. He said before the president that he liked things with data. So I'll tell you a lot of data, if you want, but I wouldn't want to entertain that either. But, among other things, at this time, the per capita expenditure in Catalonia in salutation is 1,154_euros, when the year 2009 was 1,300. But it is that, in total, you know that we have a health expenditure of 27.5 less than in 2009; or that the GDP in Catalonia only invests 3.7 in health, while the Spanish average is 6.2. They are illustrative data; since I want data, we give them to them. And besides, here, we add two years without presuppositions. I'll tell you again, they're not lessons, they're reality, huh? , and we have great setbacks: social changes, demographics, deepening inequalities, increasing chronicity, more people more malaise, living more, increasing mental illness. And we have a big doubt, which we've already demonstrated, if we know where we're going and have some full road. It seems to me that Mrs Albiach has also said the words of the Secretary General of Metges de Catalunya: "The Catalan public health system has neither short nor long-term plans. And I'd like to define sanitation and the health system as two realities. It's true, we have absolutely cutting-edge, highly important, professionally-recognized care and search activities that only public health can do. We intervene with 5G, we facilitate recovery of a part of the necrotic color after a heart attack with sea cells, and the recovery you gave of a woman after six hours of cardiac arrest for hypothermia. He's a proud man. And we have to be proud, but that just doesn't define excellence. Excellence is another thing. We have another reality, one day a day for the citizen and citizen and also for the professional, and even for the managers of the centres that make hands and hands. And, look, I don't have another line, I'll also talk about the waiting lists, these 168,000 people who are hoping or that at this time we'll expect forty-three days more than 2009 to make an echo, or thirty-five days more to make an echo. I invite you to read..., and I will pass the data, but I invite you to read a report from The Newspaper a few days ago – the witnesses of people who wait – because that was the face of statistics, the faces that bear pains, uncertainties and loss of quality of life; they are the faces from whom they cannot afford a private clinic. And they're from Catalonia, she advises, because they don't come from other communities to wait here; they're from here. And that neither the syndic of heavy defenses, and, in change, is allowed to state that everything depends on how it's looked and counted. And he also claims that if they come from outside, they cause us dysfunctions and overcosts. A very sui generis interpretation of the universality of salvation. But above all I would like to..., and this yes, addressed to the syndic: the Socialist Group gave support to Mr Ribó as the syndic for his trajectory; today and now, for his trajectory, our group would neither give nor give support to him. [[Greetings.]] We are looking forward, counsel, to the decree of accessibility – it has also been discussed here –, this promise of President Torra of October 3, 2018 and that at this time the only one we have seen are general criteria that have been sent to CatSalut. I think we cannot go on saying that we will have a decree, because we cannot go on with structural measures and not take measures, because it is a shoal of shoal, an extraordinary economic endowment that helps to reduce the waiting lists. And I know you don't agree. But it has to be said that at the time they were reduced, and so they hired professionals, they opened surgery for the afternoons, and there was a chance to lower the waiting lists. But, look, I'd also like to talk to you about other realities of these, when we talk about the two cares of the system, which is the complaint of the primary professionals before the Labour Inspectorate for failing to complete the exit agreements, when they asked to have time to attend to the patients, and that means more contracting, which means less scheduled hours. And it's not complete, because the 860 meters that were lost the more retirements we were supposed to have been in. Nor have we equated the ICS professionals with the Siscat, nor have we recovered the professional career system. Or, of course, we leave them to a few meths, to which they are part of the Siscat, 5_percent deduction still, or we tell them that the collection of PODs, therefore, will depend on the balance to finance. And you explain to us the forum of the professions, a great forum of elbows, for which they explained to me, but that it has no calendars or resources, and that, moreover, the rural world has left itself. Remember that we talked here in a young man's room about the rural world. But, look, today the Aran itself has no trauma in the middle of the ski season. So you'll tell me how to do it. But, well, in any case, this is basically the discomfort to primary and community care, that its solution also had to come for a structural issue and that it does not go up because there are no short-term measures. Listen, do you think you're going to put 25 percent of the presupposition of salvation in primary instead of the 17th that you have now? Do you think you can put more resources in the presupposition, that we can really see that there are better? And so we could be talking about emergencies, about the SEM, that there is no progress in integral social and health integration, that have diminished the resources of the PADES or that more than a year ago we are waiting for the new law against smoking, and you announced measures, and that we will already have, as I said before, collapsing emergencies. Or something that surprised me: you have acquired a 1.7_per_cent more cows from the flu and have set a vaccination target that will reach 10_per_cent more; then, or do not plan to complete the target or miss us doses of the vaccine. But I have things, Counselor, that I don't understand. That's right, he reads all his press notes to me carefully. And this, counsel, is the other side of the system; it's the face that doesn't show excellence in the system. Because we want excellence also to be universal. And you know, and you yourself recognized it before in an answer, that urgent cases work for us, but then day by day is a disaster. And this day you have cares, you have face, and hope is painful, and you know it, because you're lost from work hours, because it's a CAP walk to something else, and things can't be like that. I want a public system of which I can be proud of everything, of quality, but also of fairness, and above all that you don't expel anyone, because, besides, it's the way to empower great threads, the best search, but also to extend, as I said, excellence to all the people. Look, these last few days you've presented us with a unique brand for the health system. When you were talking about this unique brand, you told us that you would avoid confusion and create identity. I'd like to tell you, and finally, that people don't have any confusion, because people don't know if they're going to the ICS or the Siscat. Because if I do now, and even if there are more Members, I ask: « See, who knows the eight hospitals that are ICS? Some troubles would have been, huh? , to say the eight, who are the ICS. Mr. Soler's sure he knows, and so am I. And Mrs. Ribas, too. But I'm sure a lot of Members wouldn't know. And, therefore, people are equal to going to the ICS or going to the Siscat, they are equal to the sign that they have outside. And, therefore, I don't know if you're confusing this in any way. But you talked a lot about identity, because you will create identity of salvation. And identity is created by the recognition of the system; identity is created by feeling part of something that you can feel proud of; identity is created by the integration of all those who want to come here because they have a good health system, and not expulsion; identity is created by not wanting to go away, and you are looking at our health system from the rest of the country's health systems: it does not go to the interterritorial council, aim late at shared clinical history, and do not participate in global shopping, which lowers costs. If you want to create identity, believe first and keep what we have so far had: a good system of salvation. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.114.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word has the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.115.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Miri, in the first place, MP... I mean, we're clear with the data, we're clear with the data, and above all we don't serve headlines, we're not serving data from the 27 percent they advertise to us, right? Associations that know neither how to draw data nor how to compare them. Therefore, given that we can have all and that they are comparable. Because if we talk about resources we want to talk about the resources we have to make the assumption of the Government of Catalonia, which absolutely prioritizes the policies of salvation with this 40_per_cent destined for the policies of salvation. I do not want to compare GDP. Or is it that we make the assumptions respect our GDP? Or is it that we are given a wealth of resources in accordance with Catalonia's GDP? Hey, aren't you like that? Obviously, we cannot compare GDP. But we can compare ourselves to the other territories that have a greater volume of the population. And we have the per capita spending destination in highest salutation between Catalonia, Valencia, Madrid, Andalusia... – forgiveness, Valencia, I mean –; the highest we have, with 1,388,3_euros. Among the territories that contribute most to the financing of the State of Catalonia is the one that has the highest per capita expenditure: Catalonia, 1,388,3, obviously; Valencia Country; Balears, and Madrid, which is 1,253,8_euros. So, let's talk about data, compare the data to what you can compare. And I've told you a thousand times, we can't compare ourselves in waiting lists with other autonomous communities. 2010 – 2010 –, which we held in higher salvation, of 10,300_million euros, and then it was detailed for austerity policies..., the last three years have run out of detail, efforts have intensified. 2018 comes to 10,400_million euros; it's a 17.9_per_cent inversion higher than the 2013 expense, it's the highest health inversion rate in our country. Therefore, the effort – the effort – of the Government of the Government of Catalonia and absolutely the priority of this Parliament in the policies of salvation is absolutely clear. And I've said it many times too: no, don't beat it; not because I don't want to do it, but because it's not the solution to those challenges that you also identify here. And I must say clearly: we are doing much more activity, we are doing much more and we are doing better. And the demand will continue to grow. We have a brutal setback in this country. And it's not to come here and make an inquiry and say ole, ole, no? , as I have heard here from your group, « ole, what a good thing it has done, no? , say how badly the health system works. Forgive me, he won't find anyone – he won't find anyone – like this government that is struggling to maintain the health system. Because I could also tell the city deputy that before he asked me the question where they were when this Parliament was trying to shield the universal character of salvation. We were you? [[Greetings.]] We were you? They were in forbearance – they were in forbearance. I had to ask the President of the Spanish Government, in this case the Socialist Party, to withdraw the unconstitutionality appeal he had to our Law of Universalization of Salvation. We were all, when someone was conspiring before Jorge Fernández Díaz and Daniel de Alfonso to destroy the health system? Where were you? - Where were you? The voice has been raised when the new treatment of hepatitis C has been introduced and now, in the midst of the electoral campaign, the PSOE is dedicated to announcing that Health Finance doesn't know what. Sanitary finance what? - Sanitary finance what? The Government of the Government of Catalonia will finance the drug to stop smoking, finance the Prep and finance it absolutely without an extra hard from the Spanish State. So where are we when we have to ask ourselves or when we have to defend the health system with the resources that we can have at our disposal? Where are you? They're not – they're not. They're not there, Mrs. Escarp, they're not there. Therefore, if we want to talk about data – and I said this, and we have a system that obviously responds and that we are working absolutely in all this – we have a phase, we have a few folds of new surgical indications where much more people can enter, because we are much better controlling their chronic pathology, because we have increased survival, because we increase life expectancy. And, therefore, this has a global impact on the whole health system; a global impact that it does is to increase the activity that we have in both surgical interventions and diagnostic tests. Let's increase the activity. So I don't want to talk about a group of waiting lists, about 160,000 people, but, as you said, we need to talk about these people and what they expect. And so that's why we did the audits, that's why we're working center to center and that's why we now have a new area of citizenship, user experience and innovation that will focus on what's going on during the wait. Because although it is complete, it is possible to complete all the terms that we have of guarantee and reference in each of the phases of this accessibility, despite this, the citizenry can have the perception that is expected. And we also want to give all the information during this wait. We treat citizenship as it is – as it is – and therefore with absolute respect – with absolute respect. And, therefore, we want to improve as we accompany the citizenry to the length of the wait. The repte is huge... and it's so huge... like coming here to ask parliamentary questions with a sense of meaning, isn't it? , to say: "It's all going badly and it's all drifting. There's a whole system – there's a whole system – that's working, that's working day by day, from primary care to hospitals, to give response to all this. To the primary attention, you know – you know – any person who needs it can be treated the same day, who meets the urgent needs and salvation problems that go there, the non-delayables that go there, and also those unthankful spontaneouss that can be delayed. The 45_percent of CAP visits we have today are spontaneous. This hasn't happened in years. Therefore, our demand is changing, as the citizenry wants to access our health system is changing, and we..., it is our responsibility to manage this demand as close as possible. We make 3.5_million visits every month – every month – from mid-January, to primary care; there are 31.6_million visits made in 2019 in this primary care. And so, when we calculate accessibility, obviously, we don't pose these spontaneous visits that are fan and that are resolvable on the same day. We can manage demand, we can do it absolutely with professional policies, and that's why we approached the professional forum. And what I can't accept is that you say that we're acting like inertia – like inertia – because we've put ourselves full, we've put ourselves all together. Because, if we acted as inertia, we would not have made the Forum of Professional Dialeg..., we would not have ensured from universities to all colleges, unions, health organizations, to have for the first time a full route in the policies of professionals in salvation. For the first time there is a full route of professional policies in health. I can't answer for planning a few years back; I can answer for what we're doing here today, and we're looking forward to the future; I can answer for the decisions that we're going to take today, that I'm sure I won't open up as a counselor, or my team, and that we're taking them today because we want to guarantee this health system and this sustainability in the future, because we're playing this future, we're playing a fundamental right of a society that has said clearly, and it has said in this Parliament, that you have very clearly that the right to salvation is a fundamental right that you can..., that you want to keep in this future country. Therefore, look at the dice, look at them, look at them. We have more GDP, we have more expenditure per head, and obviously we don't think we can compare in this and, obviously, the accessibility decree is not in the cat salut, it's in the formalities that correspond to it, that begin in the cat salut with the public information that surrounds it. In this, we're working. Therefore, we, the one we have to do in this management of the demand for primary care up to all the circuits that have and that you know are complex in the health system, we have to make the demands there are attested to by the most suitable professionals according to the value they bring to each consultation. This means that primary care needs to be reformed. This means that the whole system has to work much better between care levels. That means we're making a brutal effort with the Homrani advisor to work hand in hand. That means all this and that is all we are doing and we will not stop doing, despite the political criticisms that you want to do here in Parliament. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.116.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the return, again, of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.117.0	Miri, counselor. I don't need no oil. I come here, work and do the work I think we have to do. [[Some applause.]] And the job we do is the job of controlling the government. It is the impulse work of new policies and, moreover, I will say it clearly: I don't need any oil because I don't put myself on the defensive. I am trying, together with my group, to make constructive proposals and we have done so, and I will do it for my own sake. And we'll demand that everything that comes up here is complete. And, therefore, that's what's there. This is a parliament, and it seems that sometimes we lose a little sight of the world. Look, it's true, and I give it the reason: the health system is underfunded, just as it is... But there's a decision that it's exclusive to the Government of the Generality, that with the money coming to Catalonia, which is the part of the assumption that they dedicate to Salut. And the year 2010, ai, or the year 2009, the year 2010, was dedicated 40_% of the Generality's premise, to Salut; to the last approved premise, that of the year 2018, was dedicated 32_%, that of 2017, forgiven. It means that there is a political decision and a political will to allocate more or less money to Salut. You're talking about a reversal, a expense, 10,400_million. But, look, counselor, it turns out that the last one we have approved in presupposition is the 9,000 of the presupposition of 2017. And so... Of course, it's that you don't want to compare, you don't want us to compare, and, certainly, in order not to compare, you've passed the same answer comparing yourself: comparing yourself to Andalusia, comparing yourself to not knowing what, comparing yourself to GDP... That's to say, we're comparing ourselves or not comparing ourselves, we have systems that are homologable or not having them. I understand that we have systems that can be approved because this is what the Ministry of Health explains and why the systems are discussed in the Interterritorial Council. Now, listen, if you don't want to compare... But in any case, we do have a problem, because there is a higher expense than it is reflected in the assumption, and I hope that in this 2020 assumption it is recognized, because it is an expense of more than 1,400_millions respect the 2017 assumption. So, of course, what do they compare it to? With the premise, but as you don't present it, so there's no way to do the right thing. You asked me where we are. I'll tell him where we are. We are in the Parliament of Catalonia, but we are also in the Government of the State. We're calling the dialy. We put forward some general assumptions that you didn't vote for which they made a lot more money to get things out of the health system. And we're doing something else that's here and the commissions are asking you to go to the interterritorial committee to demand the debt. If it is true, as they have said these days, that there is a debt respect for the compensations for interventions that are made in other communities, why not go there and claim it? Why don't you go over there and claim what they give you from hepatitis C? Why don't they really believe in the dialog and they're going to claim what's on us? Because, listen, I'm standing next to him, uh, claiming what's on us, if it's true that he doesn't get paid... So, things... Anyway, I'm trying to find a solution, and I'm not trying to... I've said it and I'll always say it. We have a good health system, but what I don't want is for him to lose. Or, if we do, somehow, slow down, all folds, I'll also say it: that's why I don't want to lose a good health system, just like I don't want to lose a good education system or a good public service system that inertia is carrying us, inertia and detailing us are bringing us to... I was going to say in horror, but maybe it's not entirely correct, but in any case we'd say it's not a good one. You said: "The demand is changing. Yes, but the demand has been changing for some time now. And they let go of the time acting with inertia. And, above all, I'm doing that thing that I've always criticized, which is that they believe great structural plans. That's already... we've set it up, we've set it up, and they think big structural plans. This was already done by Councillor Comín, who I referred to as the government of powerpoint. But these structural plans, the ENAPISC, the PLANUC, now the forum of the professions..., has no reflex in the day-to-day, or still have no calendars, no execution, no assumptions. And then I don't know what they're for. What is obvious is that we need resources to face up to one day a day, which, what we say – and today we have fixed it on the waiting lists, but we can fix it on professional failure and we can fix it on many other things – in a day a day that doesn't work. We need these resources and we need to know that these structural plans, if they're good and they work and they're what we have to do, they have equipment, calendars, systems of execution and, above all, they have resources, because, if not, it's another toast to the sun that we're used to. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.118.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, to make the reply also has the word, again, the counselor. Lady Vergés...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.119.0	All right. Thank you, Congresswoman. You know perfectly well... that the Health Committee and the Members and Members that we have been here, that we have shared many hours, we always try to work together and share a pass for the health system. You know perfectly well. And I never put myself on the defensive, and I hardly do, because I don't want to get into this policy because I'm trying to put care and I'm trying to put names on these figures and people. Although I'm trying that, aren't I? I find many groups in the chamber that do this, ask the president, ask the councilwoman, in questions. And, honestly, I know it's very hard because I exactly put care and name to those waits. And respect very much those waits. And I'm saying that, I'm saying that despite the fact that we're fulfilling the terms. And I have explained this: although you comply with the terms of guarantee and with the terms of reference, that, by the way, they are much more than they have in other territories of the Spanish State, much more so, we have more guarantee and more reference than in other territories of the Spanish State, although you do, hope can be felt for those people who have faces and have names, in a certain way. And, therefore, out of respect for this, I always try – always try – to base myself on this. You said: "You don't make so many structural plans. In waiting lists, precisely, I have said this here many times in answers to questions: what we do is managed, managed and managed. We've done center-to-center audits; we're working hand-in-hand with each of the centers to see where they have the problems, in what types of pathologies, if they come conditioned for the operating hours they have at their disposal, if they're conditioned for the professionals they have and work with each of them: they've managed, managed and managed. In accessibility commissions, to which I have been able to go some, to which people of my team went, where we are sharing how accessibility is in each of the things. We publish, month by month, by center, each of the surgical interventions and each diagnostic test the access time it has. Month by month they have the data available, not you as a Member, but all the citizens of Catalonia. Therefore, the effort is maximum and respect is also maximum to give information to citizens. And we've put ourselves in full and that's why I can't accept you saying we're acting out of inertia. That's why we did the Professional Dialeg Forum, we created a new general professional direction; a new general professional direction. In primary attention, which we have put as one of the priorities of this legislature, we have put a strategic direction of Primary Care, a person with names and surnames who will be dedicated absolutely to this, with another person who is in the Cat Salut working, also, only for primary care. This wasn't there, this is today and this is a sign of this insistence on all the transformation we need to make. And when I tried to explain to the members of the Health Commission how I felt about this brand Salut and what I wanted to say, for me, this identity, I said... I didn't say it was meant to avoid confusion, or I didn't mean to say it that way. I'm sure I said it would help the transformations that we have to make, because everyone knows that we don't work for a centre, we work for a system, we have to work in a network, and that we know professionally, that citizenship knows, that the managers of our health care system know, that the most connected to the Health Department directly, our own territories, or all the entities that are managing health in our country. Therefore, collaboration, everything, but let's say it: let's not fail to go and say absolutely nothing about what is close to Catalonia at the level of the Spanish State. And we have claimed these debts that the Spanish State has with us to each of the lists of incompliments that we have had. And the Minister of Economy came out of his party yesterday, and more so, there is already a system of compensation between autonomous social security communities. Social security? Since the 86's, that sanitation is not linked to social security, and that's what the Minister of Economy of your party said. Therefore, cry to heaven, too, as we are. We are 32,6_million euros that since 2012 they are not compensating, we are not seeing them at all. And to the people, we'll take care of her and we'll keep an eye on her. It can't be any other way. But we also ask for justice. We ask that it is done in a fair way and we ask, above all, that we can continue to develop our system, that it is a pioneer and that it wants to continue to feel that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.120.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on policies for the prevention of maladies]] 300-00210/12 Let's move on to the next inquiry, which is about the policies for the prevention of ludopathies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. To expose it has the word the deputy Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.121.0	Good morning. Counselor, I told him in the end full with a question and we thought the topic was worth developing. In fact, I'm sure we'll be short, even with this question and with the motion we can make later on about the problem we're going to talk about: the playthings. The last few years have quadrupled the number of playthings, while obviously the economic amount played and the winnings of the betting houses, online games and casinos have also disappeared. Especially problematic are sports bets and, especially, the future online, games and bets online. According to the report of the second quarter of 2019 of the online gambling market, in Spain the amount of money played in the second quarter of 2019, this year, has remained of 4,627_million euros. Let's talk about unorbited quantities. But it does not only serve the global quantity but also the comparison with a few years back. Reality is an exponentially growing phenomenon. Compared to four years ago, it's twice as much as it was playing online games and online bets. Compared to the same period, according to quarter of year 2015 or 2019. Online gambling is not only accessible twenty-and-four hours, all the days of the year, but, besides, it is very difficult to control – I don't mean it's impossible – that there are no fewer accesses. There were psychologists, who also told her the other day, that they already compare the situation with the epidemic of heroin addiction that ruined the lives of so many young people in the 1980s. This is already a difficult, epidemic issue, to deal with, as the problem of first order of public salvation. Ludopathy generates economic debts to the person, family problems and mental health problems. Another sign of public salvation: it is the third cause of suicide in Spain. Certainly, he's not present in the suicide prevention codes. The whole fold is turning, as I said, into a problem of salvation, a problem – they understand the salvation of its most holistic future – that it would be useful to be addressing from the leadership of public salvation and a socio-sanitary problem. And that's what we're claiming. But you don't just have to approach some of this kind either. We want to lead this preventive approach, but we want the global approach. And we have to make it clear: we have the skills to do it. Obviously, competitions in the field of health and prevention, but also regulation of the sector. The Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, in its article 141, recognizes the exclusive competence of the Government of Catalonia in the matter of games, gambling and casinos, one of the articles that was not rolled out by the Constitutional Court, while the People's Party also tried with this one. Catalonia, in fact, has laws, has decrees, has regulations on this subject, but they are laws of the eighty years, regulations and decrees basically from the time of the tripartite and, therefore... necessary adaptation and urgent, necessary adaptation to the reality existing today. For example, the one they were describing at the beginning, that of the online game, that does not appear in the laws or in good part of these decrees. To the band of the question that I asked to the Ple passed, the last times that we talked about the game and the playpathies in this Ple were in July 2016, with an inquiry and a motion that caused, among others, that a work commission is created on prevention and attention to social addictions and ICTs, with a very concrete task: to make an integral protocol of prevention, detection and action to reduce cases of ICT dependence, before becoming addiction, and a specific and differentiated strategy for young and young people. It's been three years since that young man. The ICT table was created, but it met twice and there were no tangible results. Obviously, there is no such preventive protocol strategy or specific child-specific strategy. How much more have we talked about gambling and playthings in this Parliament the past few years? When we talked about the casino macroproject Barcelona World, recreation center of Vila-seca i Salou. Some of us have done this over and over again to warn of the hard mistake that is being made with this project in terms of the country's business model, tourism, the environment, but above all, because it is betting for a casino tourism, and this has a serious effect on a society with growing ludopathy. In summary, ludopathy as the problem grows in public health: it grows the name of people affected, it lowers the ages. Undisputable regulatory capacity, in many respects, on this subject. We haven't developed much, but there aren't many that are very, very green, especially the most predictable aspect, and the ones that are developed require updating. And the only big change that's been on this subject the past few years has been to make it easier for there to be a Barcelona World, with six more casinos, the biggest casino in southern Europe, and that you're in Catalonia. The image that we have of the government, the image that the people of Acencas have, to whom we appreciate the work that they do constantly and the work that they have done also to help us prepare this intervention, the image that is the woman and the messages that they give from the government with the will to fight against the ludopathies are not hopeful people. People. I'm asking you this question because we want you to change, to move from inaction in prevention to real action, and to leave and abandon actions that are precisely countered in the fight against ludopathy like the government. What do we need to do about it? Therefore, we must consider the issue as a matter of public health; to understand that it is a regulatory framework, mandatory legal standards, updates of existing ones; we must know what we are facing, dimension; we must regularly, limit access, limit promotions and advertisements, and call for treatment as for people who are already suffering from ludopathies. And I go into detail in some of these aspects. To know what we are talking about, therefore, to study: we do not have data, we have data from the Health Survey, from Public Health, to keep the magnitude of the pathological game; to identify the profiles of people at greater risk. A profile that, according to data on the Spanish level, has radically changed in the later years, from a person of forty, fifty years, with basic studies and work, to a person under thirty, probably university students, and without work and without myself. We can hear about playthings now, which are not developed in seven, eight, two years, but in one and two – in one and two. We need a comprehensive preventive strategy in the field of education, also with the faculty, also with families and with society in general. And, therefore, information campaigns of community action and planning of this prevention and, therefore, qualified for the ICT table, in order to be able to do the work that the Parliament has already entrusted to it. We need regular, update existing laws and decrees. For example, to limit even more the physical space that the physical spaces of gambling, casino, business can have. Also tools to limit accessibility to online games. I can do it. From hiding access to public establishments, as for example the Barcelona Assembly has already done, but also effective limitation of access by minors. You can try tools in this sense, especially in physical gambling spaces, or try to ban promotions of the good type for free, which are doing very badly. We need to limit advertising. I'll expand there later, if any, in the turn of the reply, because it's a particularly more complicated issue and in this case we don't have the regulatory capacity, especially. We need to improve the treatment tools. We have pathological gambling units in Catalonia, but not well equipped, not with sufficient resources and professionals, and we have these resources. And for all intents and purposes, of which I am obviously telling us resources. And the same sector generates it. There's taxes on the game. We guarantee that the game is intended to be equipped enough to be able to provide this treatment and prevention. Therefore, data, prevention, regulation of access and advertising and treatment, but above all, it is government. Cal voluntat, cal to end the inaction, which is supposed to be regular – and to act above all – on this subject, and that there are no actions absolutely contrary to the government that, in fact, feed the addictions, as it is making Catalonia its own of the major casino of southern Europe. We haven't talked to the government again in the control session, and it seems, she advises, that the government is not aligned with what you probably will tell me here, that we need to fight the ludopaths, when we have four big casinos in Catalonia..., we are increasing it with six more, with the only legislative change that has taken place in recent years, to make a macro-case between Vila-seca and Salou. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.122.0	To answer the question, the greeting counselor has the word. Lady Vergés, when she wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.123.0	All right. Thank you, Congresswoman. For the question of the other day, which we talked about later, I said: "Let's work it out. I mean, let's work it out, let's talk about everything that's been done. We can explain and, above all, follow and make proposals. It looks like adient. I give thanks, too, to the people of Acencas, who have been working for many years to reduce what is a problem – and you have said this – not only in our country, but for what we are dealing with and for what responsibility we have, it is a problem in our country. I like the focus on it, don't I? , this focus on wanting you to be leaders of Public Health, wanting you to be leaders with prevention policies. Because it seems to me that it is an adjunct focus of what we need to do and, above all, because we can learn from things of the past, from other things that are very different, but that they also have to see and, obviously, are also addictions. You compared it to the epidemic of the 1980s, the 1990s, of heroin in our country. Obviously, the behaviour is very different, but it does see a flood, which has changed in a few years, which has changed the way of relating information technologies, the new technologies of Catalan society..., and also, obviously, and very especially, in that younger population. The new technologies that are impacting us all, and have this important impact on our youth, for this access that you said, right? : twenty-four hours a day, 365 days a year. With new ways to capture the youngest audience, with 24_percent of the 14-year-old population, 84_per_cent is playing video games and 54_per_cent is what we call e-sports... And the ICTs, which have many positive things, and we have highlighted them here, and they also help us a lot in our development, obviously they have facilitated access to that denial as well. And, above all, I would like to point out that this innocent perception that we still have as a society of which we can represent the pathological game and the ludopathies and the nine forms of ludopathies that we have in our country. And it says innocent perception, because everyone sees much easier when a young person, in this case, can be addicted to tobacco or alcohol, but no one is alarming, until it's too late, when that person is betting online, to give an example. There is this social game, but there is also a severe addiction, which has a great interaction in which are personal relationships and a difficulty for everyday life, like any other addiction. And obviously an addiction is absolutely linked to mental health problems, and that's why we have integrated, into the same director and the same integral plan, mental health and addictions. You said: "We need data. We need to be able to work with the data we have. The prevalence of our cases in pathological gambling units has been spectacular from 2011 to 2017, of visits, of people in treatment, of the pathological gambling fee, which is over 0.9, and a 4.4_percent of the population presented some risk behavior; of the average age of the game – the game with online money in students of fourteen years old– ; in Catalonia we have a median age of 14.6 years old, it is very young; of the type of game; of the younger age... The stakes for the Internet and above all the sports, which in many cases are due to the fact that we have to say a lot about which policies we have to do from this, are located in the first place, so that they have a major access to it. And Internet addictions and bets, 2010 were 9.8_per_cent and 2018 were 21.5_per_cent. That's spectacular changes. Since 2010, the prevalence of sports betting has multiplied by six– since 2010 has multiplied by six–; since 2005 it has multiplied by sixty-two– since 2005 it has multiplied by sixty-two–; this means that in a few years there is a spectacular change in pipelines, as we have seen in our society. Change, too, of user profiles, younger– 37,3_per_cent are smaller than divided years–, higher level of studies, more online play, especially, as I said before, these sports bets. So, yes, we can talk about having a public salvation problem in this. And obviously the treatment units that we have are important, and I think we need to put them in value, because more and more are doing a great job, and they have also had to adapt to all these changes that we are living with, with these eleven pathological play units that we have in our country, with the Bellvitge centers, the Clinic, to Sant Pau, Sant Joan de Deu, Mataró, Manresa, Terrassa, Lleida, Girona and Reus, in an inversion, 2019, which has remained at 571,000_euros, with a treatment that in the vast majority of cases is associated with behavioral cognitive therapy, with integration, as well as addictions to mental health, so that we can put the person in the center, and that we are all sharing it. And we're not talking about drugs alone anymore – we've already stopped talking about drugs – we're talking about addictions in general. And this is our challenge, of power, in this integral plan of attention to mental health and addictions, which has in its objective 2.5 to prevent the new pathologies related to the use of information and communication technologies... It was created, as you said, effectively, this ICT work commission, which is not a table, it is an ICT work commission, which has to do a global, comprehensive, preventive, detection and attention plan. He met six times, not two, as I said, but he met six times, last November, and he already has a very advanced background document to continue working on this protocol that you also noted. In the Pla Director of Mental Health and Additions 2017-2020, we have different programs that we are deploying, such as the Fitjove program, which promotes sport as a healthy oci alternative and reduces vulnerability before addictions. We have a new plan on drugs and behavioral addictions; therefore, they are already embedded, in the titles and in all the chapters that surround, behavioral addictions. And we have this plan to address comprehensively prevention, early detection and attention to addiction-related issues. You said, we incorporate, we have to incorporate behavioral addictions into all our policies – it's a public health problem – and so we do and so we are working on this new drug plan. And we're working on it too... you were complaining regularly, weren't you? I said it the other day: the new law of addiction does not only update us all that we have been talking about with respect to tobacco – that there have also been things that did not exist when the law was made at the time, such as electronic cigarettes – but that incorporates, this new law of addiction, obviously all the chapter of these new addictions to technologies and online gambling. Establishment and regulation of preventive measures and actions and assistance is what will be incorporated into this new law of additions. And that's why we're asking that..., with this responsibility that we have as the Parliament of Catalonia to shield – because we're the legislature – for all these policies that we have to face for the future, so we can work on folds, because at the end of the day the perspective that you gave here in the inquiry for me is right and it's just as we are working on it. We're working on a lot of things... that now won't give me time to replicate. I do want to explain to you specifically respect young people and specifically what we are doing in the educational sphere, because you have the margin, don't you? , and we have competitions at stake, but we don't get to everything that affects our youth and everything that has an impact on it, despite the fact that we have a margin of competence, as is the case with advertising, as is the case with everything that we can do through the ACC. But we are. In the suicide risk code... – obviously you, as you said, right? , third cause, suicide –, the suicide risk code treats all the cases that may involve an attempt to autolysis. Therefore, we do work in the pathological game and in the corresponding units. And, obviously, this more petition for data to be able to work very well is where we are insisting on being able to make the law that is close and to be able to make and to deploy all the policies that are close to this department.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.124.0	Thank you, Counselor. It's the congresswoman's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.125.0	Well, thank you, Counselor. I read it before there was a punch that left me hanging. I want to touch it and don't forget me. It is the theme of advertising, a case in which we do have limitations of competitions at the state level, but some of us have also placed it on the table. United We can condition the presupposition agreement of 2019 – the one that was not approved because Esquerra Republicana voted against, certainly – to a regulation of gambling advertising and limiting stakes, as in the case of tobacco and alcohol. There are also things that happen in other autonomous communities. The Madrid Assembly unanimously approved the total ban on gambling advertising and bets on the community's public media. The Basque Country has done it too. Catalonia has had a compromise this past summer and an application of this compromise of, at the public media of the corporation, not having advertising of games and bets, if I wasn't wrong, in children's hours, in hours of child protection; it can go further there. But, in addition, we also have regulatory capacity to respect audiovisual communication. Why not also modify the Catalonia Audiovisual Communication Law because all audiovisual communication media that are based on Catalan audiovisual media or that receive public subsidies must also be completed with no gambling advertising and bets? And why not eliminate gambling and gambling in public spaces, in transportation, in cultural events or sports that can be used for public purposes? A lot of public help, by the way. In this we also have regulatory capacity. Therefore, there is no absolute capacity on the subject of advertising or promotion, but it is not very important and of great importance if it is to develop. They're working, counselor, and we congratulate each other, that they're working, but we want terms and terms. While you were working, the Barcelona City Council made a specific plan for this topic; it didn't just do it and published it, but it applied it, and it's starting to give results. It's good they're working, but we want you to finish. When will this law, counsel, of addictions? When are the rest of the laws changed? Are they coming from this, or are we going to have to do the band? When are sufficient resources in the treatment units? When is this overall planning of the preventive part of this commission or ICT table? When will it be? "It is very elaborate, she said; when will it be? We want concrete commitments, Counselor. We want concrete commitments because the people who are patenting it suffer a lot in solitude, with the help of collectivities, from the rest of the victims, but a lot in solitude respects the follow-up of the Public Administration. And we're talking, more and more, that every time we focus more, and we clearly have examples of publicity and promotions, of disadvantaged social classes, of younger people and of people with less vital resources to get out of it, of the problem that causes them ludopathy. Therefore, we call Public Administration that is concerned about its people, and that means bravery, that means ending, that means working, yes, but it means working in this job. For all these people, for all this sense of inactivity of the past few years, for all this sense of contradiction from a government that promotes being theirs in the largest casino in southern Europe, we will set up a motion with measures to tackle this problem that affects public safety; measures to ban advertising from gambling operators, to curb their expansion, to encourage global prevention measures that respect ludopathy and to strengthen inspection – on which they also have powers – sanctions – over which we have a law – and the vigilance of these activities. And obviously finally abandoning the Hard Rock project and repealing the legislation that gives it coverage, because, if not, we would be doing one thing with one hand and the other with the counter, and hardly all the preventive policies that are made from public health will be able to compensate for what is done from a macrocase that is being driven by the same government of the Generality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.126.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, for the reply has the word "Hello Counselor".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.127.0	Thank you, Vice President. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report. Therefore, from the Health Department we are clear that everything you do will not come strictly from us, but we do want to lead all these prevention policies from public health, and therefore we work together with the Education Department, with the Catalan Youth Agency, with the Department of Treball, with Social Affairs and Families, with the CAC and with the Cesicate, with the Secure Internet program, in order to address in a coordinated way all this preventive and early-care approach. The ACC, as you said, since June 30th, which we noticed the other day... the Catalan media have eliminated online gambling and gambling advertising. That the Spanish government can also do its job in this. And, therefore, since you will be part of this new Government of the Spanish State, you will also need the same courage, which is defended at all times and which is still able to do so there, because in the end there are so many things that we get here – and in audiovisual media it is clearly so – that you obviously come out of what we can do through the ACC and through other regulatory tools that we can have. And they look at it and they get it, and they have all the impact on our young people and the people in general: Therefore, it must also be worth everything to claim that these changes and transformations are being made. Collaboration with the ACC, with the eduCAC program, right? , which is the agreement with the Terrassa Sanitary Consortium, Bellvitge, Sant Joan de Deu in the design of teaching units to work at schools, at five, at the primary and at ESO, on gambling and the use of video games, and as well as healthy habits in general and pants. It will do a pilot study to identify the effectiveness of this program. We want to start programs, we want to get the data to know its effectiveness, we want this to be absolutely scalable everywhere, and, therefore, they always have to be analyzed and they always have to evaluate the programs that we're going to get, that I have hope and it seems to me that they will give us a lot of good results. And, therefore, we have already started this; although we still don't have the law of addictions, all these things have already started them; like the ACC is also conforming to a job to update..., for recommendations from the ACC addressed to the audiovisual media for the information treatment of drugs, gambling, gambling and other behavioral addictions. Because it's not all the announcements, it's also the way we explain or deal with certain issues, and that's cool, and that's what we've been living with a lot of fears like the stigma of certain things, and that's what we've seen, too, isn't it? , in the fight against tobacco, which has been essential to strengthen it every time. And when young, obviously, by combining communication and information technologies, the diffusion of preventative messages addressed to young people is enhanced through two plataforms we have, one is the Pep. info and the other is Clara. info, that they are 14 to 16 year olds, with 19,900 visitors in 2018, and in girls, 119,000 visitors in 2018, where messages, reflections also around the use of screen; it is to say, videos and messages that make them reflect, right? , about how they're using their pants today, and so we can prevent what we don't want from happening. It is an extensive directory of information that is absolutely directed to the young people of this country and also to professionals who work with them and them. Greetings. cat, which is a web portal with a wide range of information not only about drugs, but also incorporates all these behavioral addictions. And with Education, prevention; with young people, we know that it is the most effective and that, therefore, we cannot leave our education and we must work together with them. Every year we are doing multiple activities in the territory's classrooms: "The adventure of life, up to 178 educational centers; vocational training, training is key if we want to make preventive policies that have effect; professional training, training aimed at teachers and professionals working with adolescents with the aim of preventing pathological uses in digital environments. In the Health and School program, obviously, where we have to incorporate it, there were 631 health education activities related to addictions. And all that's what I think together we need to go hard together with everything you've been proposing here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.128.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Proposal for a resolution on accession to the Endecáleg and the work plan for the implementation of the Social Pact against the stigma and discrimination of people with HIV]] [[250-01084/12]] We continue to move to the sixth item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the proposal for a resolution to accede to the Endecág and the work plan for the implementation of the Social Pact against the stigma and discrimination of people with HIV. As the proposal has been submitted jointly for all parliamentary groups and sub-groups, and in accordance with that granted to the Bureau and the Board of Spokespersons, we will open a single five-minute intervention round for each parliamentary group and sub-group. It has the word, in the first place, to fix its position, the deputy Blanca Navarro, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.129.0	Thank you, President. First of all, to greet the representatives of the One December Committee who are accompanying us today and to thank us for encouraging us to discuss this motion for a resolution. Soon we can say that HIV has been among us for forty years. We have lived, as a society, the eruption of the virus in our history. In the 1980s we began to see with astonishment and fear how some of us were taken among ourselves. From here my memory for those who have abandoned us for AIDS; also my affection for their families and friends who saw with impotence how they left so many, when it was barely known where the disease came from. As a Western society, during these forty years we have followed the advances of science, which first managed to discover the virus, then molecules that slowed the progression of the disease, and we have marveled at the discovery of new drugs that make HIV no longer an unbeatable enemy. Looks like we've done the hardest thing. Mankind had never achieved such powerful scientific developments in such a short time. In just forty years, we have drugs within our reach that have turned HIV infection into a chronic situation, at least, within our reach in our first world. But, although it seems that the most difficult thing is to change the course of nature, as a society we still have very important outstanding tasks. We have not yet been able to deal with HIV in terms of the human and social aspects. Year by year, the representatives of the One of December platform present the same demands of issues that, apparently, would be more achievable than advances in pharmacology to stop the progression of the virus, but that they already see, in the same we are, year by year. They are measures to curb stigma, to promote a change in the image of people with HIV in society and to address serophobia. Measures to prevent and protect against discrimination in the field of work, health and access to social resources. With HIV, medically advanced, but we continue to struggle with the social pandemic of stigma. Thanks to the entities, for your perseverance and for continuing to demand these measures. In this motion for a resolution, we are debating whether to adhere to the work plan for the implementation of the Social Pact against the stigma and discrimination of people with HIV, ratified by the Commission Delegate of the Interdepartmental Commission on AIDS in Catalonia. Of course they have our support, but what are we talking about, when entities ask Parliament to show its support for the work plan of a subcommittee of a government department committee? And they ask us to do it better in a motion for a resolution than in a manifesto. What are we talking about? So, beyond the establishment of commissions, subcommittees, action plans, territorial pacts, what is needed is the immediate deployment of the social pact, with a budget allocation. A proper budget to achieve this, to implement the whole territory, because if not, on December 1, 2020, we will be the same as this year, just like last year, reading a manifesto, voting on a motion for a resolution, to ask for another year, the same, without real progress being made in the fight against stigma and discrimination. Unfortunately, one more than we're used to. They need to move from good words to deeds. And that can only be achieved by putting resources in place so that people and people-centred policies are a necessity and a reality. And in this case, both the eradication of stigma, and of serophobia in society, are a reality. So they have all our support and they also have our commitment to make the follow-up of what is approved today in this chamber a reality, materializes and is fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.130.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congressman Raúl Moreno, the PSC Group and Forward Units.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.131.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the presence of the members and members of the First Committee of December, who accompany us today from the rostrum, and therefore also to thank them who have been, in the end, those who have prevented us from approving and debating this motion for a resolution on the National Accord to deal with the epidemic of the human immunodeficiency virus, and to fight against the stigma that still today plague infected people. Data tells us that, in relation to HIV, we don't have to lower our guard. In 2018, about 38_million people worldwide are infected with HIV. But, in addition, it is estimated that one_of_each_four people ignores that she has been infected. We're ahead of the tallest xifra in history. In Spain, and according to the last report published for the Ministry of Health a little more than a month ago, between 130,000 and 170,000 people are infected, of which one has not been diagnosed. And in the case of Catalonia, of the 3,244 cases detected in 2018 at national level, 613 have been in Catalonia. Even though reported AIDS cases have experienced a progressive decline, since 1996 and it is something that we must congratulate ourselves on as society, stigma, rebreeding, social discrimination against infected people continues to be a serious problem for our society. During all these years, basically, the different social collections of fighting AIDS, of the hands of institutions, of the hands of the health system and of the social system, have made a commendable task to give to know HIV, making campaigns of prevention and use of contraceptive methods to reduce infections, actively participating in detection and treatment, accompanying families when AIDS was synonymous with death, and now accompanying them also when AIDS continues to feel a synonym of discrimination. And that is why this motion for a resolution speaks to us: serophobia exists in our society and requires decisive action on the part of all, which must be enshrined in a social pact against stigma and discrimination against people with HIV. A widely-claimed pact for all entities, which is contemplated in the National AIDS Fighting Accord. A discrimination which, as is well specified in the debt proposed to us in this proposal, is given to the health care network, the prison system and the social equipment, whatever its title. Our health system, our social and labour system treats people living with AIDS differently, for whom it does surgical treatment, for their right to reproduction or for their ability to work. A person living with HIV suffers discrimination when he or she has to take out a mortgage, insurance or credit. Situations that, in full 2019, and after all the efforts of these past years, we don't just have to report, but we have to fight actively. Indecaleg talks about education, education as a central element of the knowledge of malalty, respect for diversity and the fight against discrimination. And the need to have mechanisms to detect, report and repair the discrimination situations that are produced. And, obviously, the need for empowerment, visibility and struggle against stigma. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, we can only agree with these basic lines of action, which must guide the social pact and which we hope that, in this case, the government will set the continuity of this pact as quickly as possible and that it will not happen to us as in some other previous legislatures, where it has gone much slower. Affected people in our country require our support and recognition and respect their rights and the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination. But we have to put our batteries in. The better health conditions of infected people, the medical adventures and the fact that today it can live with HIV have brought down the guard from a good part of the population, to highlight, the youngest collection. It may reinforce the message of the need for condom use to maintain occasional sexual relations; not only to prevent HIV, but the combination of sexually transmitted diseases. We must insist more that citizenship is being tested, if it has maintained risky sexual relations, and we must be loving the new sexual practices combined with drug use. At the same time, I would like to congratulate us on the introduction of the prophylaxis for exposure in our health system, which is a very important development in the preventive approach, which is widely claimed by the scientific communities and societies. And, finally, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to move forward, we would like to congratulate all of us, all of us, on our unanimous support for this proposal; to express our gratitude to the First Committee of December, and to acknowledge all the health professionals, social movements and citizens' communities, who continue to struggle tirelessly, decades ago, for...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.132.0	You're out of here, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.133.0	...to monitor the living conditions – I finish, president – of people infected for her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.134.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of Deputy Marta Ribas, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.135.0	Good morning, everybody. I don't think anyone should come out to this gallery today, at this point, without, first of all, saying: "Excuse me. The December 1st Committee guild manifesto, with World AIDS Day motto, as well as the motivating statement of this motion for a resolution, which we have signed all parliamentary groups, what they do is the chronicle of an oblivion. The chronicle of an oblivion of commitments adopted for this Parliament. Five years ago the approval of the Social Pact's impetus against discrimination against people living with HIV. Five years to get here, with the presentation of this endoclag of measures to be developed in an operating plan. And so, before we enter the matter, we should not fail to replace ourselves, all prayers, in a reflection on what it represents for the salvation and democratic quality of our country and our institutions, that parliamentary agreements are five years in a row. And here we all have responsibilities, in the degree of position we occupy each and every one of them. We read the criticism of HIV NGOs, we take our share of our control functions to the Government and, yes, we transfer them to other groups and to the Government the need to account for the shortcomings of the agreements, and the direct impact it has on social needs and on the rights and quality of life – as this is the case – that it has been five years delaying, incomplicating, whatever it is..., to get to this point when we begin to get a share of it. Okay. Deploying the Social Pact against Discrimination and Stigma of People with HIV was a priority of the NGO-Sida Platform of Catalonia. And I would like to acknowledge that, if we are here today, approving the accession of the Catalan Parliament to this initiative is for its work and persistence, not for the others. That's why I'm saying, first of all, I'm sorry. The Social Pact's Endecáleg points to 11 measures that refer to situations of discrimination and to the struggle against stigma, which still affect people living with human immunodeficiency virus today. The social pact must be the instrument for articulating public institutions, public services, social, health, educational, economic and business agents. The goal: to eradicate the stigma surrounding HIV. We have advanced a lot, it has already been said, in the fight against the pandemic of HIV and its effects on health, but we continue to paint the stigma of living with HIV and, as a result of widespread ignorance, but also as a result of the approach, of the approach model of prevention policies that have taken place so far, there is still serophobia. Therefore, developing country strategy to ensure the right to non-discrimination, prevention, visibility and empowerment is an essential issue of rights. Of the reptiles we have on the table, we can take necessary measures, in different questions – and I don't enlarge – I point them out, basically, because time is limited. The different forms of discrimination exercised by the same public services, which is why he gave them the same model with which he approached everything folded. It's a pending assignment, it can't be that there are still cases of discrimination and re-victimization to the public service system. People with HIV report violations of rights to the public health network: access to sexual and reproductive rights, treatment... Institutional discrimination, which must be addressed from every possible angle. It is necessary to address discrimination, obviously, by completing laws that we already have, such as the Law of Equality, such as the Law of the LGTBifóbia, not regulated, not developed, for much that has approved them – years ago – this Parliament. But also with the future Law of equal treatment and non-discrimination that, in this case, is being processed in this chamber. We must, too, that the right of work and having work opportunities with quality occupations is a reality. And that has to be a priority, because to a large extent, what there is in this type of discrimination, discrimination at work, is pure and harsh serophobia. We call sexual education, we call it a clear and strong country strategy to promote sexual education as a model of defence of human rights, which drives a vision of sexuality based on respect for diversity, non-violence, salvation, and pleasure. There is no better preventive policy, also for STIs, than sexual education. And in this sense, I am making myself available..., the rest of the Sexual Rights Intergroup, of sexual and reproductive health, because we have been working hard, and we are making ourselves available to the social pact so that we can also help in this strategy. And we obviously need research, research and support for medical and scientific research. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] and support HIV entities – I finish, President. Of course, from Catalonia to Comú Pode, we are pleased that we are joining Parliament today in this initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.136.0	You're out of your mind, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.137.0	We appreciate the work of the First of December Committee, but now that this initiative is being co-hosted for the rest of society...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.138.0	Ahabi, Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.139.0	... for the maximum number of social, labour and administrative sectors to which it also affects and involves. Thank you, everybody. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.140.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.141.0	Good morning. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, In the first place, we would like to thank the First Committee for the work it develops and, concretely, which allows us today to have this motion for a resolution and which we can talk about different questions. There has been or has not been this motion for a resolution without what the First Committee of December has done. Motion for a resolution that will allow us, for a band, to join the Catalan Parliament in the debt and, for a high band, also urge the Government of the Generality to implement the actions of the Social Pact against the stigma and discrimination of people with HIV. The implementation of this cooperative plan, which is derived from the debt, will also have an impact and an advantage – hopefully positive – in different areas, in the same area of discrimination, whether direct or indirect, in the same prevention of discrimination, through educational programs or training in diversity, in visibility and empowerment in the struggle against stigma and we also expect, in the assessment, in the implementation of the same social pact. Keep your amorous. We call for the social pact to be implemented. This cannot be a mere declaration of principles that coincide around the first of December, but must be concrete social policies with presuppositional endowments. To the band of those who build the operating plan, this parliamentary subgroup also humbly wants to provide some reflections, reflections that are related to the current moment and stage, to which the trap of stigma and discrimination can also be linked. First of all, the lack of social recognition of stigma. We could ask ourselves, in this House, how many Members or Members have this recognition of their existence or, at least, how many are willing or willing to assume that we have prejudices that are often the elements that can end up building the stigma. Also incomplete knowledge about HIV transmission. Even today, in the year 2019, there are sectors of society that are unaware of and not responsible for these sectors of society, but we have to hold those who need to develop certain social policies and do not or do not equip them with effective fans. And one last question too. Finally, the association of HIV with behaviors analyzed from a moral point of view. We are living, unfortunately, at the present stage, a return to a morale and a look of the reactionary and scientific society, and therefore, either we act to end these looks, above all, reactions and scientific ones, or we find that stigma can end up getting worse. Therefore, in order to end discrimination, we must end the stigma, but also, in order to end the stigma, we must eliminate through training and education those elements that determine its insistence. We have begun our intervention by making a reassessment at the First Committee of December, but we also want to go a little further, making a reassessment with regard to the pioneers and pioneers in the struggle against stigma. We want to remember, today, Larry Kramer and how, in the United States, the ACT UP partnership broke out and how, through direct action, they struggled because AIDS is spoken of, investigated AIDS and developed active social policies. This meant, after all, a new model based on direct action that he intended to raise awareness – and he got it – and make visible people who suffer from HIV. Direct action, too, at the time, was not a side event in itself, but sought a favourable legislative framework for scientific research and care for HIV-positive people and to address the end of the epidemic. Here, too, in our country, we have had an expression of ACT UP Barcelona, perhaps, most of what we are and who are here we do not remember, but if we remember and imagine a sign with the face of Jordi Pujol, then president of the Generalitat, year 91, and with the word 'AIDS in his mouth, we would remember that it was the complaint, that year 91, of, for a band, that there were 436 people who died of AIDS and then president of the Generalitat of Catalonia did not once, for a whole year, give the term 'AIDS. They should also have a reflection on how in those late eighty-first and northern principles, those who fought discovered that stigma also had an origin in non-intervention or institutional intervention. What does that mean? They found out how there were important sectors of the most affected by HIV that were absolutely out of the way, out of the way for their economic and material reality, which did not allow them to intervene politically. And we would also have to ask ourselves a second question, if, in fact, we have advanced further and further into what is going to be the investigation into AIDS that, at last, about stigma and that would have to find a certain answer. To end, again, with this recognition on the First of December Committee, entities of the First of December Committee have also participated in the same time as ACT UP did in history...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.142.0	You're running out of time, Mr. Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.143.0	... and I finish, Vice President, in the struggle against stigma and, therefore, also this recognition to those who, in the most difficult moments, have always been at the forefront of the struggle against stigma. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.144.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.145.0	Thank you, Vice President. A brief intervention, but I wanted to go down to the Faristol to be able to greet the representatives of the First Committee of December, who are the authentic drivers of this motion for a resolution, I mean, because, in the end, it is not a proposal that was the initiative of the parliamentary groups, but that was the initiative of the First Committee of December. And to take advantage also of the task they continue to do throughout the year with regard to AIDS and with regard to all aspects linked to this disease, which we have to say fortunately, at the length of the years it has been varying, from its future mortal to a chronic disease. Sometimes, we may be tempted – and often so – to try to make quantitative assessments, looking for how many people can affect this disease, how many people can be victims of this stigma, or who can be victims of this discrimination. But in this case, I don't want to use these data. I understand what needs to be done, there's someone who has done it, and it's normal that we do it, to have a size of what the problem is. But when we're talking about stigma and when we're talking about discrimination that people suffer from a certain disease, for these people, that they're the ones who suffer from it, the problem isn't just about discrimination that's absolute, the percentage is 100_percent. And, therefore, in these cases, they deserve absolutely all our attention and all our empathy. Indeed, this is a motion for a resolution that originates from another motion for a resolution that we were going to approve to the Parliament's Health Commission on March 2014. And it is a motion for a resolution that was approved by consent, that is to say, it did not arrive or vote, all parliamentary groups, collectively, we wanted to give support in that motion for a resolution, which was an agreement to deal with the HIV epidemic and the related stigma. And, certainly, one of the points of that agreement was precisely the development of the Social Pact against discrimination against people with HIV, which, during these years, obviously did not have the necessary impetus; precisely, for this reason we are here, talking about this new motion for a resolution. Because, indeed, as the deputy of Catalonia said in Comú Pueblo, she stayed in the coven, she did not advance and, here, we are all responsible, proportionally, but all. Obviously, the government has the greatest responsibility for this, which has not developed this agreement. But also, from Parliament's point of view, that one of our functions is the driving force behind government action, we have not had enough attention to this agreement to be able to demand that the government eventually have the agreement that was adopted in 2014. Therefore, from our point of view, things to object to, beyond this self-criticism and, therefore, to support this motion for a resolution, because, today, it can also be approved unanimously and that the next time we speak of stigma and discrimination is to do so from a point of view value of the actions that have been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.146.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Assumption Laïlla, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.147.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, today I especially want to greet, begin by greeting the people who accompany us here, among the public, some acquaintances of a long time ago and with whom we have shared many hours of debate and intense work on the subject that concerns us, also some festive day with motiu, therefore, precisely, from this fight against AIDS, against the stigma that, today, also, therefore, brings you here and, therefore, feel welcome in this that is your home. Today we are talking about AIDS, another time, a disease that, if the pandemic of the 20th century was properly named and that, in the past century, has worked since a basic scientific, medical, physiological, physical approach, right? In order to make it a chronic disease, to minimize its symptoms, to detect it early and to prevent it, now in the 21st century, without failing to strive, precisely, to eradicate it and to reduce all its effects, we also need to focus on everything that affects the people who suffer this disease, but that transcends this quality of physical salvation, such as, therefore, the struggle against stigma and discrimination in everyday life, in public services, has been explained, quite simply, in the defence of this disease, in the way that it is proposed to resolve, as well as the training and information that must therefore not only be held by those people who have the disease, but also by all persons who have the effect of the disease, in general, but also by the fact that, in the defence of this disease, the city can not, in the same way as the information, therefore, have not been given to the people who have the disease, but also to the people who have the effect of the disease, in general form, the information, if the information, And that, that's all I'm backing up this motion for a resolution. A motion for a resolution that arises from the consensus, from the work done by the entities, by the professional colleges, by the unions, which today you also accompany us here with us, and also by the Government and also by the other administrations. I, of the government, of different departments, precisely, with this will to transcend only the salutary factor. A consensus which, for us, is a tresor, which, sometimes, surely, has made us slow, and it is true, we started working on this 2014 and, surely, we have not been as hasty as we would have liked in the event that we would have liked to speak, today, therefore, of being able to eradicate the disease or, at least, have diminished its prevalence. And, therefore, we are talking here today about this concrete step, which incorporates, for me, a concept that is important, that is evaluation; the assessment of what has been done, what needs to be done and what it will do to eradicate this disease and to work also in the struggle against the stigma that it still suffers. And in fact, in these last few years, there have already been different important positions that have kept the fight against AIDS in the middle of the political debate, right? As it could be, in 2016, at the Conference of Onusida, so, precisely, it approves its general assembly of June 8th a political declaration in which it talks about working all this and, moreover, with an objective of eradicating the disease by 2030. Or 2017, in the framework of the International AIDS Society, to the scientific finding that was made in 2017, which approve the Declaration of Paris, which include, moreover, concrete petitions addressed not only to the medical sector, to the scientific sector, to the research, but also to the politicians, to the governments, to the citizenry in general, to the pharmaceutical industry, so that everyone is also responsible for the struggle against this disease. And, therefore, that purely centrist health speech is surpassed and this is ended, therefore, at the last conference in July of the 19th. I also want to hide a little bit at home and remember that here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, we were also pioneers in the fight against AIDS and that, in the year 89, it was created a study commission that lasted three legislatures and that, at that time, it approved conclusions that were ratified by the plenary, in which it spoke of prevention, protection of data from people with positive serology, etc., right? Surely, all those fears have already, by luck, been overcome, but I can't forget them so that I can work with all this. Therefore, we cannot stop and, obviously, we must work to eradicate the disease, we must work to avoid the contagious, especially in the younger population, and we must, however, be strong in the struggle against stigma in all areas and without cracks. Therefore, paraphrasing..., and finally, president, paraphrasing and adapting some words of Andy Warhol – when he said: "One day you wake up and you happen to be another person – one day we will wake up and this proposal will no longer be warm. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.148.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Congressman Lluís Guinó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.149.0	Thank you, Vice-President of Parliament. First of all, what I would like to do is to welcome Parliament here to the October U Committee and the associations that are part of it. [[remorse of the voice]] and give them the... – U de Desembro –, which form part and give them the thanks not only for the proposal they have made and that they carry, but for the work developed, the one they develop and the one they develop. In fact, I think that, as the Member of the Republican Left said, what we would surely want one day is that we should not bring this motion for a resolution back to Parliament, but certainly the reality is different. And I believe that the mobilization and awareness on the part of associations and the intention on the part of those to mobilize Parliament and political parties, and entities, and NGOs, and the Government, precisely from this point of view..., it seems to me that it will always be necessary and, therefore, there will always be a moment for this mobilization, among other things because, in fact, between the years eighty and ninety, when the virus practically meant death, when more than anything else there had been only the stigma of the virus itself, but it was a re-stigmatization, there was a double stigmatization and victimization, and indeed, for certain collections, all that had certainly changed and evolved, we have been alerted to such situations. And it is that at this point the risk is no longer just for certain collections, but it is a risk practically for everyone if, in many cases, they do not take the necessary measures and especially in the area of young people, especially at the sexual level. Therefore, there are differences in respect of the eighties and the North, but the need to be loving, to work together with associations and the corresponding committee, and, more importantly, to assume, that it is very important, resources to take action on these basic and functional characteristics. This pact, such a time, deserves an apology from the Parliament, as the Member of the European Parliament has said. In fact, recognizing sometimes that you don't do things right is the most or should be the most normal and the most upbuilding of politics. What we have to do, however, is, I insist more on approving these resolutions, giving them virtuality, and this can only be done through presuppostary resources, through intensive policies in this respect and thinking that it is not enough to take them away if it helps to remove stigma, but we have to make a policy of prevention, for one band, which is very important, but another of health promotion, which is already being done from the department, but in this area it is also phonenal, and from a clearly cross-cutting perspective. In fact, there are the two councillors, the social councillor..., and the health councillor, which means graphically that this clearly has to be a cross-cutting policy and that it does not only affect a department, but also affects several departments. We defend the motion for a resolution, we defend that we work intensively and that there are resources, and that, in some way, in a certain vivid experience..., and my final intervention would have pleased me that the person to whom I will refer is here to explain it well; it is certainly the one who explained to me and lived, or lived next to him, the experience of having this disease in the eighty-eighth; as in the eighty-years or years before going to live in a certain place clearly meant stigma, and as this person, with not only the help of the doctors, but also the help of the villains who accompanied him, of friends who did so clearly meant stigmatization, and as this person, with not only the help of the society, but also with the help of the people who were accompanying him, as long as he did in this village and, as well as in the understanding of the whole person who created the society at the very moment allowed him or her to do so much that he or her, and that he or her, at the very moment that he or her. And, therefore, from this point of view, it is also important to see that this evolution is not only gratifying for policies and is not only gratifying for society as a whole, but that it must be very gratifying precisely for all those entities that you have worked on, because there has certainly also been a part of the success. But, I insist, alert with young people, alert to continue insisting, from a point of political life, that this is an unresolved situation and that it creates risks for us. And we clearly need new solutions from the Health Department's policy, in this case, and from the Department of Social Affairs. One last thought, which is what they sent me and what I want to send here today. This is not just a stigma problem, it's a medical problem, it's a health problem, and it's a social problem. And we set up all the members of this society. And it requires them above all understanding, help and permanence in the intensity of these policies, which is surely what we have the whole right to demand from the government, and which is going forward definitively, to find ourselves here again and do something that we should also do at the level of public policy assessment, which is to assess whether they have come to an end and what results they have achieved. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.150.0	Thank you, Congressman. We have called for a vote, as there are no papers presented. [[Long break.]] Let us therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. The proposal for a resolution on accession to the Endecáleg and to the work plan for the implementation of the Social Pact against the stigma and discrimination of people with HIV has been approved by 127 votes in favour, against and against; that is, unanimously. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Thank you very much. The session is suspended until a quarter of four in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.151.0	MPs, MPs, let's resume the session. [[Decree-Law No 16/2019 of 26 November 2019 on urgent measures for climate change and the impetus of renewable energies]] [[203-00024/12]] The next item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 16/2019, of 26 November, of urgent measures for the climate emergence and the impulse of renewable energies. In accordance with Article 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Enterprise and Knowledge Council shall act in the first place to set out the reasons for which this Decree is promulgated. So, when he wants to, he'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.152.0	Okay. Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, first of all, I would not like to begin this intervention without welcoming the representatives of the associations of the renewables sector in Catalonia who are accompanying us today in this debate and vote on this decree. I thank you for your presence here and for your collaboration with all the work you've done until you get here. And I also want to thank all the cooperation and participation of the Department of Lands and Sustainability, encapsulated by Councillor Damia Calvet, in the drafting of this decree that we are debating today. Thank you very much. If this decree is validated, as I hope, you will be an indispensable part to materialize its deployment and application. Ladies and gentlemen, I must now express to you that I am dealing with the statement of the decree of urgent measures for climate change and the impulse of renewable energy with satisfaction, but above all with a great sense of responsibility; satisfaction because we are now carrying out to validate a decree which sets out the Government of the Generality's vision in energy matters; we are dealing with one of the objectives that we initially marked from the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, and, obviously, also complement the will and requirements of this chamber expressed in various motions after these months. Responsibility, too, because no one can ignore the climate change that confronts our planet; a situation that requires strong responses and firm commitments to a new energy model, a new model based on the promotion of renewable energies, which is democratic, consumer-centred and which fosters the decarbonization of our economy. To fulfil these commitments will only be possible if we increase the renewable generation and promote better energy efficiency. Today, we have 1,270 megawatts of wind power generation and 273 of photovoltaics installed, and, in order to complete the objectives of the Climate Change Law established by 2030, we should arrive at four thousand in one direction and six thousand in the other, respectively. To achieve this, therefore, much remains to be done; it will be necessary to take over the Catalan city and businesses with the aim of promoting a new energy economy based on net generation, storage, innovation and export, and also without oblivion that we are also pursuing the creation of a stable and quality occupation for the sector. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to a point where it is no longer optional to take action; we must take action quickly. It is in this sense that the Government has designed its strategy to face this challenge, through three axes: the first is the repeal of Decree 147/2009; the second, the Energy Transition Act; and the third, the creation of the Catalan Energy Agency. We are debating the first of these actions, the validation of the law decree for climate change and the impulse of renewables. This decree repeals the old Decree 147/2009, which was an obstacle to the deployment of renewables to the country, but it also rewrites those articles that were positive, such as maintaining a single window. It does, meaning damage to the necessary environmental protection, landscape and urban planning of the territory, and also facilitating an energy model of distributed generation where the self-consumer there can play a very important role. And why I became clear and no one is confused: we remove the barriers to generation with renewable energies, also taking into account what is our competence, our limit – are those parks less than fifty megawatts. We did, too, ensuring that it did not have an environmental, landscape, or urban impact. And we also have the citizens and the most affordable companies for their own renewable energy generators. And all of this is done through an emergency mechanism, like a decree enacted in the Climate Emergencies Declaration that we adopted on May 14, 2019. Neither the planet nor our country can wait any longer. We are all critical of past actions, yes, but we focus our efforts on present, immediate actions; we need to move from words to facts, from well-intentioned speeches to real and effective actions. The planet suffers from the effects of human action and we need to be aware that we need to transform the way we produce and consume energy to ensure the viability of this world, preserve biodiversity and protect people's salvation. The combination of the energy cycle – production, transformation, transport, distribution and consumption – accounts for 72_percent of the gases with winter effects, and 87_percent of carbon dioxide emissions from Catalonia are also energy-based. Therefore, talking about climate emergence is talking about energy emergence. And I need to listen carefully to the scientific community, because it's been a long time since we've been notified of the planet's environmental extremes. And I need to listen, too, with attention, young people, young generations who are warning us. They won't forgive us if we don't face this problem, because they and they are present, yes, but above all they want to have a future. Today we are responsible for implementing actions that will be decisive in addressing the climate crisis and opening this future door to nine generations. What we have before us is a challenge that runs away from partyism and demands a common and persistent front; we all have our share of responsibility. The coordinated action of the public administrations, with the Generality in the lead, but also the involvement of the main territorial actors and civil society, must enable us to complete an electrical system based on renewable energies, following what the Climate Change Law of 2017 establishes; a law, certainly, approved by a very large majority in this chamber, as I say, August 2017, as I hope, would like to see this decree finally validated. It was pointed out earlier that renewable energies must be open to the territory in a respectful manner with the surrounding environment and the landscape of the country. It is the renewable energies that must be adapted to the territory, and not the territory to the renewable ones. It must be made very clear that this decree has also been drafted with this philosophy. And we also want to take over the consumer, put it at the center of any action, so that it becomes an active subject in the energy transition that we face; private and businesses must be able to generate energy to consume it, store it and sell it 'in the excess it can have. The decree we are debating today has the objective of clearly promoting the relationship of energy generation equipment with renewables, and we want to simplify the processing of these installations. I would like to highlight the importance of creating legal certainty to ensure its viability. We want Catalonia to regain leadership in renewable generation. To do this, this decree also modifies the Law of Urbanism, facilitating the implementation of solar energy-use installations on construction covers and in the area of unoccupied urban plots, as in non-urban areas. All folded, it is thought with the intention of putting the consumer at the center of the new energy model. And I want to insist on this, because this decree incorporates measures that promote self-consumption. We want to continue to advance in renewables, in the promotion of renewable energies. And so we do, too, with different actions of the department, such as this line that we have promoted to promote energy efficiency and efficiency in the industry with more than 48_million euros. These actions are shown by this clear commitment to climate, but also by the promotion of competitiveness among Catalan companies. Last week we also announced the creation of twenty-three new refueling stations. So, we're closing this first pulse plate to electric mobility with one hundred and thirty fast charging stations and more than 1,600 vehicles running through our lanes. He did not want to finish this intervention without making a point of the actions that we will have to materialize quickly: the processing of the Energy Transition Law and the creation of the Catalan Energy Agency. We are discussing a first package of urgent measures, because renewable energies cannot wait any longer. The location, those aspects that still require an answer, that they be incorporated into the Energy Transition Law, that we submit to public exposure before the end of this year, in order to further advance towards this new energy model. At the same time, the creation of the Catalan Energy Agency will allow us to respond to new energy challenges, because we cannot face an urgent energy transition with organizational structures of the 1990s. Today, ladies and gentlemen, they have a great opportunity to give you an answer. They have discussed it in resolutions and motions, but the climate crisis is not solved with only positions in Parliament, we are making laws. The government has begun to do the work by approving Decree Law 16/2019 of 26 November. Today they correspond to your giving continuity to the green energies, filling the lights of the voting panel with this color. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.153.0	Thank you, Counselor. All the same, the parliamentary groups will intervene to determine their position. And in the first place has the word, for a time of five minutes, the deputy Alfonso Sánchez, in representation of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.154.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselor... First of all, I would like to condemn the fascist attack that has been experienced for a little time at the Autonomous University of Barcelona and denounce the total lack of protection on the part of its directors. We must continue to fight to end this totalitarian scourge and we will continue to defend democracy and freedom. [[Greetings.]] Well, then, let's go with the decree. For the past ten years, energy from renewable sources has been virtually paralyzed, and it is that..., especially solar and wind, which has made us move from being at the head of clean energy generation to the last posts on the tail. As a result, the last wind farm installed in Catalonia was in January 2013, six years ago, and here we have a graph [[the timer the show]] which shows us what started with a strong trend towards the 2020 target, with 20_percent of renewable energy, but in the end we found ourselves in a simple 8.5_per_percent, far removed from its Europe target. At the end of Spain, also, with this result of Catalonia, we get a 17,5_per_cent who has failed to meet this objective, since Catalonia is one of the autonomous communities with the most electricity production and, therefore, where its weight would have been most noticed at national level if it had opted for renewables. Now, Catalonia has the opportunity to be part of the solution for this compliance in Europe. This decree is intended to facilitate, with all the administrative processes and processes, the installation of renewable and optical sources of energy, and so we think that without the rest of the points we believe that we have serious doubts. And, of course, more specifically wind and photovoltaics. The 20_per_cent renewables target for 2020 will no longer be met, but it also marked 50_per_cent by 2030 and 100_per_cent by 2050, so we still have a lot of work to do, so this decree also regulates the areas to prepare the way for those goals. We really see a step forward in removing the barriers that renewables have had in Catalonia, a step that has been necessary for a long time and that has demonstrated once again how the Government's priorities have been directed to issues that have not benefited citizens at all, a necessary step forward. But they keep having these processist tics in each of the initiatives that present us. On the one hand, the amendment of the Urban Planning Act, which changes waste treatment facilities to waste management facilities, is a subtle but very important change. No legal certainty. You are writing those points, those articles annulled by the Constitutional Court in its Judgment 87/2019, of June 20. Some, although it is true that they take up the recommendations of this judgment, paying attention and following what the Court says... The rest of the points, because we believe that..., generate serious doubts. And, of course, without dialogue, without dialogue with the Government of Spain on the collaboration that must be made between the State and the autonomous communities in these matters. And we already know that this is the most important reform in the last decade in terms of the environment and climate change, and so..., that we think that without the rest of the groups we can't just make a coma change. And we understand that it is a decree that delves too deeply into legal aspects and modifications so that the opposition is 100_per_cent agree. We don't think a decree is enough for a consensus. And, moreover, Ciutadans, as you well know, we are committed to an energy transition towards renewables, and also to their exploitation through electric vehicles, eliminating any carbon footprint. But, look, if they really wanted to talk about climate emergency and future, they would push the resolutions of these groups. We have presented a multitude of parliamentary initiatives in this regard during these years, which, being approved, the Government has left in the drawer of oblivion. But no, the only thing the government has done well has been to fry people's taxes. Climate change has been used as a great excuse to tax the possession of a vehicle. Yes, possession, because, use it or not use it, will have to pay, contaminate or not contaminate. But it is that also now many citizens will not be able to enter the low-emission zone in Barcelona, because there is a lot of pollution, and then you invite them to use public transport [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I'm finishing, President – but there they wait again with the T-Casual, with the help of Colau, as it couldn't be otherwise. And it is that in the end always go to the same: the currants, those who have to go to work in their own vehicle. And then we could think: "Well, I'm sure the government has thought about everything and has electric buses. Nor: it has seven electric vehicles, of the 1,166...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.155.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.156.0	...the rest, gas or diesel. So they're not taking it seriously. Some of us do take it seriously, so we're not going to oppose...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.157.0	Congressman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.158.0	... to this decree or to other groups that present this initiative as a bill. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.159.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.160.0	President, Counsellor, Councillors, Members, Members, Members of Parliament, we will support the validation of this decree, we will facilitate its processing, and we will not ask that it is forwarded as a bill, because some of the doubts that we had, that they had nothing to do with renewable energies, have been escaped or, if not, limited. And, therefore, we would facilitate their approval, because it is a way to make businesses more agile and to remove obstacles we have in Catalonia for the deployment of renewable energies. And, moreover, because in the last six, eight months, this Parliament, the plenary of the Parliament, has approved two motions – two – to the institutions of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which were just calling for the repeal of this decree. Therefore, from this point of view, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units consider it positive. But let us not deceive ourselves: the approval alone of this decree will not remove some of the obstacles that we still have in Catalonia to achieve an important, massive deployment of renewable energies. Other things will need to be done; other things that are: social debate too, report, convince the city council of the need to implement renewable energies. The decree, however, I said, does not mean either a definite impulse, from our point of view, to the implementation of renewables, because we believe that the government is compromising little with the approval of this decree, does not coordinate the policies that will be necessary or is put back into place. She gave me the counselor, and I'm taking her word for it, huh? - We didn't talk this morning, either. Two more fish are needed: making a mutation from the current Icaen to an energy agency in Catalonia, also with the will to intervene in the sector and to invest in the sector, from our point of view, and a law of energy transition. I remind the councillors that the Generality is all, not only the Government, all the parliamentary groups in this house; that it should listen to the business sector, yes, yes, it is doubtful, but also the social sectors and parliamentary groups, even though they are in opposition, because they are part of what we know as the Generality. This morning, to the question I asked the councillor, I said: that either we are able to generate great consensus in the country or it will be difficult to implement according to policy. We will have to demand a more important role also for the assemblies and the local and territorial world. We will facilitate the approval because we believe that we cannot stand back in the bidding of projects in a future sub-up to renewables that can be produced at the conjunction of the State. At the end, more than two hundred projects, in Catalonia, it seems to me that only one was awarded, and, therefore, we must make an effort. I'm sure this isn't a unanimous position, huh? , but yes majority, I believe, in the country's conjunct. Nuclear energy is not an alternative to the future, but today it still has an important weight in the generation of electricity in Spain and above all in Catalonia. Is it possible to replace her? We think so. Now, developing renewable energies as much as possible. Not only do they develop renewable energies: they make another type of policies, such as estalvi policies, energy efficiency policies, reducing emissions in the areas of consumption, industry, housing, mobility, etc. And that's why this energy transition law is needed. And it's necessary, besides, for something else that can't take too long from our point of view: it's not like we're generating a speculative bubble, huh? , by failing to coordinate the policies of the country and the State. In a cylinder, you'll spray them a lot from our point of view: it's not like we're generating a special cylinder with the ones in the State. I hope that, when there is a definite government at the joint meeting of the Spanish State, the Ministry for the Ecological Transition also approaches, together with the governments of the autonomous communities and with the joint parliamentary groups, a reform of the system of awarding renewables to avoid in the joint meeting of the State, also in Catalonia, a new speculative cylinder around renewable energies. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.161.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Congressman Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.162.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselress, advisors, deputies and deputies, there is no plan to benefit if it does not guarantee a just and democratic transition, at the height of the energetic challenges that we have going forward with the country. And today, according to the Idescat, 400,000 Catalans and Catalans live in a situation of poor energy, families that do not arrive at the end of the month and cannot pay the cost of lighting, water or gas. And this is the result of a continuous decade of policies that have eroded the ability of families to fully guarantee their rights and that translates into a healthy boost in the bill of the light, water and gas by oligopolistic markets that possess ahead of the benefits of businesses to the rights of citizens; two years lost in renewable energies, which we are now talking about, and two years of policies of wage devaluation and retailing in public services, which has entailed nothing more than the lack of protection presented and the future of a phonological element for welfare, which is secure access to energy. We must abandon these austerity policies, and that means making the necessary legislative changes to ensure that we can develop a just and sustainable energy sector. In Catalonia we have collected European renewable energy targets, both in the Climate Change Act and in the Energy and Climate Plan of 2020, in which Catalonia is committed to 20_percent of its energy coming from renewable sources in two weeks' time, the year 2020. And the failure of the different governments to approve the energy plans against climate change until today has led us, at the current rate, to reach the 2020 target, 2089, for wind energy and 2098, for photovoltaic energy. That is to say, that we will arrive at the current rate of installation of wind and photovoltaic energy, in the next eighty years, to complete the 2020 targets. And, therefore, it is an unsustainable situation and it was a situation that required repealing the current decree and working on an energy transition law in this country. This decree, in our opinion, brings two positive things: it rules in a pioneering way the electric self-consumption, we believe that it is good news that any citizen of Catalonia can install solar plates to his roof or to the roof of his company with little more than a communication to the assembly and that, therefore, a time given and with the entry register, can start the installation of renewable energy at his house, and it breaks down, obviously, with criteria that were excessively restricted because it was viable in Catalonia to install a wind energy park or a photovoltaic energy park and that it is what it has entailed that, during these years, practically, no renewable energy has been installed in Catalonia. Now, this decree also carries disadvantages or risks that I believe if we are not curious and, above all, if we are not quick at the time of bringing an energy transition law into this Parliament, they will bring problems within the territory of Catalonia, and it is that this deregulation that allows us to break with criteria that make wind and photovoltaic parks in Catalonia impossible is a deregulation that involves and will involve problems, will generate conflicts within the territory, as macro-projects begin to come out to install large wind or solar parks from Catalonia or in territories that the citizenry considers to be protected by its environmental or landscape value. I think these conflicts are coming up. And it can also behave, as the Terrades company said, a dynamic of candy, that is not new and that we are living it within the State; probably, the only community where we did not live was in Catalonia, because renewable energies were not being installed. And, therefore, we believe that, in the band of approving this decree, which, let us say, opens the door that can be re-installed renewable energies in Catalonia, such as urgently speeding up the processing of an energy transition law that puts four or five elements on the table clearly. First. It is necessary to design a tax because part of the entrances that generate these wind farms are going back to the territory and do not deepen the rural abandonment that many areas of Catalonia suffer. It is necessary to open them, as many countries do, to the participation of the citizen and that part of the action of the different photovoltaic and wind parks are owned by the citizenry or are accessed by public institutions. It also regulates territorial equity. There can't be any territories. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] from Catalonia – and with this I am finished – that today they no longer have productive alternatives to their territories and that they end up with the warehouse where we install the great energy projects of Catalonia. And obviously, we also regulate how we preserve the natural heritage of the installation of renewable energy parks. We will give support to the decree, we will not ask that it is passed as the bill. We think it's good news and so we'll approve it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.163.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.164.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.165.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed is the turn of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.166.0	Well, good afternoon. If there are some of the questions that have been raised today that we find interesting, in general terms, we do not see this decree clearly. We are debating a complex decree and, from our point of view, with some shortcomings and some significant risks in the text, first, because there has been a decree made totally out of the landscape to the territories that could be affected, to the ecological entities and in defense of the territory. We think it's a decree that's worked out a lot of doors. And, moreover, with a legislative mechanism that leaves little room for parliamentary groups, which obliges us to say yes, 'no abstention and no deepening in a rich debate, in which we would like to be able to participate. We do understand that, with the announcement that the Energy Transition Law will be processed before the end of the year, we can make this participation, but we do not understand why a minimum of 'decree' is being pushed, which, from our point of view, despite having an attractive title, is governed by massive economic criteria. One of the fundamental questions that concerns us is the renewable energy production map that will allow this decree, especially the wind map. You claim to want to continue to advance in the mitigation of climate change and in the energy transition, but we, once read the text, see that there are some aspects that make it go in the direction of competition, for the bet for a greater liberalisation of the renewables sector, which, in fact, gives white paper to the big corporations and puts at risk the conservation of the natural spaces of the Catalan territory. She said: "It is not the territory that is to be adapted to the decree. So, precisely, this is a key issue that will determine our vote. Why? Because the general and specific criteria for regulating the authorisation of installations are overly generic and open the door to affect any protected natural space or not. We are also concerned that the elimination of the special plan represents exempting wind farms and solar photovoltaic plants from environmental assessment, not to mention the municipal limitation to urban logic and as remains in the logic of the POUM, as remains the municipal sovereignty much affected. We believe that, obviously, there is an urgent need to reduce CO2 emissions, there is a need to have an energy transition plan at the height of the gravity of climate change that we are living in, but that we should not take these backs at the cost of unravelling our mountains and our natural landscapes. In Catalonia, we have a multitude of spaces around other infrastructures, hundreds of polygons where we can install all these energy plants and, therefore, perhaps, the fact that the price is more cheap, the possibility – and finally, president – of being able to speculate with the soil, makes it possible for us to present a decree that we consider to be the cause of many of the environmental conflicts that we will experience in the future in the territory. We, from this perspective, will remind them and, therefore, we will do a no, that we believe that it is important before some questions that we do not believe are consensual in the country and, therefore, despite the fact that we know that there is a majority that does not support it, we ask that this decree be passed as a bill of law and that, therefore, we promote a rich debate with the contributions of social, ecological and economic agents, as we thought should have been driven.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.167.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of... Yeah. Lady Sirvent. Why ask me the word? Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.168.0	Yeah. For a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.169.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.170.0	Miri, at the previous Board of Spokesmen, we agreed that the parliamentary subgroups would have five minutes for our intervention. In fact, I myself, as the representative of the subgroup, requested that it be in the Minutes because this did not happen in plenary, that we were in front of the Faristol with a limited speaking time and, finally, we had this situation, it was given to the plenary, and we had to intervene for a period of two and a half minutes and not five minutes. I'll be able to corroborate the other spokespersons who were present at the Portaveus Board.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.171.0	He doesn't know he agreed to five minutes. They usually correspond two minutes and a half. In other questions, they did agree five minutes. For example, today, the motion for a resolution was agreed five minutes... [[Widow's remorse.]] I am speaking, Members, I am speaking... It was agreed that, in the case of motions for resolutions, five minutes because all groups and sub-groups agreed to the Board of Spokespersons to limit to five minutes; here, there was no limit to the time of one parliamentary group or of one parliamentary sub-group and they correspond to what it is about by Regulation, namely, five groups and, two and a half, sub-groups. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.172.0	As the Companion of the CUP Group commented, it was agreed that, in the two-minute accounts we have for the Rules, we would do five groups, but that it would not touch the limitation for groups for this session. There's been talk of the coming. And it is true that, since the Socialist Group, it has been thought that this should be spoken for the proper ones from the beginning, but for this, in concrete terms, it has been agreed that the groups, even if we have one, limit ourselves to five and that the subgroups are kept in the five. I think you should review the Minutes, because you did agree to this at the Spokesman's Meeting.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.173.0	The Minutes will have to be reviewed, but, I insist, I do not know at this time. In any case, in the future, we must take account, as you said, of other interventions. Now, I'll get back to Mr. Santi Rodriguez. [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Say'm, Miss Sirvent. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.174.0	Yeah. First of all, because it is clear from the record that the Member of Parliament, Nattalia Sánchez, made an express request to the President, before the intervention began, with the aim of respecting the time allotted to all parliamentary groups to the previous Board of Spokespersons. And, secondly, to ask the President to rectify, because we, on a regular basis, receive five minutes, the rest of the parliamentary groups, it is up to them to intervene for a period of two minutes and, therefore, to us, on a regular basis, it is up to us to intervene for a period of five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.175.0	Five minutes, the Joint Group; half are two and a half minutes for the parliamentary subgroup, because what they get is half of the parliamentary groups. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They've reduced all the time. It was agreed to reduce all the time, deputies. Anyway, Mr. Rodriguez, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.176.0	Yeah. But, Mr President, I would ask you to put up the clock because you wanted to intervene on a point of order, which is what you were trying to do from the start and did not allow me. And the point of order is that, effectively, and without being used as a precedent, the CUP spokesman is absolutely right. [[Give me the applause.]] Because, in addition, it's fixed if it's easy for parliamentary subgroups to have five minutes of intervention, for the simple fact that the time reduction assigned to the group and subgroups is a matter of unanimity. And I, unfortunately, have had to say many times to spokespersons' meetings that, if parliamentary sub-groups were very limited in our interventions, it was as simple as denying ourselves the time reduction assigned to parliamentary groups and sub-groups and, in this way, we kept the five minutes. And, at the last Board of Spokesmen, the spokesman of the Socialist Group complained, precisely, that the parliamentary sub-groups held the same time as the parliamentary groups. Mr. President, you don't understand. I will not ask you now to have a favor in relation to what you have had in the CUP Group, but in any case, if this is to be your way of taking the agreements of the Board of Spokesmen, take note of it and, from this moment on, Mr Forné, we ourselves... Mr Forné, because it is what you always ask us to reduce time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.177.0	Congressman, I'm asking you to go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.178.0	We will not accept any longer that the time we have for parliamentary groups and sub-groups is reduced.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.179.0	All right. You have the word, now, to make your intervention. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.180.0	All right. So, running, I'll try to say what I can say. This decree has various parts, concretely, I separate them into four parts, which do not necessarily correspond with the four chapters. There is a first part that is a restyling of the Climate Change Law, that will prove that it is a reform more of that law, yes, to adapt it, in some cases, to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, in other cases, to make other modifications. But I think that what is evident about the so-called reform of the Climate Change Law – I remember that we are also dealing with another law amending the Climate Change Law – is that at the time when that law was approved, that law was green and green, not because it was a law to fight against the climate change, but because it was not mature enough to approve it and, therefore, at that time our group abstained. With regard to renewable energies, with which I have time to explain, there are two points, in the field of activities, which we see positively; another in the field of urbanism, which we see positively, but we believe that they are insufficient, because they do not have all the possibilities. In the area of urban planning, there are other modifications and, later, what is important is that it is the repeal of Decree 147/2009, which is the implementation map or, rather, rather than the implementation map, the 2009 wind park ban map and which has been impossible and has made it impossible for us to stay at the top of the deployment of wind farms, which we have already been doing, because we are from communities that permits to install renewable energy parks have a longer length of time in relation to other communities, but to leave them, practically, permanently up to date. However, we welcome the derogation from this decree, which prevented the development of renewable energies, and now it will be easier to draw wind farms or solar photovoltaic energy parks, but we do see that they maintain elements of discretion and that they are subject to the granting of such authorizations to a purely governmental character that will be the one that will end up defining criteria, that will be the one that will end up defining the possibilities. And, therefore, we believe that it has not gone as far as it could have gone, that it has not taken all the measures that are necessary and sufficient to enable it to develop, with all its power, the possibilities of solar photovoltaic energy and wind energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.181.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Civict has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.182.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, counselor – that they are the AMPA of the creature – but also advisors of the Government, who in this case are great consumers of energy for their installations, I think it is important that they are here today. And welcome is this new decree after you have practically lost a decade as a country, as a company and as a production sector, because now you have finally opened the door, but above all it is about getting this door that has stopped us. I mean, do you remember the Corcuera law, the one with the kick on the door? So maybe we need the Corcuera law to promote renewable energies once and for all, because now Catalonia is literally a renewable desert. We don't even get a 10_percent renewable energy in this country, when 2050 is to be 100_per_cent. And of course, we find that they should not only be renewable, but there is also the risk that we will make a Lampedusian transition, in which we will actually switch from contaminating energies to renewable energies, but all in a few hands, which, basically, in this case, are IBEX 35 plus the Enterprise Action. We also find ourselves with a situation, which fortunately begins to change, which was the fact that – and thanks to the decree this began to change – some assemblies did not only require you to pay the tax on works, but they even called for engineering projects; or, then, people were laying down a plaque, not putting themselves at home, and that was one of the things that we had to take into account. Because at every age his energy, and putting up a plate has to be as easy as posing a television antenna. But it is also very important that local communities, the citizenry and, above all, the territory participate, that I stop being a spectator and become the protagonist of this transition. But, alert – I have spoken before about the issue of Lampedusian transition – we have the risk of speculation. Electric Network, in the Spanish State, has already fallen more than 46,000 megawatts that were pending authorization, because there is precisely the risk of speculation. Because, of course, here, with this transition, the inversion of big companies sees a great future, but, unfortunately, for their butxaques and not for the country and the planet. We need to change the paradigm to a distributed, participatory and renewable model. Because we have to move from a model in which the distribution becomes the bulk of all folded, of an 80_per_cent, minus, unlike now, which is less than 20_per_cent; or go on, more distributed and less transported. A zero-kilometer energy model, which basically means energy sovereignty too; that people participate, from renewable to democratic cents; that people, as the Councillor has already said, are at the front, in this case, of businesses, and that is what the National Pact for Energy Transition says. That the Catalan Institute of Finance, too, in this case, acts as a public bank, a green bank, in favor of this transition for the citizen, but also for energy cooperatives, which also do not forget that they exist, in the band of companies, in order to be able to do this. That we recover the hydro-electric concessions; now that they are finished or that the majority arrive to seventy or eighty or one hundred years of its concession, that we are going to recover it. That we disinvest in fossil fuels for the public, which is still viable, unfortunately, here, and this in countries like Norway and Ireland, in the last two years, have already begun to announce that they are withdrawing from these investments. That we promote the proximity of generation and consumption, because, if not, no one wants consumption, no one wants the wind farms on the side of the house but not the lines of very high tension. So, if we don't want MATs, what we have to do is put our plates at home. Also guarantee for the law – for the law, this is very important – that generating energy is a basic human right, and this is also one of the bases for fighting the poor energy. The concept of 'energy of the industrial concept' is changed; energy is a concept of citizenship, it is a universal basic right. That too – and that's the positive part – when there was the whole issue of the economic crisis, one of the few positive things that was timed was the fact that urban bogery stopped. There's a lot of urban space that's now urbanized, but surely, and by luck, it'll never build. So this space that's anthropized, let's use it. So let's start planting mixed uses of the soil that until now have been typified as urbanizable, so that it is also precisely to put this energy. Logically, continuing with the theme of small producers. Clean energy for all Europeans, which is the decree that sees us from Europe; let's take advantage of it, let's get rid of it, let's push it to the maximum. The logically territorial balances. When I'm in the laundry, then, tell my house about my eighty windmills. As you know, someone has already said, this is generating the fact that many territories feel deprived. We need the energy produced on the side of the big consumers, and that means the metropolitan area, I mean also Catalonia Vella, which starts to have a decisive role, because logically if we continue in this line, if the territory brings, it will also have to rebre, and I believe that it is just to guarantee the territorial balance and that there is no depopulation, that the territory rebre. We work for this – we work for this; we work to make this climate change law, pending, with the energy transition law, with the zero residue law, with the sustainable agricultural development law. We have a climate justice, which is also social justice, and forward with energy sovereignty, which we are very late. Because let's remember...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.183.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.184.0	...if we want to be an independent country, we must also have energy sovereignty. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.185.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Narcis Clara.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.186.0	Thank you, President. Members of the Government and Parliament, climate energy and global warming, produced from gas emissions with winter effects, are sufficient to design an energy system based on renewable energy sources, but there are other considerations, because of the potential for opportunities and benefits in other areas, such as politics, for health and economics. Of the various political challenges facing the European Union, the effectiveness of reducing emissions of greenhouse gases will be one of the factors that will determine the greater or lesser confidence of citizens in democracy and European institutions, which have been questioned from various backward and populist sectors. It is a political reason for not delaying the transformation of our industry and our energy system into everything that is needed. Europe is most likely the main focus of global attention on the design and application of environmental policies. There is no doubt about the relationship of salvation with the quality of the area, and this with the generation of energy and, therefore, the positive effects of the implementation of renewable energies. To put just one complementary example, in a recent scientific article published in Environmental Research Letters, researchers from MIT and the University of Washington have established, by means of models of atmospheric and economic contamination, to assess the impact of air quality and human health..., Dec, they have established that the benefits of salvation increase more than the economic costs, produced by the implementation of renewable energies. Another opportunity is the possibility that the environmental challenges will lead to an increase in investment in Europe, which involves business innovation and job creation, especially of highly qualified people. The construction of net energy networks will give a competitive advantage to whomever it is available. If we increase the electrification of transport systems, it will increase the demand for electricity. Therefore, the legal and administrative mechanisms and the political framework needed to expand, develop and implement new renewable energy projects that are the basis of the new economy of the 21st century must be designed. The Government of Catalonia, by its responsibility to the country's citizens, by its consistency with the declaration of climate emergence, in order to generate confidence in the business sectors and to meet the demand of a large part of the social agents and the energy sectors, but also by compromise and credibility with the European agenda, bases its strategy on three main areas, as Councillor Chacón has explained exhaustively and so I will be relieved. I will simply mention the energy transition law, the creation of the Catalan Energy Agency and the repeal of Decree 147/2009. Decree 147, combined with state legislation, has been bad. During the last seven years, only one wind turbine has been built and set up in Catalonia, although this has been a pioneer in the installation of cooperative wind farms, a technology with successful precedents in northern Europe and the United States and which we hope will be developed in our home. The envisaged commitments require a very significant and annual increase until 2030, both in wind and photovoltaic energy. As I said, I'll clear the other side of the decree because it's already been thoroughly debated. In short, this decree is an exhibition of the government's commitment and ability to respond among its competitors to climate change. Finally, we wish to express our satisfaction that we have been able to resolve the doubts which had arisen on various aspects of the decree, in particular those which refer to installations intended for waste management. The dialogue with groups of Socialists and Units for Progress and Catalonia in Comú We may have been a very useful tool at the time of contrasting and reducing the uncertainties that had arisen. Mr Terrades spoke of 'dubs'; therefore, by reducing the uncertainties, we can associate 'uncertainties with doubts and the'supposiveness' that you started with infinite doubts and, therefore, narrowing them down, in this case, is to reduce the uncertainty. We believe that the agreement not to deal with it will significantly increase business confidence. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.187.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. They know that, according to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and that the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. We will vote first on the validation of the decree and then, as the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent has asked that it is passed as the bill, we will vote after this second possibility. [[Pause.]] Let's proceed to the vote, therefore, on the validation of Decree Law 16/2019. The vote begins. The law decree has been validated by 124 votes in favour, 4 against and 4 abstentions. And, as we say, according to Article 158.4 and once the decree has been ratified, and as a minimum a parliamentary subgroup has asked, we will vote now if it is dealt with as the bill. Let's get to the vote. It is understood that the affirmative votes are in favour of processing as the bill and the negative votes are against. Let's get to the vote. The proposal to deal with the draft law of Decree Law 16/2019 of 26 November 2019 on urgent measures for climate change and the impetus for renewable energy has been voted negatively by 39 votes in favour, 81 against and 12 abstentions. Therefore, the decree is valid, which will not be processed as the bill. Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day. It's the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, sir, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.188.0	Yes, President, it's for a point of order. Simply because we want to clarify what our speaking time will be at all points remaining in this House, above all because, to us, as a rule, we belong to these five minutes, and if there is no unanimous agreement on the Board of Spokespersons, no one can reduce our speaking time. Therefore, if this is not the case, if we do not have the time set, we will be obliged to request the convening of a spokesman's meeting and the suspension of the plenary, bearing in mind that we already know that we must support other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.189.0	As I mentioned before... yes, say'm, Mr. Rodriguez. I suppose on the same line?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.190.0	Yeah, exactly on the same line. Because we have girls foresight, without prejudice to the time we plan to run out, but we have girls foresight and, therefore, it is important to know how long we will have to defend our positions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.191.0	All right. So, now the comment we say..., the one that they were trying to express before, that, with regard to the motions for resolutions, there are agreements of five minutes for parliamentary groups and parliamentary subgroups, one time equal to the motions for resolutions, which are five minutes, and in the rest of the speeches are the usual times. [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Say'm, Miss Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.192.0	Yes, Mr. President. There is no sense that parliamentary groups have given five minutes for resolution proposals, three pages, and two and a half minutes for a decree of more than two-hundred pages, in which the positioning was much more complex. Actually, I don't think I'm justified, it's that the Board of Spokespersons' agreements are who they are, and the Board of Spokespersons is registered. And, besides, we specifically asked that it be in the record that we had this time. This has been a harm because we can develop our representation in this Parliament properly, because we are talking about a decree containing more than two-hundred pages and with a very extensive articulation. And, therefore, we would ask you, once again, what you corrected, and that you managed to enforce the agreements that we made to the Board of Spokesmen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.193.0	That's what we've done, sir. And, in any case, as I have done now, hastily, but we will have time to do so, we will actually review the Minutes of the Board of Spokesmen which speaks of the motions for resolutions, as they are now moving forward. [[Widow's remorse.]] Sir, we're not going to continue the debate. In any case, like you, and I myself, we will review the Minutes of the Board of Spokespersons. In any case, I insist that before: it is the usual time, taken from the motions for resolutions, in which there is an intervention for all parliamentary groups and sub-groups, of five minutes. Now we continue with the fourth point of the order of the day, which is the debate of totality on the Law Proposition for the multilingual teaching of Catalonia. Mrs. Roldán, if it's about this question, we'll tank the debate here. In any case, we'll talk to the Spokesman's Board and review the record. To present the... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mrs. Sirvent, we're tanking the debate here. I didn't give the word to Mrs. Roldán... [[Widow's remorse.]] Sir, you do not have the word, we have already spoken, we have already clarified, now we will not get out of here, in any case, we will continue the debate and review the agreements to the Board of Spokesman, and we will clarify these questions in the future. [[Widow's remorse.]] Listen to me, if you ask for words of order, I will give them, but I warn you that what we will not do is reproduce the debates we have on the Board of Spokesmen respect this in the House. In any case, I insist, we will review the agreement and the minutes of the Board of Spokesmen, now we continue... Is that for another reason, Mrs. Roldán? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Listen to me, we haven't talked... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We've already spoken to the Spokesman's Board, all the groups have spoken, I ask them to continue with the debate, and we will, of course, deal with it at the Spokesman's Board. [[Widow's remorse.]] Sir, you've intervened a few times, we haven't spoken. There's his position, and my position. Don't go on. The fourth point of the order of the day is the debate to the totality on the law proposal for the multilingual teaching of Catalonia. To defend him, he has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Ciutadans, which is the proposing group, the deputy lady... No, he forgives: the intervention of the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Deputy, we've already spoken, we've already advanced, we won't continue with this debate. Why ask me the word, Mrs. Sirvent?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.194.0	If I don't own it... oh! All right, now... To request a suspension of the plenary and a summons of the Board of Portaveus, because you do not respect the agreements that we have before you in the case of the Board of Portaveus.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.195.0	Sir, we'll do a Spokesman's Meeting when I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.196.0	No, no... I'll have it now. According to the Rules, I have the prerogative to request a suspension of the plenary and a Board of Spokesmen, whenever I support more than two parliamentary groups. And, therefore, it is asked from other parliamentary groups, that I suppose they will also want to place on the request of the Spokesman's Meeting that we have just called for. And, therefore, you would be obliged to give the word to the other parliamentary groups because you can position yourself on the request of the Spokesman's Board that we have just made in the case of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.197.0	All right, Sirvent, it's clear. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.198.0	Yes, Mr President, Rule 35.2 of the Rules of Procedure, we ask for the call of the Board of Spokesmen to clarify the speaking times of the groups and sub-groups in the subsequent agenda items, and therefore, as the following agenda items affect the agenda items, we understand that the plenary should be suspended and that this Board of Spokesmen should be held. [[Widow's remorse.]] [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.199.0	Say'm, Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.200.0	Thank you, President. For, in the same vein, to support this request for a Board of Spokesmen, and I think it is worth it that once there seems to be consensus among all forces, we take advantage of it. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.201.0	Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.202.0	Thank you, President. With no intention of reproducing the proceedings of the Board of Spokesmen, however, since my group was not particularly in line with the decision it had taken, I think I can at least help to clarify that we understand that it was agreed that on the points of the day when the reduction in the time of intervention of the groups had been granted, the Joint Group maintained its speaking time, and therefore the subgroups had these five minutes. Even though we weren't particularly compliant with it. But in any case, I think that was the board's agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.203.0	[[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Say'm, ma'am... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.204.0	Yes, totally in agreement with what Congressman Pedret said. I think that if the majority, not to say all the spokespersons of the different groups, agree that this was so, if this is maintained for the rest of the plenary we can get rid of the Board of Spokespersons, but if it is not maintained and from the presidency it is said, specifically, that this agreement is maintained, we must make this Board of Spokespersons, which we support.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.205.0	Look, if it helps to clarify, as I said, the points that remain of the order of the day in a nutshell... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Lady Sirvent, I have the word I, listen to me later, in any case, if I want to intervene ask me the word. Post-interventions are motions... [[Funnel veils]] and interpellations, and motions for resolutions. The motions for resolutions have already said that there are five minutes per parliamentary group and sub-parliamentary group, so here there is an equal time for intervention, and in the rest of the time the usual. This means the time they correspond to the group and the time they usually correspond to the parliamentary subgroups. There is no other time when there is a debate on time, because, I insist, the motions for resolutions are five minutes. So, same time for everyone, and in the motions, the time they usually correspond, huh? Say'm, Miss Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.206.0	Yes, Mr. President. We maintain the request for the suspension of the plenary and the convening of the Board of Spokesmen, unless you apologize and rectify and say that you have not complied with the agreements we made on the Board of Spokesmen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.207.0	Member, the agreements to the Board of Spokesmen are those that are marked in the Minutes, they will be able to prove to the Minutes how it is only about motions for resolutions. In the Minutes we are only talking about motions for resolutions. I agree with you, and as Mr. Pedret expressed now, that in the future – and also to Mrs. Segovia – we will have to debate, and if these misunderstandings usually occur, the only solution will be to adapt exclusively to what the Rules say and to make the time corresponding to the Rules. Mr. Riera, I'm asking now that we continue with the intervention, and then we can do the Spokesman's Board, when it's over. [[Carles Riera Albert asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.208.0	President. I'm sorry I had to rectify it. You said, "We won't have to talk. We don't have to talk about it. In the proposed Spokesman's Board, which refers to the organization of the own Ple, it accurately reproduced this same debate during Estonian force, as you know perfectly, and also the rest of the Spokesman's Spokesman. With the literal of what has just been done here, I respect the Board of Spokesmen, which is now a source of controversy. It was said, the literal – the literal – that the Mixed Group would have two minutes for what it does to the motions for resolutions, and also for what it does to the decrees. This was a sign of consensus and acceptance on the part of the rest of the groups, and indeed, Mr. Pedret insisted that it seemed to him that this was beginning to become a common practice, and to become, say, a rule outside of what the Rules said, and that he was calling attention to this feeling that, for this time, he would accept it again, but that, in any case, if that were to become a rule as, obviously, we had set ourselves, therefore, to speak again on the Board of Spokesmen, before the generation – before the generation. So, for what he does to this Ple...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.209.0	Mr. Riera... yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.210.0	...to the Board of Portaveus was made clear. And for what he does to his own Ple, it became clear, too, in the exact same literal. So, the solution...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.211.0	Mr. Riera, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.212.0	If, however, the controversy is maintained, we must convene a Board of Spokesmen...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.213.0	It's clear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.214.0	...right now, to clarify it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.215.0	It's clear. We will hold a Bureau meeting, also convening parliamentary sub-groups that are not there..., and parliamentary groups that are not represented there, and we will address this issue. We'll consult the Bureau, right here, with the groups. Yeah. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, we'll do the Spokesman's Board, we'll be done before. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.216.0	MPs, MPs, ask them to vaginate their scons. Let's resume the session. Before we go on, say that we at the Board of Spokesmen have clarified the speaking times for this plenary and the proper one. [[Widow's remorse.]] All parliamentary groups are involved. And therefore, exceptionally, for what he does at the next debate, he respects the proposals of law and the proposals of resolution, the interventions will be those that were agreed to the Board of Spokesmen and that today, in this Board of Spokesmen held a moment ago, we have again clarified. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, let's keep going. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Deputies, deputies, silence, please, that we will continue with the order of the day. [[Proposals for law accumulated for the multilingual teaching in Catalonia and for the guarantee of the effectively trilingual teaching (debate of totality)]] [[202-00006/12 and 202-00046/12]] The next point is the debate of totality on the proposal of law for multilingual teaching in Catalonia and, before beginning, the adventurous fact that there are two proposals of law, one presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the aforementioned, and another presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, on the proposal of law guaranteeing the effectively trilingual teaching. He agreed to make the two debates together. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Therefore, there will be two interventions first, on the part of the representatives of the group and sub-groups proposing. And in the first place, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, to present the bill's proposal for multilingual teaching in Catalonia, Mr Daniel Serrano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.217.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies, deputies... Greeting also the entities of the associative world, of the field of education, who have been working for many years to end the model of linguistic immersion. Welcome and good afternoon, welcome to Parliament. Adding is better than subtracting. Pluralism is better than uniformity. Freedom is better than isolation, and defending the rights of all Catalans is better than entrenching oneself into nationalist obsessions. For this reason, from the People's Party, we advocate a quality and trilingual education that will put an end to the impoverishing monolingualism that has limited rights and opportunities for so many years. We advocate that the son or daughter of any Catalan may have access to education in three languages as does the son or daughter of any separatist leader. We defend equality of opportunity, and not that separatism hypocritically impose on the rest of the Catalans a monolingualism that they do not want for their own children. Today we present in the Parliament of Catalonia a proposal for a law for a multilingual education in Catalonia, which ensures that Catalan, Spanish and a foreign language are vehicular in education in Catalonia. It's about adding up. We defend that Catalan has the status of a vehicle language, and we want Spanish to have that status as well. Both must be vehicle languages. Not only must Catalan be studied, but it must be studied in Catalan and Spanish. With this proposal of law we would guarantee the change of the anachronistic monolingual educational system, contrary to both the Constitution and the future of our children, for a new system according to the legality, plurilingual, where the Spanish has the presence to drive together with the Catalan, as a teaching language and communication in the educational field. In addition, and in anticipation of the false topics of the separatists, this proposal for a law ensures that pupils cannot be separated into centres or groups on the basis of their usual language, offers the possibility that parents or guardians in the first education may request in the pre-registration form that the learning of the script is developed in the usual language chosen by them. And it states that the formulation of the linguistic project must ensure the use of the official languages and the foreign language as vehicles. To this end, a minimum of 25 per cent of teaching hours is introduced for the teaching of curricular contents in each of these languages, where at least one non-linguistic matter of a truncated nature is included. The rest of the teaching hours could be organized freely by each centre depending on the circumstances and socio-linguistic uses of the studentship of the centre and the preferences of the families. We must now overcome monolingual and exclusionary education, as it is both a question of rights and a question of opportunities. Because it's a matter of rights, yes. The teaching of Catalan and Spanish must have an adequate presence in the curricula, without students being separated in different schools and classes because of their usual language. Excluding Spanish violates the rights of all Catalans, violates the rights of citizens. The public authorities have an obligation and a duty to put in place the necessary measures to guarantee the rights of citizens to use both Spanish and Catalan. And in this sense the Generalitat fails to fulfil its obligations when it imposes an educational model of linguistic immersion in Catalan, universal, permanent and compulsory, where the presence of the Castilian is limited to a Spanish language class, as if it were another foreign language. The Generalitat is excluding Spanish as a teaching language and of normal use in any educational activity, beyond the study of the subject of Spanish language and literature, as well as excluding Spanish from internal and external communications with and between students, parents or third parties of educational institutions. It is a matter of rights, and justice also understands that. The current linguistic immersion, monolingual, exclusionary and compulsory, runs counter to elementary rights, and has been endorsed by both the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, as well as the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. The repeated and constant jurisprudence of various courts considers that the two languages – Catalan and Spanish – must be taught in a sufficient proportion in the educational system as a direct result of their official status, with the aim of guaranteeing the linguistic rights of citizens. This implies Catalan and Catalan classes and, as I said earlier, Spanish and Spanish classes. In other words, the recognition of the co-officiality of Catalan and Spanish derives from the mandate for the Generalitat of Catalonia to include the two languages as vehicular languages, and as a subject of compulsory education in the curricula in order to ensure the constitutional and statutory right to their knowledge and use. In short, the various court rulings have established that the two official languages in Catalonia, Catalan and Spanish, must have a sufficient proportion in the education system, with the aim of guaranteeing the linguistic rights of citizens. I mean, and as I said before and I repeat, there must not only be Spanish classes, but there must be Spanish classes, for a question of rights, yes, but also for a question of opportunities. The richness of the different linguistic modalities of Spain is a cultural heritage that must be the object of special respect and protection. Our language pluralism offers us social and economic advantages and opportunities in a competitive, complex and interconnected world like today. It is a limited, very limited display of intelligence that in a globalized world the common language of 500_million speakers is renounced. I'll give you some data from the Cervantes Institute. More than 577_million people speak Spanish around the world, 480 of whom have it as their mother tongue. The 7.6_per_cent of the world's population is today Spanish-speaking. Almost 22_million people study it in 107 countries. It is the third most widely used language in the network after English and Chinese. Two Spanish-speaking countries, Spain and Argentina, are among the world's top fifteen book producers. Spain, Argentina and Mexico are among the first fifteen film producing countries. In the United Kingdom, Spanish is perceived as the most important language for the future. And in the United States, Spanish is the most widely studied foreign language at all levels of education. If British and American, like many other nations in the world, understand that Spanish is a language of opportunity and of future, why is that separatism closing? If you want Catalonia so badly, why do you want to isolate it and impoverish it? I'll tell you why. Because the separatist programme is a programme of control, of the population, of submission and of indoctrination, to maintain political power despite the mismanagement of its leaders. Even the ultranationalist Ernest Maragall, recognized when he was an Education Advisor, that many students did not have enough level of Castilian. They will remember when he claimed that Olot students had difficulty expressing themselves in Spanish. Nor recognizing this anachronism and the prejudices associated with linguistic immersion, were they able to introduce the third hour in Spanish, not even in this circumstance. And it's that your plan, your separatist project, has nothing to do with freedom or modernity. It is a plan of national construction, of linguistic and cultural impoverishment, of homogenization and of isolation and of political control. Nationalism is an ideology of the nineteenth century that demonstrated its terrible effects in the twentieth century and that should be overcome in this twenty-first century. Nationalism must be overcome with more freedom, with more openness and with more opportunities. That is why this proposal for a law makes a decision on the teaching of foreign languages. The teaching of foreign languages is essential and must complement the language learning of pupils. They must have the opportunity to form themselves and prepare themselves for an increasingly open and globalised reality in which transversal and geographical mobility requires the knowledge of one or more foreign languages. That is why this law assumes this challenge and reaffirms the commitment to multilingual education that both UNESCO and the European Union place at the very heart of the ideal educational models. But the groups that support the Government have neither been nor are in favour of multilingual education. Therefore, we are not surprised by his amendment to the whole, because in recent years we have seen a hard struggle between Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalonia, for seeing who is more radical, who impoverishes Catalonia more, who violates more rights and who limits our children's opportunities more. Therefore, I insist, we are not surprised by your amendment as a whole. Your position is retrograde, reactionary, up to what separatist nationalism means, and therefore we are no longer surprised by you. However, we are puzzled by the position of those who call themselves progressives. If they defend progress, equal opportunities and the rights of all Catalans, we ask the Socialist Party of Catalonia to withdraw here and now its amendment to the whole, renouncing to continue to be the companion of separatism, supporting this proposal of law, that the only thing it claims is that the children of a Catalan working family have a future as hopeful as the children of a separatist elite family. Another position would be incomprehensible. It would be the test of hidden covenants to keep armchairs. It would be a betrayal, another betrayal, of its voters and Catalans. They now have an opportunity to redeem themselves by supporting this bill, which would also represent a good exit pistol to their upcoming congress, in which we are told that they are working to revise the model of linguistic immersion. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, the movement is shown to be moving. And today they have a good opportunity to start walking, withdrawing their amendment altogether. Nothing more and thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.218.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sonia Sierra has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.219.0	Good afternoon, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Councillors, members of the public accompanying us and to whom I would like to apologize for this delay. Before we begin with the defense of the proposal of law I want to condemn the terrible images that we have seen at the Autonomous University of Barcelona. It cannot be that totalitarians attack students and workers. That's all right. We must expel fascism from the university, and I hope that, for once, the Rectorate will rise to the occasion, condemn the facts and take action and not hide in an alleged equidistance. [[Greetings.]] One of the reasons why I entered politics was to combat that injustice which is the wrong so-called linguistic immersion, and I say ‘badly called because for almost half of Catalan pupils, all those who have Catalan as their mother tongue, it is not a system of immersion, it is simply a monolingual system in their own language. The truth is that in the middle of the 21st century a model with a single vehicle language is defended, so it is already quite anachronistic. But it is also one of the defenses that they claim is that in the 1980s some institutes on the outskirts of Barcelona demanded this model. Well, the truth is that they didn't exactly ask for this model, the same way that this is not Marta Mata's model, who was a defender of mother tongue education. But among so many lies the truth is that this is almost a matter of nuances. The case is that it is amazing that they claim as the best possible system a system of the 1980s. In these forty years, education has evolved a lot, and in particular, language teaching has evolved a lot. And the truth is that, outside the Catalan nationalist ecosystem, no one can think of defending as optimal a model forty years ago. But there is also no other democracy in which the official language of the country, which is also the mother tongue of the majority of Catalans, is not a language of education. That is why this proposal for a law that you want to veto has as its main objective to end this anomaly and to equate us with the rest of the world's democracies, which I think is the desirable thing. As I said to you, this is an unfair system, which harms both Catalan speaking students and Spanish speaking students. Let's start with the students who have Catalan as their mother tongue and also live in a Spanish-speaking environment. It is clear that, with zero hours of Spanish in early childhood education, two in primary and three in secondary education, most of them do not achieve a good mastery of the language or the desired fluidity. And I'm going to give you a close example: Mr. Batet, who is not with us today, spokesman for Junts per Catalunya, that is, the person your party considers to be best expressed and that is why they have made him spokesman. Well, when at a press conference he was asked, please, to answer the question in Spanish, he apologized for speaking about his deficit Spanish and said textually: « My Spanish is from Valls, he is such a Spanish, a little Spanish from Valls. I, who have studied dialectology, do not know very well what it meant, but we are all clear that it does not dominate Spanish. And we are talking about one of the greatest representatives of Catalans. So, separatists, how can you claim that all Catalan students come out with a very good level of Spanish, when it turns out that even your spokesman is not able to answer a question in Spanish? Look, it's obvious that languages are learned in use, and you can't master a language with two or three hours a week. And the great argument the immersive advocates make is that Spanish already learn it on the street. Well, look, beyond that there are environments that are not Spanish speaking, do you imagine the Government of Scotland, which you claim so much, saying that you are going to give only two hours of English a week because, total, if English already learns it on the street? But do you not realize that no serious government makes such statements? Look, one of the many fallacies used by defenders of this unjust system is that at the end of education students speak Spanish and Catalan. It is not that the students leave the school speaking both languages; it is that the majority of the students enter the school speaking both languages. Because, if we look at the history of humanity, the people we have been able to go to school are just a footnote, and over thousands of years people have spoken one or more languages. Because that's not what's at stake, it's not about speaking a language; that's what you don't learn in school. What one learns in school, what one would have to learn in any serious educational system, is that at the end of schooling students have a cult level of Catalan and Spanish, something that currently does not happen, say what the official propaganda says. Let us now look at the case of the Spanish-speaking students. A few months ago I met with Mr Bargalló and his team, who I have to say were very kind to me, and I told them – you will remember, Mr Councillor – that it was not true that the students went out with a good level of Catalan from the institute. And now I don't say it anymore: it's now you recognize it up to TV3! Look, here's the headline. [[the speaker shows a full camera]] "Teachers and linguists report that there are students who do not know how to speak Catalan when the ESO is finished. I hope that you will pay more attention to TV3 than to me, because TV3 recognizes that it is not true about the model d'éxit, because the students do not come out dominating even Catalan. And, look, if some students have been taking classes in Catalan from the age of four to the age of sixteen and leave without speaking Catalan, as TV3 tells us, it is obvious that something is failing in the system. In my view, there are two fundamental reasons for this failure. The first is of a scientific nature and is more than studied: for a student to succeed in his academic life and to learn well other languages, it is very important that he acquires a good foundation in his mother tongue. That is why it is so necessary for reading to be done in the mother tongue, something that is denied to more than half of Catalans. Even advocates of linguistic immersion in Canada recognized this. This first reason, that of the importance of the mother tongue, as I say, is more than studied, there is a very broad consensus in the international scientific community, and it is also claimed by UNESCO and UNICEF, with which there is no reason for doubt here. This is it. The second reason is already harder to prove, but it is the fruit of my twenty-year experience in teaching languages. And it is that, in order for an apprenticeship to be of any kind, it takes demand and consent from the student. Beyond the facilities that each one has for languages, if a person connects emotionally with that learning, in this case with language learning, it will be easier to learn it. And I will set an example: no one learns a foreign language more easily than that person who has fallen in love with someone who speaks that language. And unfortunately, here in Catalonia many students perceive Catalan as a language of imposition, as the only possible language of the school, and that does not predispose them positively to language learning and in fact usually provoke rejection when they reach adolescence – that was also commented to the counselor when we saw each other. Another of the fallacies that we have heard more than once in this very Parliament when some Spanish-speaking Member came out and said: "It is that I learned Catalan thanks to linguistic immersion... Ah, great; I learned Catalan thanks to the fact that I did not suffer from linguistic immersion. That's it, disassembled argument. To argue that the only way to learn Catalan is through this unjust system falls by its own weight, because in the rest of the world there is no such system and students learn one or more languages. To say that with two or three hours a week Catalan students are perfectly mastering Spanish and English is simple and plainly lying, because if this statement were true we would be faced with a unique case in the world: that of learning a language without practically any dedication. If that were true, the salary of Catalan and English teachers would have to be multiplied. And, on the low level of English for Catalan students, we have the evident proof in this very Parliament, since we had to approve a moratorium so that university students did not have to certify a level of B2 in order to graduate. It is that to have a good academic level of English it is necessary that students receive more hours in that language, and not only of language learning, but also as a vehicle language, something that in the rest of Spain they already have clear, they have been imposing this model for a long time, and here in Catalonia we are left behind. What is the only autonomous community that does not provide information on English subjects? Catalonia.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And why doesn't he give data? Man, because we would be ridiculously close to the rest of the autonomous communities. Look, for too long, linguistic immersion has been a taboo subject. It is absolutely clear that there is a majority consensus, that it is the only system that guarantees social cohesion and that it is a model of success. Well, the three statements are bluntly false, but anyone who dares to question them risks suffering all kinds of disqualifications, such as those courageous families and associations that fight for a more just system, and to which from here we want to demonstrate our full support. Look, you don't want to talk about this, and the most obvious proof is your amendments as a whole. They do not want to even talk about the subject because they know that their defense of immersion is based on fallacies and lies, and they do not want experts to come and challenge their magical thinking, which comes so well to them, with scientific and pedagogical arguments. And above all, they do not want to be disassembled by linguistic immersion because, above all and above all, it is the cornerstone of their exclusive nationalism. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.220.0	To defend the papers presented to the totality, they now have the words of the parliamentary groups that have presented them. And in the first place I correspond, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, to Mrs Esther Niubó. When he wants to. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.221.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies– forgive us, that we had a small matter of form–, in the first place, therefore, wanted to celebrate the opportunity of this debate. He actually cheated, because we see that the PP's proposal was registered on March 2018, so it's more than a year and a half ago; the Ciutadans, the month of enguany's fever, is already de_mesos. I must therefore say that I am not surprised that you are carrying your proposals to the House, and that you are carrying them now does not seem casual to us. We understand, in a way, that we are responsible after the controversy that has generated the debate, so that in the PSC we have and that we will have the head of the week during our 14th congress. We had heard a lot about language from these two political forces, but it means that until today their proposals had not been implemented, so I would like to say it again, because it allows us, therefore, to counter arguments and arguments. Look, I want to start by highlighting an element that, despite opposition and reluctance at its beginnings, despite the debate we have today, no one is discussing today, that it is the full political consensus that exists around the common school model, a school that does not segregate the student for reasons of language or its origin. And I emphasize this because this consensus that today there is around this model of school is the result of the historical contribution of the PSC in that debate of the eighty years, concretely of 83, when before the will of the ruling nationalist party at that time, Convergence and Union, also of the UCD, and also of the Republican Esquerra, which at that time followed the articulating of a double-line model, in Catalonia a majority of leftists made it possible to weave an educational pact that in large measure was proposed by the PSC, defended for Marta Mata, for Pepe González, and also for the PSUC. A proposal that ran from the double line and bet on a common school model; not Catalan, because this meant that there was one of Castilian: a common school. And a model driven by the non-nationalist lefts that had three great pillars: not separating children into different classrooms for linguistic reasons, teaching all two languages until the level of compulsory teaching is increased and ensuring knowledge of all two. And it means that this didn't only affect infants and families, so did the faculty, which in general, therefore, picked up, accepted and was involved in normalization. And the system worked fast. And is this or has it been a success model? I don't know. Surely it would be good that you have much more resources to be able to talk about success model, a model that guarantees the success of education in a majority way, that guarantees fairness in the system, inclusion..., and from this we are still far away. But what is clear is that Catalan learning continues to be one of the main tools of cohesion and social promotion in Catalonia and has guaranteed equal opportunities. The families who arrived from immigration in the fifties and sixties, and also more recently the arrivals of other indwellers of the world, have seen in the learning of català an element of social promotion. And this was a model..., this model of school, the one that contributed to making real bilingualism possible, guaranteeing this domain of the two languages at the end of the ESO, a domain in many better cases, both from the catal as well as from the castle, and we won't have to talk. But a model that ensures respect for the two official languages, the normal coexistence of these languages to society and educational centres. Now, said that, and it seems very important to me, nothing is sacred; or, in any case, the debate about the language model to the education system cannot be a taboo debate. We can all review it and we need to review it, if it is with the aim of improving the learning of languages, which has been united or which has to be joined to the debate on equal opportunities, social cohesion and coexistence. But for a long time this revision or updating of the cal model is based on data that allows us to analyze better the efficiency and performance of the system. And clearly we're missing, all the experts say. I would agree that, among all of us, we can make a joint debate and ask for more indicators than we have at these times for as much as society, and above all the hands of experts, of teachers, of educational inspection, we can thoroughly evaluate the system. And that's also the department's responsibility. We need to be able to better evaluate the system. And I would also like to highlight an evidence: neither this country – and I speak of Catalonia – is monolingual nor the sociolinguistic reality of the territory is uniform. This is why it is not surprising that the immersion model, as an instrument or pedagogical tool to the learning service of the catal and castle, to the various schools or is flexible depending on these needs, if we have different socio-linguistic contexts. And that's why I can hear immersion as a flexible instrument to serve the objects that mark Catalonia's Education Law. Article 10 says: "The curricula must guarantee the full dominance of the official Catalan and Spanish languages in finalizing the compulsory teaching. Therefore, catal as the vehicle language, compatible with the vehicle use in the curricula of other languages, such as the castle or English, to fulfill the object marked by the LEC. Subject to which we think we should add each time more English as the third preferred language to ensure equal opportunities, that no child or young person ends ESO without a minimum competence in English, that inability to continue a specific training or to work in many fields that require the domain of this language. And, therefore, we cannot allow the student who believes a sufficient level of English, who has a favourable socio-economic environment, and those who can't believe a functional use of it, who are normally students of families with lower returns, who cannot complete the education of their children with extracurriculars or with foreigners. And it said that the immersion model is a flexible instrument and that it has to be; an instrument that must be and is in the hands of teachers, teachers, not politicians. And, therefore, we reject any attempt to use the language politically or to use the language politically. They have often heard us say that we always ask that we do not risk living together at the educational centres; we give them to one another and we give them to the other. But we've seen it happen all the time, one side and the other side of the bench. He did not pay much to remember, therefore, as ex-Minister Wert said that the government of the PP wanted to espanyolitize Catalan children; or members of the current government signing the manifesto Koiné, a speechist manifesto that claims the unique officiality of the català, that rejects bilingualism, which speaks, for example, of "immigration coming from Spanish speaking territories as an involuntary instrument of linguistic colonization, a very similar expression to that of many lamentable writings of President Torra, or a sector of independence that has historically defended that calibre decastellanitize and then retalanize. Well, of these, of each other, as you can understand, we don't accept anything. And we, the PSC, do not want to make an interference in the school with party interest, absolutely. What we want is to see if the school makes it like a horse, to improve the skills of the student in its conjunction and to give tools and resources to the master to improve the student's educational success, to ensure equal opportunities and to further strengthen social cohesion. And that is why respect for the autonomy of the centres, and also of the pedagogical criteria, seem to us to be the key. And this model means that it must be a flexible instrument, that must be updated and adapted on a case-by-case basis, that must be translated into a linguistic project of each centre, that can be reviewed – if necessary, each course – depending on the socio-linguistic reality, the composition of the student, and also the results of the tests of basic skills. If in certain centres, schools or institutes, or barrels or municipalities, it is necessary to strengthen the català, which is done; if in others it is necessary to strengthen the castle, which is also done. And we will surely see that it is necessary to strengthen the teaching of English or a third language. And that's why we're radically against the percentages. Hours we do not have to impose policies; it must be the teaching teams of each school, at each institute, that do so according to the needs of each centre. And the teachers have to do it, actually, but they don't have to do it alone. More teacher training, more advice at the time to evaluate and design projects, and more involvement of the educational inspection to guide. And to evaluate the results, to control that the objectives are effectively relaxed, to check practices, if necessary, to establish modifications, if necessary, in the learning of some of the official languages, and also of the foreign languages. And so, ultimately, we continue to defend the català as a vehicle language, we defend a model in which the català is the center of gravity, but without that it can mean an insufficient presence or exclusion from the castle. And that's what we want to make clear. And we also defended the right to education and freedom of choice of centres. But it's not the same – and therefore we didn't defend it –..., we didn't defend the right to choose centers or language on the part of families; it's different things. And we oppose it because this would bring us back to segregation, which today no defense. For what makes access to public office, it does not cease to surprise the defenders of trilingualism, at the time of contracting public workers, do not consider that the domain of one of the official languages of Catalonia should be a required requirement. But, ultimately, we agree that we need to be able to review the model, but without biases, without political instruments, and always starting from data, some of which we do not have. We need to be able to assess the effectiveness of the system. And we also agree with the importance of strengthening language skills in foreign languages to improve in fairness, and also the need for the presence of the castle at school. But we cannot share the general philosophy of the law's propositions, because we do not question the català as the vehicle language, nor do we agree with the imposition of quotas, nor with the conditions of access to the docile body that you propose. For all this we have presented a statement to the totality of the two proposals, because we do not consider it necessary to amend the LEC in order to make the best of it. Now, let's face the debate, but we have to do it as we please: listening to everyone, with data, with an in-depth study planned and always counting on the knowledge of the experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.222.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of the deputy Jessica Albiach. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.223.0	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to all of you. Today the People's Party and Citizens bring us two proposals of law to end linguistic immersion. Some speak of a multilingual model; the others, of a trilingual model, but in the background what they claim is exactly the same, that it is to extract one of the few consensuses that we still retain in Catalonia, and it is that the Catalan follows the only language to drive to the public school. And they do it by creating controversy where there were no, by opening false debates and responding only to party and recent interests, which hurt all the working classes and, moreover, break with equal opportunities. Because, if really – and here I am convinced that we all agree – what we want to do is to improve the learning of foreign languages, it is written that nowhere is this to be against their own languages. But to move forward, I'd like to talk about three realities. The first is that the People's Party and Citizens have no authority to say what the learning of the languages at the Catalan public school should be, they see what they have done to other territories. I believe that everyone here knows that I come from València; well, there I have suffered what are the public policies of the People's Party, destined and directed only to end the use of their own language. Actually, when I got here a couple of years ago, so I didn't speak Catalan in public, because I didn't have the necessary solvency, nor did I have the security or the confidence in myself, because I never did, did I? In fact, if, for so many years, valence has survived, despite everything, the Valencian country, it has been thanks to our opinions and our avies, that it was agreed and decided that the speaker would still be at home; and that's what it was. And, in fact, I, when I was there, the only place where I could speak Valencia was my home. Well, the anti-Catalanist obsession of the People's Party was up to such a point that it brought us to situations as surrealistic as to say that the català and valencia were different languages or to have a public television, paid with the money of everyone and everyone, where the language itself was only used to make you come. This is the supposed authority that the People's Party has to, now, come and say what it's supposed to be and what it's supposed to be like in school. But this was not a reality in Valencia: the Balearic Islands passed exactly the same. And in the case of Ciutadans, now that it has first entered the autonomous institutions, it is no longer to be remembered that according to assumptions of the Junta d'Andalusia with the People's Party and with Vox they allocated a match of one hundred thousand euros to « alleviate the problems that originate in the descendants of the members of the Andalusian communities the processes of linguistic immersion, in order not to add the repeated attempts to eliminate any type of subsidy to all the entities that promote catalá in the territories of linguistic domains. Therefore, some of them are not just a danger to the public school, so that they defend the double network with all their nature, because they give more priority to the free choice of center for the fight against school segregation or, in the case of the People's Party, because it is beyond the education law that has done the most to our public education system, as was the LOMCE. So... to all this we must add that, moreover, they want to end the català as the cohesive element of our societies. The second element, the second reality to which I wanted to refer is that Catalan is not a minority language, but it is a minority language. In areas such as the judiciary has a very, very small use, and in others, such as commercial, 90_percent of the labelling of products is in castle, something that does not happen to other multilingual countries, such as Belgium, Switzerland or Finland. Therefore, català is a language that needs to be protected, a language that needs to be promoted. But I also want to say and make it clear that this cannot be done through sectarianism, it cannot be done with manifestos, which we consider regrettable, such as the Koiné manifesto, and it cannot be done with attitudes, which we also consider reprehensible, such as that of the Councillor, that of the Government spokesman, Mrs Meritxell Budó. We believe that it must be done with pedagogy and that it must be done with intelligence. And the third point I wanted to add is that all academic results show that young Catalans and children have a good level of Spanish language and that, moreover, their scores are in the middle of Spain. And now the lords of the City and the People's Party will come to me and tell me not to get involved, from the evidence of basic competitions. Well, let's not look at the evidence of the generality's basic skills, let's look at the evidence the Ministry of Education does; and they'll say to me, "These don't serve us either. Well, let's look at the evidence from the PISA report; "yet less! Well, let's see what the Bofill Foundation says: "Neither. So let's look at the entrance tests at the university, the PAU, the known as "selectivity, where students, the Catalan student has a grade of 6.41 in Spanish and in literature and have a midjana approval of 83.80_per_cent of approvals; therefore, they are per against the mid-Spanish, and even are per against the knowledge and solvency of the Catalan language. Therefore, I ask you to leave the schools quiet, that the education system does not need false polemics or persecutions; what it needs are resources, are investments and is trust. It is clear that the learning of foreign languages needs to be improved, but it is not necessary to do so in its own language. And also – and I want to make it clear – to leave Catalonia is not the heritage of those who are independent; it is the heritage of all and of all, as well as of those who say they are fulfilling. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.224.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of MP Mònica Palacín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.225.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselor, deputies, deputies, says Mr. Pablo Fernández Vázquez, PhD researcher at the Department of Political Science of the University of New York: "There is a crucial aspect that, in my view, makes the Catalan language model the most ambitious. The school's vehicular language in Wallonia, French, is the vast majority of the mother tongue in the region. In Catalonia, however, the language of instruction does not coincide with the native majority language, which is the Spanish language. Thus, while Catalan is the initial language for only 31_per_cent of Catalans, 43_per_cent have Catalan as an identification language and a similar percentage usually uses it. Do you know what language my seven-year-old son is socializing? My son, who is part of this 31_per_cent of what Mr. Fernández Vázquez spoke of, socializes in castle: in castle to the patí, in castle to the street, in castle to the online games, to his tria of music... It is not a case, obviously, and I am not speaking, therefore, of a metropolitan area: a middle municipality, of fifteen_ thousand inhabitants, of the High Maresme, a small school, where more than half of the families hold the Catalan language as the main one. And do you know what language you're going to have to speak this summer at your first job, a tourist town on the coast of Maresme? So the Englishman, regardless of his results at school, who are not very good – won't want me to say it, but... [[relays]] – or that the language remains, therefore, for him easier or harder to learn. [[Widow's remorse.]] This is social trilingualism, plurilingualism when we add other languages that come from the official language of the family or when the learning of foreign languages enters it, a plurilingualism that must be arrived at in order to achieve a culturally rich and plural society. They have also spoken today, some of you, of the inician, of the origin of linguistic immersion policies. And everybody knows where these policies come from, everybody knows where they come from. The first application of the linguistic immersion program is due to term 1983, the course 83-84, to dinosaurs of the metropolitan municipality of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, with a population of mostly Spanish-speaking students, since they were, many of them, vengued families of different Spanish peoples in the sixties, but those wanted their children to be educated in Catalan. And from this pressure from the families, the first centre to apply it was the Rosselló Puercel School in 1983. Knowledge of the two official languages at the same level has been possible because the Catalan language is the language normally used in the education system, which makes up for linguistic use in our society, so it can be said that Catalonia has effectively managed to make the whole of the population completely bilingual. The teaching of the Catalan language at the educational centres has been one of the key elements in maintaining the intergenerational transmission of the Catalan language, and it is also a guarantee that the knowledge of this language is spread throughout society. Globalisation processes in the economy and cultural industries also benefit clearly from the use of international languages, stronger languages from the demographic, economic and political points of view. This is why most language communities need to protect their language space. In the case of Catalonia, one of the instruments of protection agreed and ratified for the citizens of Catalonia is the consideration of the Catalan language as the backbone of the education system and as the key element for ensuring social cohesion. And these communicative skills – and they also happened –, when we talk about basic skills, according to the PISA report, although, therefore, there are people who do not have it as a reference, they are clear, and it is that the students have a similar knowledge of Catalan and Castilian language. The standard mark shields the model, which is reflected in the processes of university access tests. The midjana note of the 19th year of the access tests, the midjana note of the Catalan language and literature test was a 6.85; the midjana note of the Spanish language and literature exam, a 6.89. It should also be noted that during the four, five last years the note of the Spanish language has always been in the midst of the Catalan language test. And the result of English, that here we would all agree, a 6.43, that can continue to improve. O miri, another jifra, that this will please them, especially the deputies of Ciutadans, since they always make reference to the problems of Catalans and one of these is reflected in the lists of the CEO, of the problems or concerns that the Catalans perceive: the percentage of citizens and citizens softened for education in Catalonia is of the '1,7_per_cent, but of the list of important concerns or problems that the Catalans consider not in any way – cap – that you refer to the complaint of the greater presence of the castle in the classrooms, cap. As you see, this is not just a criterion that convinces its voters, that of the Spanish language to the classrooms. Perhaps, if they continue complaining and continue betraying this theme, perhaps it will not be a 1.7_per_cent its result, but perhaps, at their own elections, a suspense. I believe that it is also an interesting element to consider on behalf of the Socialist Party's companies, which have opened the melo to the debate on language, in our hearing, to try to capture the voter you are losing. I therefore believe that these results of the problems of Catalans should also be taken into account. The only article in the proposal, because in general there are many proposals that refer to articles that have been brought here and that have been discussed, say that it is very worrying that they make ideological debates on an issue that is strictly pedagogical. The language model in Catalan classrooms has always had a consensus not only political, but also unanimous in the educational community, in favour of the Catalan language being the vehicle language, of reference. And vehicle language, yes, because it is incompatible that there are two vehicle languages. Vehicle language is one. The only article, in any case, of his proposal that we might agree on is that which refers to the promotion of català as the language of learning abroad. And that, it could already be done without retrieving or modifying the LEC, because it is the Spanish State that has to promote the co-official languages. We want to explain ourselves to the world, we want to open borders, we want to explain Catalan language and culture. Ask the Spanish government why they don't promote co-official languages. It is for all this, and all that we have exposed, that we pose this theme to the totality, to the two proposals of law, and we will follow firmly convinced to defend a model that came from the will of those families of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, that Santa Coloma de Gramenet worker and socialist, the first of many of the royal belt, that followed it and that they saw it clear to give the same opportunities to their children, to want to be part of a country project and that they have gone adapting to a reality of a society every time more different. A model– that, while agreeing with Congresswoman Niubó – better, surely, we hope that now also questions that were an active part, you, the Socialist Party. And Mrs Niubó also said "nothing is sacred; exactly, Mrs Niubó says nothing is sacred. When you see Mr. Sanchez, you say so. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.226.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Together for Catalonia is Mr Xavier Quinquillà's return now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.227.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies, deputies, members and representatives of the educational community. Reading the statement of the two propositions of the Law, I had a first illusion, frustrated, unfortunately, that these propositions for multilingual teaching had this intention to open the school world wide and to put in value the languages, from their plurality, in this concept of "plurilingualism". Unfortunately, you, what you have done, once more is to pose, focus on the presence of the castle in the Catalan education system, on this obsession with making language a problem where, really, there is no such problem. I will allow a small analysis of the various proposals that you include in these laws. Starting first, logically, by the weights: exclusion from the castle. You speak of "systematic and structural exclusion of the Spanish language from teaching, "the Generalitat, which de facto imposes an exclusion in teaching of the Spanish language, speak of "systematic discrimination and exclusion...Really, a person who does not see here, who does not know the Catalan reality, would be convinced that we are actually talking about an apartheid system. And he only wanted to make an element, a fragment, in this case, of an article that was published by the Director General of Linguistic Policy on the grounds that « in Catalonia, the castle has some indexes of knowledge that take 100_per_cent to all age groups, that « nine of the two television channels most seen in Catalonia emit in castle, or that, in change, « only 8_per_cent of the judicial sensations are in català, as well as 9_per_cent of the notary documents, or 9_per_cent of the mercantile documents. These, I suppose, are the fruits of a system of discrimination and systematic exclusion; now I'm not quite sure which language we're talking about. A problem, you center..., a problem that is centered on the linguistic immersion system. A system that is discriminatory, that violates rights and that, moreover, and this is already a recurring issue, negatively affects school income. It has been said several times – a new falsehood – that there are no significant differences in the level of linguistic skills between the catalan and the castle in our students and, at last, someone as little suspected as Wert had recently acknowledged that the negative effects of immersion on the castle are not demonstrated. A model of immersion, moreover, and you have said that they contradict the recommendations of the European Parliament and UNESCO. So yesterday, the Council of Europe published a document on the protection of minority languages which criticized the language policy of Spain. And a report from the High Level Group on Multilingualism, created in the European Commission in 2005, describes the Catalan education system as an example to be followed to promote language learning and refers to the know-how acquired in the educational centres in Catalonia where sophisticated methods of immersion and special training programmes for teachers have been implemented for decades, all of which recommend extending these practices to other areas of the European Union. However, you continue with this obsession with the problem and therefore with the solution: the overcoming of linguistic immersion, moreover, with this new imaginative concept of "vehicle language". Congresswoman Palacín made no reference. I will not explain it again, I have already done it on repeated occasions in this Faristol, which means "vehicle language and that there can only be one of vehicle language, as the vehicle language is synonymous with free language. There's a vehicle language in the world, it's English. There's a vehicle language in Spain, which is Spanish. There is also a vehicle language in Catalonia which, unfortunately, is Spanish because it is the most spoken language for all the citizens of Catalonia and, therefore, the school has to be a factor that corrects this reality since obvious, respect for the linguistic rights of everyone. For what you also make – more proposals than you make –, respect the linguistic project. The linguistic project, they say – and we share this – must be adapted to the socio-linguistic reality of the centre and to the global and individual needs. All this, with this flexibility of what has been talked about, a flexibility that has to be subscribed between the mark of autonomy of centers. But that's right, you, this flexibility, then, the fan disappears with shares: 25_per_cent for català, 25_per_cent for castle and 25_per_cent for foreign language, English, basically. Therefore, we have a 25_per_cent remaining room for manoeuvre of autonomy of centres, but precisely, we can adapt this linguistic project to the global and individual needs. But it is that, besides, in the case of the Valley of Aran, where we also have the orange tree – and you logically also contemplate an additional 25_per_cent – disappears without and without the autonomy of centers to be able, precisely, to exercise this necessary flexibility. Language skills. Linguistic skills, here also make very coherent proposals to ensure above all a good level of linguistic skills to our teachers, with the proposal of the People's Party to eliminate the requirement to have sufficient knowledge and mastery of the Catalan language to be able to oppose. Ras and short, and here it's all over. Or more imaginative proposals, I would say that more ambitious and, above all, more unreal, when Ciutadans proposes that all the faculty will have to hold the title required to teach in English before 2025. The entire faculty, five years from now, must hold the title to teach classes in English. O respect the studentship: when you plant the full domain of the language angle in finalizing the compulsory teaching with level C1. Proposals, I insist, unreal and demagogic, because the record, and you know, uh, that the objectives, levels, in finishing compulsory education, in the European Reference Mark for the languages of the Council of Europe, are, in the case of Catalan, Castilian and Aranish, level B2, and in the case of the first foreign language, level B1. Some more pearl. You claim that the low results in greater complexity environments are motivated by the maintenance of a non-effectively trilingual system. It is to say, that if we implement trilingualism, the problems arising from the environment of greater complexity will be solved. I'm sorry, but this is an acquittal. They also have a curious concept of the use and promotion of català. The PP has already directly called for the repeal of Article 167, so that the department will no longer be able to cooperate with administrations and entities in the Catalan speaking territories. And Cities put forward a more imaginative option: the use and promotion of catalá can only be developed outside the Spanish State. That is to say, the department will be able to collaborate with us outside the Spanish State, for example, in Northern Catalonia. He won't be able to do it with the Valencian Country, he won't be able to do it with the Islands. But, yes, exclusively in educational centres of ownership of the Ministry of Education. I believe that if the Spanish State considers the català as its own language, the Ministry, and also makes reference to the Cervantes Institute, Mr Serrano, they will set up the first ones who will go for the use and promotion of the català in all educational centers in and out of the State. This is what happens in truly multilingual countries, like Switzerland, but it's obvious and we already know that Spain is not Switzerland. Two back pearls that seem especially heavy to me. The first, Mr Serrano, you do plant segregation in the classrooms. You argue that students may be separated into different permanent groups and centres by reason of their usual language in the first lesson. That's what they plant, yeah. And finally, Ciutadans tells us – and I think he pays the penalty that we listen to him carefully – he says, textually, that "the LEC was the result of the imposition of Catalanist elites on the margins of reality and determined to use the schools as a laboratory to the detriment of the quality of the teaching. Certainly, his imagination has no limits, but his irresponsibility, neither. [[Greetings.]] So yes, yes, we and the rest of the groups that will vote in favour of the challenge to the totality we are in the LEC, the Law of Education of Catalonia. The law that articulates the Catalan school model that was approved, I remember, with 80_per_cent of this Parliament. Look, the LEC was not imposed on Catalan elites, the LEC was consensual and was interested in the country, and that is why this is a yes to totality, which is also a yes to the model of Catalan school, it is a yes to the system of linguistic immersion, it is a yes to the preservation of the Catalan language in Val d'Aran. In short, a round-up of coexistence, cohesion and equal opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.228.0	Thank you, Congressman. Before the intervention of the Subgroup of the CUP correspond now a turn to position itself on the items to the totality. Five minutes ago, in the first place, Deputy Daniel Serrano, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.229.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Albiach said that we were breaking the consensus on linguistics. I believe that this debate dismantles that mantra that there is consensus in Catalonia on the model of linguistic immersion, because here there are parliamentary groups that are against that model of linguistic immersion. That is, we do not hide behind an illusion where we think that all Catalans share the model of linguistic immersion. We don't share it, it's okay. I believe that the discrepancy is healthy, even and interesting in a Catalonia that intends to drown everything from the official administration. Therefore, there is no consensus; in fact, there is less and less consensus, and the Socialist Party has therefore opened a door to hope, even though it keeps its amendment to the whole, it tells us that there are no taboos, although, I insist, its amendment to the whole seems to want to reflect it, does it not? , because, if there is no taboo, listen, withdraw the amendment altogether and allow us to debate the model of linguistic immersion in Catalonia. In fact, we shared many things in his speech. In addition to sharing that there were no taboos, you said that linguistic immersion must be flexible. Yes, it has to be; the problem is that it isn't – it isn't. It was not even under the presidency of a socialist president... of two: Mr Maragall and Mr Montilla. Not even there was the linguistic immersion flexible, because it doesn't work. Because the goal of linguistic immersion is not to guarantee rights – it is not to guarantee rights – it is to impose the elimination of Spanish in the Catalan public administration. And education is another leg, and you know it. If Mr. Quinquilla has been betrayed by the subconscious! He spoke of « pearls; for pearl, his: he said, literally, « regrettably, Spanish is the language to be used in Catalonia. But what, unfortunately, Mr Quinquillà? What problem do you have that can be the usual language and vehicle of Catalans? If the subconscious has betrayed him! He has either stripped his public opinion of what he thinks of Spanish in this Parliament. Pearl, yours: that is a problem, that it is regrettable that Spanish can be the usual language or vehicle of Catalans. For pearls, yours, Mr. Quinquillà. [[Widow's remorse.]] Cervantes Institute. The Cervantes Institute offers Catalan classes abroad – it offers Catalan classes. He's willing and subject to demand. If there's no one to ask for lessons [[remorse of the voice]] , unfortunately, because he cannot offer classes; but the offering is – the offering is. In fact, there have been, there have been in Moscow – even – Catalan classes, however many you claim to deny it. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.230.0	Silences, silences...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.231.0	I insist, today we had a good opportunity to have discussed this motion for a resolution to change the model of linguistic immersion. Of the gentlemen of Esquerra and of Junts per Catalunya, we sincerely did not expect anything – I said it in my initial speech – because nothing can be expected of political parties whose political objective is the elimination of Spanish in the official administration of Catalonia. But from you we expected and trusted a little more, especially on the basis of those news that have been coming out, in the last few weeks, that you want to review the model of linguistic immersion. Today they had a good chance to prove it. But I think that, in the end, is going to be nothing. I believe that the electoral winds, depending on how they blow... you try to adapt to the wind, but in the end the wind will take you ahead. Stand down. The language immersion model is a model that tramples on rights. The rights are of the parents and pupils, not of the president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, not of the councillor, not of the deputies, it is of the parents and of the students, and this model is not respectful of the rights, I insist, linguistics of the students in Catalonia, as well as lacking opportunities for the future. If Mr Maragall himself said it when he was a counselor, he said it, it is not that I say it, he said it, that the students of Olot had difficulties of expression in the Spanish language, as surely, perhaps, in Santa Coloma or Cornellà, they have difficulties of expression in the Catalan language. If that can be adapted and spoken! , but being respectful of the two official languages that exist in Catalonia and that have to be both, Catalan, Spanish and a foreign language, to equip not only with respect for the linguistic rights of the students, but also to give our children opportunities for the future, because we are talking about that, about the future of our children, and with that no one in this Parliament can and should play. We must be respectful. I insist, that model of linguistic immersion is a failure of which the Socialist Party of Catalonia is still an accomplice today. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.232.0	Now, they correspond to the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans – Congresswoman Sonia Sierra – also position themselves on the totality exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.233.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, I have made pedagogical arguments, endorsed by the scientific community, and the rest of the spokesmen, for they have come out and resorted to fallacy and magical thought and, in some case, even disqualifications. Look, let's not, that languages are not learned unless they are devoted hours; let's not, that in no country in the world is social cohesion analysed about which languages are part of that system, but about equality and equity. And precisely the so-called "linguistic immersion" goes against social cohesion, because the sad reality is that, in Catalonia, if you have money, you can study in more than one vehicle language and, if you have no money, you have to conform with one vehicle language. They can now claim the Holy Coloma of the 1980s all they want; the reality is that the Catalan education system is classic and tremendously unfair. And that's why we put forward this bill. To say that linguistic immersion is a model of success and that students come out dominating Catalan, Spanish and English can only be the fruit of cynicism or naivety. It is an anachronistic and profoundly unjust system, and since you do not have scientific or pedagogical arguments to defend them, you veto this proposal of law. Now the PSC says they want to make linguistic immersion more flexible and they want to listen to experts. They do not vote in favour of the amendment as a whole, and the way in which experts come to talk about it is precisely by carrying out these proposals for legislation. They say in their marketing campaign that they take as reference the document presented by Mr Bargalló. The truth is that it is very clear that they were not in the presentation of that document and that, one of two, or they have not read it well or they have not understood it, because that document does not say anything new about what is being done all this time and, in fact, it is the fruit, rather than Mr Bargalló, Mrs Rigau and Mrs Meritxell Ruiz. But, well, it's obvious that they don't want to talk in Parliament, because their advertising campaign would be dismantled. They say – and Mrs Niubó said it and I have heard it in the last few days –, the ladies and gentlemen of the PSC say that we must strengthen Spanish where it is necessary, strengthen Catalan where it is needed and English everywhere. Hey, that sounds great. In early childhood education, which is all in Catalan, where are they going to get hours to strengthen the Catalan even more? Of the few in English that are made anywhere? And in primary education, that there are two_hours, and in primary, that there are three, how are they going to strengthen Catalan? Are you going to reduce the Spanish hour to one hour? Will they reduce the small amount of English? Look, one of two: either we're back to magical thinking or it's just an empty content marketing campaign. That is why it would be very interesting for the PSC to answer these questions. Where will they get more hours to strengthen Catalan? Are they going to force students to speak at court hours and at extracurriculars also in Catalan? Where are you going to get them, Mrs. Niubó? If there isn't! And I'm not talking about terminological confusion anymore. Mrs Niubó said that immersion, as a system, serves to learn Spanish. No, that immersion means that everything is in Catalan. It is as if I now say: "Look, immersion in English will serve us, by the way, to learn German. That doesn't work like that! , that languages are learned with hours and languages are learned in use, and all else is lying. And of course the students leave school speaking Spanish, if I have already said so! : because most of them have come in speaking Spanish! What we need to talk about is that students acquire CALP skills, that is, that they master the cult record of language, because they only come out with BICS skills. Can anyone really believe that a Catalan student presents himself in opposition, for example, in Castile and León, on an equal footing with the rest of the students? Look, if you count the spelling, I'll tell them no. And another false claim is that the Spanish level of Catalan students is equal to or higher than the rest of Spain. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What we have had to hear once again is that it is demonstrated in PISA that the level of Catalan and Spanish... But if PISA is done everything in Catalan! But how can they lie so much? But what a defach! And then they say that the selectivity tests... of course, they're not homologable. It turns out that in the rest of Spain there is a history of literature and morphosyntactic analysis, while in Catalonia there is no history of literature and a very easy type of morphosyntaxis test – and I say this with knowledge of cause, because I have had enough of correcting selectivity tests. And they also cited the Bofill Foundation. But if the Bofill Foundation has a study that shows that Spanish speakers are making worse results in all socioeconomic strata! By the way, just like the Civic Partnership, just like the Calero report. Three reports, we've got it, they say it. But, well, it's obvious that you don't want experts coming here to prove all this data I'm saying. That is why they veto this bill, because they do not want their falsehoods to be dismantled. And Mr. Quinquillà said that we create problems with the language. Do you know who causes problems with the language? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Those who spy on children in schoolyards...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.234.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.235.0	...and those who point out [[remorse of the voice]] Immigrant workers...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.236.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.237.0	...by the tongue they speak. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.238.0	Thank you. Then, to express its position, has the word – now yes – the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. Mr Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.239.0	Well, thank you, President. « Convergence and Unity, Republican Left, the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, Initiative for Catalonia Verds - EUiA and the CUP have joined the Parliament to reject a motion of the Popular Party of Catalonia against linguistic immersion, and also in favor of bilingualism to Catalan schools. In a symbolic action, Anna Simó, Rocío Martínez Sampere, Joan Mena, Isabel Vallet and Ramona Barrufet have read from their respectful escons articles of the Law of Education of Catalonia. This was, in the year 2015, the consensus in this Parliament, clearly majority, in defense of the Catalan school and linguistic immersion. Let's face it, already from this debate that has come from the People's Party and Citizens, whether this consensus is maintained or not. On the part of the People's Party, it seems that it is kept in its line; if there is added a new actor, Ciutadans, and we have to see with concern how the Socialist Party begins to break that consensus too, posing in question the linguistic immersion, clearly following Ciutadans. Well, before that, we want to say a principle in the first place. Says Lambert that "in that community in which he has chosen, he is aware of achieving a bilingual or multilingual society, that he may give priority in the beginnings of schooling to the language or languages that have less opportunity to develop. It seems obvious, but I believe that it is a principle that can be affirmed as argumentative principles. Then, we want to point out our point of view on the context in which we find ourselves: effectively, a multicultural and multilingual society, with a multi-lingual presence and future, obviously, in which public policies must be equally recognizable and respect all languages present in our society and equitable and proportionate attention, depending on the dimensions of their communities of speakers, so that the language is never – never – a motivator of inequality or discrimination. And at a time a legitimate political objective that we also want to lay down and claim in this context: that the catalá becomes common language and cohesive between the various linguistic communities. Today it is not, today it is not, and in change it is still a minority language in many areas, such as justice or communication media, among others. Thirdly, we would like to point out a question that we think calls on the common sense of all Members: does the Catalan language have the right and the need for the same, exactly the same public support as the Spanish state? The answer seems to be obvious: yes, it cannot be in any other way, or otherwise who denies it will be assuming or proposing a secondary, minority role, for the Catalan language, which we fear is what you are proposing, starting in the school environment. All these previous questions make the school a fundamental environment in the assimilation of these reptes and these objectives, and, of linguistic immersion, the model actually falls within the current context. Linguistic immersion ensures success in acquiring the linguistic competence of the languages of social use. Moreover, it has been the instrument determining the universalization of knowledge and the domain of català among the entire school population. It was, therefore, a key tool for social cohesion, and it follows. This priority of català in the education system did not diminish the other languages, but that reconciles the culture of origin with Catalan and manages our country's value of multilingualism while respecting the linguistic diversity of our world, in helping to consolidate the català as a common language throughout the territory, in conjunction with the other languages; that it is not only the castle and the English, because there are also other languages that need to be recognized and respected. If there was no implementation of the immersion system, the Catalan society would run like at least two large perils. In the first place, there would be a very high risk of social and linguistic segregation, which would mean a serious problem of social fracture, in segregating Catalan students according to linguistic criteria. Moreover, second of all, it would probably also cause a linguistic incompetence in Catalan language on the part of the students of Spanish speaking families who do not have the opportunity to speak it and develop it in their most familiar or social environment. Thus, linguistic immersion still has other social and collective benefits, such as the recognition of linguistic diversity, as important today in a multilingual society as ours. And, therefore, on the proposal that we are now debating, let me say first of all that this trilingual approach has already been experienced by the català to the Balearic Islands of the hand of the most recalcitrant and retrograde PP of José Ramón Bauzá between 2011 and 2015, which did not hide – I publicly admitted – that it was a barroera maneuver to bring back the català. Secondly, the fact of stating that it will be a multilingual model at school with flexibility, with the flexibility that the socio-linguistic reality in our country demands, and mating after it can rethink the model of linguistic immersion – let's say for the Socialist Party of Catalonia – adds to our concern before this proposal of the People's Party and Citizens, because they show that they do not know what the application of linguistic immersion programs means. Immersion is a method of teaching and learning second languages which is used in those contexts in which pupils do not have the language of the school as a family language; for example, teaching in English in a private school is also linguistic immersion, but it seems that this type of model you do not ask in absolute terms, on the contrary, it seems that you are in favour of it. At the end of the compulsory teaching, the vast majority of students have similar results of català and castella, and it is more so than in the castella tests applied by the State to Catalonia our students have good results. They do not know – or pretend not to know – that the only area where the català is minimally normalized is at school. Why aren't they asking about the situation of language in the judicial world, in the world of communication media or in the business world with the same concern? Mirin, we will continue to defend the Catalan public school and linguistic immersion, because this today means to defend a multicultural, multilingual, equitable and equal society in which the Catalan is a common language and, therefore, of cohesion, and in which no one can ever be discriminated against on the grounds of its language. Before that, you want to break our educational community by language. And we won't allow it, we won't accept it. And for all this we reject the proposals that we are now debating and voting on, even though, Mr. Quinquillà, we are not from the LEC, are we? , we are not from the LEC, a LEC that defends a concerted school and a school segregation that, as you know, we do not admit. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.240.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. We will jointly vote on the totality papers presented for the Socialist and Unites for Progress Parliamentary Group, the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. [[Long break.]] We shall therefore vote on the three items together, and, separately, on the two legislative proposals, of course. We first vote on the totality papers submitted to the Law Proposition for the multilingual teaching of Catalonia. The vote begins. Total submissions to the Law Proposal for Multilingual Teaching in Catalonia have been approved by 90 votes in favour, 38 against and no abstentions. That means that this proposal for you is rejected. And now we are voting together for the papers to the whole of the other law proposal, namely, the proposed law on the effective trilingual teaching guarantee. The vote begins. Total votes were approved for 90 votes in favour, 38 against and no abstentions. That means that this proposal for you is rejected. [[Motion for a resolution on the release of prisoners on 23 September]] [[250-01078/12]] We follow the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the release of prisoners on 23 September, a motion for a resolution tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group Republica and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Cree Constituent. In accordance with this agreement, we will open a five-minute single intervention round for each parliamentary group and sub-group, starting interventions for the three proposing groups, at the Bureau and the Board of Spokespersons, as we have said before. I, in the first place, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent. [[Long break.]] When do you want to, huh? Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.241.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. We want to begin our intervention by calling for the immediate release of Edu, the Germinal, the Txevi, the Xavi, in Jordi, the Ferran and the Alexis, and showing all our support for Clara and David and their families and companions and friends. [[Greetings.]] We also want to thank the 23-S detention support group. The existence of support groups and the generation of mutual support and resistance networks are instrumental in winning the chase and winging and in continuing to fight for our political goals. There have been many mobilizations of support, and of rebuking repression, and for the freedom of our people since more than two months ago nine people were held in an operation of the Civil Guard orchestrated for the National Audience. We want to take advantage of this forum to denounce the situation in which these companies and companies are found. Seven of them are under pressure from the Spanish State with FIES 3. In particular, in Jordi and Xavi it is found in winging rules, which means that they only leave from two to four hours on the day of the eleven-metre-square cell in which they have unjustly undertaken them. All the press have the communications intervened, and all those that they keep with their lawyers. Clara and David find themselves at liberty in hopes of being cited or detained again, with the anguish that this entails. Above all, they carry charges of terrorism, explosions and the organization of possible stars. We understand that these charges do not have any type of legal basis and that they are based solely on the State's political intention to criminalize the independence movement. We have to report that during the judicial process there were serious violations of the right to defence of detained persons, as reported by the Solidary Alert. The defence team suffered numerous difficulties intentionally exercised both for the Civil Guard and for the prosecution, as well as for the National Hearing. Interested media leaks have occurred and parts of the summary have been published without any contextualization that has created legal uncertainty. It was difficult for the lawyers' team to know where the detainees were; it was delayed the first interview with the lawyers until thirty-six hours, and, in the case of Jordi and Ferran, they cheated five and twenty-five days respectively to be able to access their trusted lawyer, which means that their statements do not have any legal validity. The statements of these two people were made in a context of, as a minimum, direct coercion and threats to them and their families. They suffered conditions of detention, in the custody of the Civil Guard, inhumane; they were carried out in a way that was encapsulated; they were days without sleep, and they were interrogated in the morning and during hours without any legal guarantee and, therefore, with flagrant violation of their phonenal rights, they entered the right of defence. So, all of these questions make us think that this is a police operation starring in the state's equipment with a clear political intention, the intention to curb the capacity for popular mobilization and change of the organized people. And it also makes us think that the Spanish State, the constitutional monarchy, inherits and continues the Francoism, claims to criminalize and punish all the independenceist popular movement and, with it, any movement of protest and change, and our companies. It's not the first time we've seen how the crime of terrorism is instrumentalized with this political intent and that the exception of the enemy's criminal law applies. The use of the exceptional repressive machinery from the definition of terrorism is not new; it has also suffered the anarchist movement, the Basque and Welsh liberation movements, have suffered trade unionists, as well as people of the world of culture, and, unfortunately, these people have filled and filled the prisons of the Spanish State of prisoners and political pressure. This motion for a resolution purports to be a denunciation of the violations of the rights described, a denunciation of the politicization of justice and of the National Hearing, condemned in several cases by the Court of Human Rights for not respecting the most essential principles of the right. That is why we hope that this proposal will be approved by a large majority of the House, because we recognize that this piece forms part of a general cause against independence, that in this case there have been irregularities and coercion against the people held, the families and the lawyers and demand the prosecution of the cause is the least that the democratic political forces that are present in this Parliament can do. The rest would mean closing files with a state and some judicial devices that would not tolerate the dissent, or it would also mean the possible unjustified trust in these issues in the non-politicization of judicial devices in the Spanish State.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.242.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr José Rodríguez has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.243.0	Thank you, President. I want to start by greeting the families and support group of the Alexis, the Edward, in Ferran, in Germinal, in Xavier, in Jordi, in Txevi, in Clara and in David, who today accompany us to the guest gallery. We present this resolution because we believe in judicial independence, and those who believe in judicial independence we must denounce when this judicial system abuses people or is used politically. The Abus, in this case, is in the most possible absence of judicial guarantees and protection of the basic rights of persons detained on 23 September and accused of terrorism. It is not the first time that the National Audience makes a quite liberal use of the term "terrorist"; it is not the first time that it accuses without fonaments, as for example in the case of the Adriana or the Tamara Carrasco, or in the case of the titulars. And that, gentlemen, is a banalization of what terrorism is. In Catalonia we have suffered terrorism, and we are under the threat of possible attacks; they are based on an independent movement. And it's very sad that we get to a level where terrorism is trivialized in this way for a court of law. I've listened to him sometimes in this pharystoll, but when a court does it, it's still harder. All this, in the background, is part of an attempt to criminalize a movement that is mostly peaceful and democratic. But it's not the only move we're trying to criminalize. Spain and power try to criminalize everything that questions them. During the general waves of 2010 and 2012 the trade union movement was criminalized; during the past few years a movement such as 15-M has been criminalized, and has been made, in fact, ad hoc laws to prosecute dissidents: Article 315, which only serves to win over trade unionists, the law bites or the new law bites 2.0, which has recently been approved for the Congress of Deputies. For this reason, we are presenting this motion for a resolution, to denounce one more element of persecution and criminalization against dissent, because there is a judicial bust, since all the witnesses say that the basic rights and procedural guarantees of some people who are being accused of terrorism have been violated. And I want to thank those who will vote for us on the motion for a resolution. It is essential to build an anti-repressive front, and that is why I take advantage of making a cry. We cannot do this only with the independence forces; we must sum up the political and social movements that are fighting for greater democracy and against repression and abuses of the 78's regime. I want to end up denouncing and rejecting the abuses that the system can do... I want to clarify, denouncing the abuses that the judicial system does is not going against judicial independence. Those who believe and believe in judicial independence do not want it to be used systematically to commit abuses against all dissidents; those who believe in judicial independence question whether the judicial system applies the Enemy Criminal Code to all dissidents; those who believe in judicial independence do not like us to abuse the figure of the crime of terrorism in order to be able to apply oversized precautionary measures, such as the National Hearing. Because, as I said before, today, the dissidents, to which the Enemy Criminal Code applies, are the CDRs; yesterday, or before yesterday, were the trade unionists; yesterday it was 15M, and tomorrow it can be any of you, whenever you question the economic power and the political status. If that happens, they'll find us there at your side. Even so, those who today do not support this motion for a resolution, we will be with you. Because everyone in Spain can end up patenting abuses of a Spanish justice politicized and instrumentalized by power. I want to end by saying that we are asking for the trial of the case and the release of all persons detained on 23S, precisely because we believe in judicial independence and do not believe in the use of this policy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.244.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the turn of Mrs Aurora Madaula's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.245.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputies, family members and support groups of political prisoners, welcome and thanks. What do these people want to do in the morning? What do these people want when they hatch the door of a house with a family in it? What do these people want when they force a minor to stretch out on the ground next to their father, pointing them at them with long guns? What do these people want when they make house records without the presence of a lawyer? What do these people want when they threaten to be held and family members with a gun to the head? What do these people want when, when they move to Madrid, they are arrested, the old, the hooded, and remind them of what happened to Lasa and Zabala? What do these people want when the Civil Guard filters from official accounts part of the summary and investigations to the detainees? What do these people want when they torture detainees by not letting them sleep for more than twenty-four hours before a police interrogation? What do these people who apply the FIES and winging regime to detainees who have not been processed, thus restricting their oral and written communications? What do these people who are wearing police and democratic justices want to do with Francois police and justice? What these people want, and each time is clearer, is to investigate a general case against independence, a state operation carried out for the National Audience, heir to the Francoist TOP, and convicted on various occasions for the European Court of Human Rights. They want to end up linking, without proof and with an invented relationship, independence with terrorism. These people don't know how to settle a political conflict if they don't have bad arts. The independence movement is and will be peaceful, and the only violence that has been seen in this process is that of the pieces that have opened our heads and our bodies, and also that of the rubber balls, banned for this Parliament, that have been worn by five people since October 1, 2017. What these people want is to continue pre-emptively violating the rights of the independenceists, as they have done with Alexis, Edward, Ferran, Germinal, Xavier, Jordi, Txevi, Clara and David. That they've seen their phone rights violated as well as their right to defense. Your presumption of innocence, or the right of legal and personal communications, between other rights. Unfortunately, we are getting used to the fact that the Spanish State is vulnerable to the rights of speech, in a race every time clearer to assemble in Turkey. The dishes come together in the pots, and the ruling Turkey and the Spanish government in Pedro Sánchez's offices maintain very good relations, without blushing. The feeling of the political prisoners of the U of October marks the path of a clear retreat in democratic rights and freedoms, to the point of bringing to the limit the right of manifestation, assembly, or attack the defense of the right to self-determination. The ruling directly appeals to twelve people, but it asks all democrats, all independenceists. For this reason, we cannot remain paralyzed as we try to make the same fierce political prisoners of 23 September. With today's motion for a resolution, we demand the release of persons detained on 23 September, and the prosecution of the case. We express solidarity with Parliament, with popular support, with prisoners and their families who are patenting this injustice. So let us also hope that the approval of this motion for a resolution, which we have presented together with the CUP and the Republican Left, but I assume that we will count on the support of other groups of this hemisphere, with this anti-repressive front that we want to build, let us hope that the families can continue to denounce internationally the lack of justice that is suffered in Spain. For this reason, we claim that international bodies and institutions are involved in investigating the violation of human rights suffered by entrepreneurs. We welcome, unfortunately, but we welcome the fact that this very week the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, Dunia Mijatovic, has again warned of the excessive use of the police force in the Spanish State and of the restrictive legislation that puts the right to peaceful assembly and freedom of expression at risk. What do these people want to do in the morning? I'm sure they know that. But we won't fail. You're not alone, you have us at your side. Released political prisoners and exiles. Dream Catalonia free! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.246.0	It is the turn, now, to position itself on the motion for a resolution, as the papers submitted have withdrawn. Of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the parable of the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.247.0	Yes; thank you, President. Well, unfortunately, it has already been quite a custom: there is no week in plenary without us having a misconception here on the part of the separatist parties. You have been bringing resolutions to this Parliament for weeks, which are clearly against the legal system. A few days they bring here resolutions to throw the Civil Guard of Catalonia, other proposals that go clearly against the Constitutional Court, and today, therefore, it has touched this one. Today, it seems to be worth paying tribute to the members of the radical separatist commands, who are now under arrest for alleged terrorism. Well, this in any parliament would be unthinkable, but it seems that here, then, everything is worth it. In recent weeks, radical separatist commands have sown chaos and violence on the main streets of the cities of Catalonia. You have besieged the airport, you have faced the bodies and security forces, and today, you come here to defend those who supposedly wanted everything to be even worse, those who had plans to attack in Catalonia. That, by the way, Mr. Torra has gone, but it is that Mr. Torra should perhaps come here to give his face, because it is that he comes out in the conversations of the summary, because the detainees say that Mr. Torra knew his plans to attack in Catalonia. Somebody tell him he can come in here anytime, and he'll face it all at once because he's already playing. [[Greetings.]] Look..., that strategy of normalizing the violence that you are carrying out cannot bring anything good, but it is that, of course, seeing which leader you have, then, you understand everything. Why, is it, who is he inspired, Mr. Torra? For example, on the Slovenian road, the road to war. He says that's an example to follow. If he is also inspired by sociologist Paul Engler, he says that if Catalans want to win they have to polarize much more, than climb much more. They have to accept high levels of sacrifice. A gentleman, too, who says that dying as a martyr is inherent in the winning movements. In this one is inspired, Mr. Torra, in this gentleman. And if not, then Mr. Torra quotes Xirinacs, who said that he declared himself an enemy of the Spanish State and a friend of ETA. These are Mr. Torra's references. Judge for yourselves. [[Greetings.]] Look, they've come too far. In Catalonia you are harassed, intimidated and threatened by those who do not think like you. There are reprisals if you mean against separatism. And now you have gone one step further, and you are normalizing violence. And look, because this is swampy terrain. They have thrown the violent ones who sowed chaos on our streets with total impunity, simply because they did not agree with the rule of law. And today they come here to ask without complexes for freedom for those arrested for alleged terrorism. Radicals that also had materials to prepare explosives and attack in Catalonia. According to the experts, the following explosives could be made from seized materials: ammonium nitrate, termite, RDX, nitroalmidone explosive, pyric acid, ammonium picrate, nitrogen trichloride, acetone peroxide, which is also known as ‘Satan's mother for jihadist terrorism; ammonium triloid crystals, nitroglycerin, potassium chlorate and chemical fire bottle. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Look, I don't know, you guys, but I in the pantry of my kitchen don't have materials to make « Mother of Satan. And I would dare say that all the Catalans who are listening to us... [[applause]] Neither – nor. What were they for? What were these materials for? What were these explosives for, huh? What were they for? What did these people want, Mrs. Madaula? What did he want with these materials and explosions? What did these people want? [[Greetings.]] I'm asking him, too, what did he want? You know it as well as we do. And that is why we cannot understand that you bring this initiative here today to demand the freedom of those who wanted to harm Catalans. You come here today, moreover, to try to do, therefore, what you always do. You're up for it, aren't you? , to vote in this Parliament what is decided in a court of law, what is decided by a judge. Well, look, we're not the people's court. We are no jurors, we are deputies, and resolutions and judicial decisions are not voted on, they are respected. Let's see if they get it right now. It's just that you guys think you have doubts about this, huh? In addition, it is also very funny what you are asking here, because you here speak of 'violation of fundamental rights'. Here the only ones who have violated fundamental rights are you, trampling the rights of more than half Catalonia. Six times since the Constitutional Court gives us the right, six times. Vulneration of rights is what has happened today in the Autonomous Region. Once again, the radicals have attacked the young people of ‘S'ha finit. Which side are you going to put them on? On the side of these young ones, or on the side of the hooded ones? Because I have it clear, all my support for the young people of ‘S'ha finit. You're not alone. [[Greetings.]] You are not alone in defending freedom and coexistence in Catalonia. Take a step back and do not pay tribute to those who had in their plans to harm Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.248.0	On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mr Ferran Pedret has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.249.0	All right. Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... he was going to say hello to the government, but... now yes: councillor, MPs and MPs... [[Funnel veils]] On the part of the groups proposing this motion for a resolution, let us see, a rather delicate question on which we have also discussed, perhaps not strictly in these terms, on previous occasions. On previous occasions, from our parliamentary group, and I myself speaking on behalf of my parliamentary group, we allowed ourselves, because it is our political position, to share what we think is necessary when we deal with issues like these, which is to ask for a little more prudence, a little more prudence when deciding, from the outset, on a question that is now under the judge, and, in the second term, a question that, with pending charges, is so extraordinarily difficult – according to the charges. We have always said, and we maintain, that the principle of presumption of innocence must be respected, huh? And so, as it is clear, there is no firm feeling, we insist that the principle of presumption of innocence be maintained and, therefore, it is not, in agreement with this principle of prudence that we claim, nor should we rush to condemn in advance some people who, in any case, will have to be, let us say, the accusations, those who believe whether or not these facts were committed for whom they are accused. It also seems to us that it is imprudent to rush to make an apology. We fully understand that the position of the defendants' defences may be one that contains some of the points that are submitted to the plenary today. But it's harder for us to hear that political formations are rushing, from the first moment and as the first reaction, to say that all this was just a little bit more than a mountain. In fact, this is the reason for the motion for a resolution. It starts at the first point by asserting that everything folded up is part of a general cause, a state operation against independence, and everything that follows after, rather than proving to believe it, proves to point to this initial statement. We, therefore, understand that it would be useful to make another approach to this whole question. We understand that what we need to do is to wait for the moment when it becomes clearer who are the facts that the court considers to be proven, and therefore, from here on, to pronounce ourselves on the respect of the political and social implications that this may have. And to make abstraction, even though it costs, from the concrete case, to us it seems that there are also several mistakes made in the public debate around this. I say that, regardless of these people in concrete terms and regardless of the accusations in concrete terms about these people. He has tended to say that he claims to accuse the whole independence movement of being violent or even terrorism, right? And it seems to us that this is the mistake of the synecdoch, so to speak, to confuse the part for everything. And, therefore, even whatever you say, who accuses of criminalizing the combination of independence to people who express or who follow a minimum of prudence respect this, I think that they, too, claim to defend independence, are doing it a bad favor. Because we said, when this was a much more accurate fact in time, that it seemed to us that the first reaction should have been..., the hope of a government and a majority of parliament should have been: "Look, look, we don't know if that's true, we don't know, but if it was a little even, until here, we don't have or can have anything to do with anything that we can see with the use of physical violence to achieve political objectives, without going into prejudice if it's true or not that in this concrete case and these concrete people get these facts. But this was the first reaction that many people in Catalonia would have expected. The other mistake of the synecdotal is to take the whole side, is to say: "As the independence movement is peaceful– and this I think, let's say, is undisputed, that in its great mobilizations much has been expressed peacefully–," it is, let's say, ontologically impossible that there is a group of people who have more radical choices for what they do to methods and who may have been studying this type of physical violence exercise. And I do not say, I insist, for this concrete case, respect what we do not know and what we will expect to see a statement of proven facts. But it seems to me that this position of principle of "how the independence movement is peaceful is impossible ontologically that no one resorts to violence seems to me to be a bad favor for a good analysis even of the recent history of our country; it does not so much so that our country's people who are claiming independence would participate in an armed struggle movement, that is, a terrorist organization. Therefore, it seems to us that much more caution would be needed around this. And that's what we very modestly claim.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.250.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the turn of Congresswoman Susanna Segovia, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.251.0	Thank you very much. Members of Parliament, Members of the Bureau, Member of the Government, also wanted to dedicate a greeting to family members and support groups of persons detained on 23 September. We also want to take advantage of this faristol once more to express the concern that we have already shown at its time when the Civil Guard arrested these people, on 23 September, under possible charges of terrorism. We expressed concern about how the right to defence could have been violated, how these people could have suffered defencelessness. We saw images, they were going to get reports that really hit, and that worry a lot in which conditions were given these arrests. We haven't been feeling any more, we've been having more details. We've seen videos where they faded away; we've seen people tell us that children and children were present while their parents were against the wall, and even that the children were placed on the side. We have once and for all expressed the reshuffle of this way of proceeding with the forces of security, but we would also like to say that, effectively, and as has already been said, it is not, unfortunately, the first or certainly the last time we have seen it. We've seen it in previous detentions and we've seen it, and we've heard it and read it in reports made for human rights organizations or the same Greuges Syndicate pull out of the detention of people who were held in protests after the sentence, where also the different security features, and in these cases National Police and Squad Police, could have violated the rights and raped these people during detentions. Unfortunately, therefore, what gives credibility to complaints made by family members and lawyers of business people is that they are not exactly an isolated fact, is that it happens more than we think. And that's one thing we need to think about, all groups, about what kind of police we still have in this country. In fact, we also agree with some of the proposals put forward by this motion for a resolution; for example, in which reference is made to the National Hearing, which we have already seen as often used the accusation of terrorism and its different variants to engage people, to persecute and criminalize the protest. In fact, we don't have much to go on with what happened with the titulars of Madrid for a work of puppets or with the detentions of the Pandora operation, people linked to social organizations and libertarian movements of the city of Barcelona, when their crime, we remember, was practically this, being anarchists. And we also remember that in this case it was precisely the Mosso d'Esquadra that made the arrests taking over the anti-terrorist legislation. I don't think we should forget these things either. Or also the young people of Altsasu, who carry 1,122 days ago to prison for a bar fight, and the crime in this case was to be fought with members of the Civil Guard. And that's why they bring 1,122 days to prison and what's left of them. Actually, what is crying out to him is that, in the logics that we are now in on a systemic violation of rights, these accusations are so disproportionate and vagrant in criminalizing the protest, vagrant in donating a lesson of "watch what fire." He calls attention and alarms us about this scourge of punitive violence, which usually goes to people who are in organizations and who are organized and who report violations of human rights, social rights, and in turn does not react the same way to those delinquents of white collar, who are also at risk of the welfare of the majority. We share the rebuff to these positions and feelings of the National Audience, which we believe is abusing accusations of terrorism with the sole objective of criminalizing the social organization and protesting it. We agree with the majority of points that are presented. There are some questions as basic as rejecting the provisional prison, which we believe is unjustified; as to ask that in the case that they continue to undertake there is an approach to their families, to Catalan prisons. There are basic things we have to support. We don't agree with some of the points, and that's why we presented some papers, which were not finally accepted. We also understand that the family members and the groups who present the motion do not want to accept them. But we do not believe that a parliament is the place where a case must be filed. Precisely why we defend this independence from justice, despite the fact that we do not like it, often, how it works, what criteria and what positions it makes, despite the fact that we believe that a good part of this system, and above all the dome, is absolutely politicized, despite the fact that we have a lot of doubts about its independence... but we believe that, as a parliament, as a legislature or as an execution, it is not from here that we have to make this interference with justice, so that even all of us can give no way to making an appeal to the Constitutional Court. In this sense, we will give support to most of the points; we will abstain in those who demand the prosecution of the case, and from here also all support to families and to the support group to the people who are entrepreneurs. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.252.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, for the Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, has the word Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.253.0	Thank you very much, President. Do family members of people who are willing to express their discontent with this situation have a right in democracy? Yes, obviously; in democracy, yes. Can democracy mean legislative power, that is to say, this Parliament, to disallow the judiciary as it wants to do here today? No; only from a totality view, without separation of powers, which was certainly the experience of the Law of Transition. And now they will say to you, "No, there is no democracy here, there is only dictatorship and repression. Then I ask myself: "If we are in a dictatorship, how is it possible that Mrs. Laura Borrás and Mrs. Miriam Nogueras are taking pictures smiling in Madrid with the leaders of the party that governs the supposed oppressive state? How is it possible that the Republican Left, a step further, is about to close an agreement and even making joint communications with the leaders of the alleged oppressive state party? Because we're dealing with tragedy, the size of tragedy, when we talk about Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia: for the morning you say carcellers and repressors and in the late days you're taking pictures and selfies smiling at them. It's a hypocrisy that's hard to describe. And I say, well, Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia, because the CUP as a whole can be recognized as a certain consistency between what they say and what they do; but you, Junts for Catalonia and Republican Left, are dedicated to scalding the people talking about repression, inciting the lowest passions, and then smiles, photos, nipples and hugs, and seeing what in passing, which is, of course, the history of Catalan nationalism, to seeing what in passing. As you are able to maintain this hypocrisy and cynicism, perhaps from this, it is what you should give explanations to the families who are here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.254.0	Thank you, Congressman. Since your time hasn't run out, we'll call it a vote. And I don't know if there's any separate motion for a vote...? [[Pause.]] Say, Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.255.0	Thank you. To ask for a separate vote on point 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.256.0	Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.257.0	Yes; to ask for separate votes from points 1, 2 and 9, which can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.258.0	1, 2 and 9 together. Any more? Any more petitions? [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.259.0	Well, we'll vote first points 1, 2 and 9 together, after point 7, and the rest of the vote. We therefore vote on points 1, 2 and 9. The vote begins. These points were approved by 66 votes to 54, with 8 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 74 votes to 38, with 16 abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion for a resolution was adopted by 74 votes to 54, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Please, please, to the public, to refrain from making demonstrations... please! Ask the servants of the chamber to remind the public that they cannot make demonstrations. Please. Thank you. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a Climate Emergency Monitoring Commission]] [[252-00022/12]] We follow the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the creation of a climate-emergency monitoring committee, a motion for a resolution tabled by all parliamentary groups and sub-groups. Therefore, we will open a single five-minute intervention turn for each group to stand up to the proposal. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr David Bertran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.260.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, we find ourselves here today to debate the creation of a follow-up committee on climate change, which will most likely be approved unanimously. And that's a good thing, because the climate change of global warming associated with man's hand is a fact that's been going on for a long time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.261.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.262.0	... that it has been scientifically demonstrated and that it has potential negative consequences associated with very hard for the future, unless we do nothing to prevent it. With the rate of greenhouse gas emissions from the past few years, the fear would be that the temperature would rise between three and four degrees by the year 2100, a situation that would have devastating effects for which it makes the fall of agro-ramadera production or natural disasters such as floods, forest fires or sea level fires. And we don't think that the climate change would only affect small island areas of the Pacific, if we don't have them, areas that are well-suited to us, such as the Doñana National Park or the Ebre Delta, could disappear as biodiversity paradises as we know them today. Fortunately, the Paris summit of 2015, one of the great fissures in international politics and on which the European Union held a leading role, managed to pose various actors, countries so disparate as Xina, United States, India, Russia and Germany, which among them, therefore, produce 55_percent of the total gases of winter effect..., why the total practicality of the states of the world accepts to take measures not to exceed the two degrees of jump by 2100. It is in this type of supranational institutions that society as a whole, governments and inclusive political parties, we must fight to continue to advance in the necessary commitments that must be made to all parties and that these can be taxed and set aside through the determined contributions at national level that marked that climate summit. Some contributions that must be even more ambitious and materialize definitively the year coming to Glasgow's summit. In this sense, the European Union has already developed legislation on compliance with the rights of each Member State to issue. And we have seen, moreover, how the European Parliament has declared climate emergence and how the new European Commission has said that through the new European green deal this will be one of its priorities. The Paris agreements say that all the administrations and the citizenry in their conjunction we have to put our grain of sorra there for society's awareness. And maybe that's one of the great novelties on this subject, that there's a great awareness of the problem. According to some data from a recent survey in El País, a 59_percent of the Spanish citizenry thinks that extremely urgent measures are falling, and up to a 90_percent believes that in sufficient urgency. Among these measures there would be broad acceptance that there should be a transition to a renewable energy model. For example, for mobility, the line would be to walk around a model of hybrid vehicles or, later on, completely electric. But what you can't ask is, we understand, a drastic change in a short period of time and that you don't go along with the necessary accompanying measures that make those who have some lower returns in the future the most harmed. A recent report by the RACC already warns that the restrictions on mobility in Barcelona starting in the coming year will have very important consequences for those who only have more covered vehicles, and that the replacement for public transport will be problematic, because there has not been a parallel increase in lines that are already oversaturated, such as the Railway Terrace lines of the Generality or those coming from the Maresme with Rodalias. And here we could also set up the central tram on line 9 of metro, which should connect all the north of Barcelona and which still does not. In this sense, renewable energies and their concrete production here in Catalonia still have a long way to go, as our fellow MEP Alfonso Sánchez explained to the previous intervention. In Catalonia we only have a 2_percent of the total wind farm in all of Spain. And for what it does to photovoltaics, we are clearly behind many other autonomous communities, such as Castella - the Manxa, Andalusia, Extremadura, Castella and Lleó or Múrcia. So we see with concern how we only have a 9_percent of the Catalan energy mix of renewable energies in front of the 18_per_cent that there is in Spain and in front of the 32_per_cent that should be in two years' time, according to the European Union. That's why we hope that this new decree makes it possible to take the path back to a model based on energies that have already seen its production cost down to a great extent and that makes it more cheap to produce electricity with the sun than it does with large gas plants. Or if we think of the wind, therefore, the floating wind, which would be able to supply markets like European or American in a complete way. As I said, therefore, and in the end, the fight against climate change is appropriate and can take place from every possible point of view, but it can be done with rationality, acting locally when this is the most effective, but also acting globally when this is the most effective. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.263.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Unites pour Avançar, it is the return of Mr Jordi Terrades. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.264.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, today we have talked enough about the problem of climate change. I believe that the creation of this committee in the Parliament of Catalonia is a good proposal, which I am convinced will give its fruits. Because, as I gave this morning to Councilman Calvet, for us, the fight against climate change is a priority, that the problem asks us all and everyone, and that it is up to us to find solutions and proposals for the maximum number of shares. We will have to do work... We are convinced that we will have to do work of social concertation, of debate – that this is more necessary than ever – in order to get to these proposals, to this full route that we must take or that we should take to 2050 to intermediate stations where we go absolutely objective. Objects that we can't solve them only by government decrees or by government action, but it has to be... there has to be a social compromise in the past. We believe that a committee of study in the Parliament of Catalonia and of follow-up in the Parliament of Catalonia of this problem will help us to this objective, that I am convinced that it is a shared object, where there will also be an important role the Committee of Experts of Climate Change that we have agreed in this Parliament a few months ago, and that it has, no more or less, to propose to the Government and after the Parliament of Catalonia the assumptions of carbon, that it is nothing other than to define by sectors the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases..., that, taking advantage of the decree that we have validated in the House of Catalonia, that it is nothing other than to define by sectors the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases..., that, having regard to the law that we have adopted in the Chamber of the late part of the session, therefore, we have also objected to setting the objective of the European Court of Justice, that it has been established in the text of the law... The Climate Change Committee, which we have to give and we have to be able to give them tools, to give them instruments and to give them pressure to bring about the work and responsibility that the law and this Parliament has put on them, and which will then be accountable to Parliament and, probably, to this follow-up committee or to the Environment Commission, we will already finish defining this, but what we will have to give..., will have to be held accountable for its work and also assess the work that the Government of Catalonia does. Therefore, from our point of view, we already stated on your day that it seemed to us to be a good proposal. Moreover, let me add..., because this is a subject that we have proposed in previous legislatures and we have not finished coming out of it, but taking advantage of the fact that we have this follow-up committee, probably the policies, as is already the case in other parliaments – I mean, it is not an innovative proposal – we should also be able to start this follow-up committee on generic climate change policies. But beginning to focus on them... – other parliaments are making it, in the conjunction of the European Union, also regional parliaments – to follow energy policies, which will be a key piece of this ecological transformation to our society. When the committee begins to work, our parliamentary group will make a proposal in this respect, which we hope will be well received by the rest of the political forces.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.265.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.266.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillors, Members and Members, we will vote in favour, as it could not otherwise be, of having a parliamentary follow-up committee to the climate emergency situation. And we will, basically, because we believe that it will be useful for all Members, and because this government needs a parliament that a little boosts its political life, that engages it and that forces it to make decisions. Because, until now, we live in an inverse dynamic: a government that its own inaction and its inability to lead political life in Catalonia offends this Parliament and makes it vote fifty times on climate change motions that have already been approved, when it does not place the groups of the Government that fall directly on them, and which is precisely conducive to encouraging this Parliament and making it aware of its political dynamism and the ability to innovate legislatively. And I think that the fight against climate change, precisely because we all have to agree and we have to agree and we also have to share its urgency, is surely one of those issues that we should be able to allow Parliament to be a little more dynamic, to have more legislative initiative and to use bold and innovative measures that the government is undertaking to transform them into public policies. Because we have the feeling that now we have all taken on the importance of climate change and that all public statements speak of climate change, and that it seemed to us to be overinteresting in the COP25 of climate change, and we have all followed it by streaming, but that in Catalonia there are no brave public policies that lead to the central aspects of the fight against climate change. We have experienced in Barcelona the debate of the superillas, we have experienced in Madrid the debate of Madrid Central, in Barcelona the debate of the energetic operator; we have seen from the municipal cities these brave measures that have generated impact in public opinion and generated different public policies, and in Catalonia we have not seen any debate that has implications in the fight against climate change. On the contrary, we are living debates close to twenty years ago: if we make the biggest casino in Europe in Tarragona or the Lower Llobregat, if we split highways and lanes like the C-58 and the C-32, etc. And we believe that Parliament should have this ability to get the government to make good policies. And, basically, we want a follow-up committee for two things – the diagnosis will be important, but I think we can all share it –: first, to innovate in public policies, to have experts helping us to innovate and rethink our public policies in the fight against emissions; in the energy transition of our economy; in the fight against contamination – that there are people who are leading the fight against pollution alone to the different metropolitan areas – ; in the fight for the conservation of biodiversity and the fight for a policy of residue that does not fill the catcher that is still resourceful, and allows us to close the circle of the economy. And we want a follow-up committee also to oversee, because what we don't want is a government that the diluns is at the top of the climate, the Tuesday makes an extension to Barcelona World to build the biggest casino in Europe, the dimecres is unfolding the C-32, the said gives the bait to all the assemblies of this country to which an electrical company is threatening to cut the light to the city that they are in a situation of poor energy unless they have money that they don't want to pose and sell to the climate change committee and explain to us the concern is about the situation of polar os in Antarctica. We believe that it must be a committee that allows us to tax and, moreover, that allows us, like the third objective, to generate public debate on the need to change public policies and on the need to live differently in our country. And I would make a call to try to innovate a little at the time of designing parliamentary commissions. I think we could do that if we were lucky enough to call experts in the field of climate change, we could hardly feel them locked up in a room a divender for the morning, that no one would follow in Catalonia, and I think we would have to be able to innovate, make open commissions, make commissions outside the doors of this Parliament, with social movements, with citizens, with people who have a lifetime fighting against climate change and its effects on the territory. All the more, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.267.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.268.0	Well, thank you, President. It is obvious that we find ourselves at the door of an unprecedented economic and climate crisis in human history. For more than three hundred years, the capitalist planetary expansion, based on the energy base of fossil fuels, has left the fragile global ecological balance. The loss of biodiversity, the increase in global temperatures, the contamination of rivers and oceans or desertion and the loss of fertile soil, among many others, are the most visible consequences of this global ecological and climate crisis. A crisis, however, that does not affect everyone alike. The deterioration of environmental conditions, as well as the increase of extreme or cold waves of sea level or floods, impact more directly on exploited and dispossessed popular classes of the planet. In the face of this crisis, capitalism reacts in appearance proposing green and environmentally responsible policies, an ecological reform to which certain left-wing political projects have also adhered, based on the idea of the Green New Deal with the sole objective of maintaining the relationship that an ecological capitalism is possible. For us capitalism, from ecology, is not reformable either. From our point of view, it is important to articulate a response from ecology, from feminism and from anti-capitalism, around the defense of the life row of the Catalan Countries and the world's row; to continue building sobrieties to combat the capitalist economic and climate crisis and to guarantee the material conditions of life of the popular classes in an ecologically healthy environment. From our point of view it is therefore important that the Climate Emergencies Follow-up Commission pay special attention to the following challenges. Climate change. Object zero emissions, year 2050. Moving forward to a decarbonized model restoring the Climate Change Law of the Parliament of Catalonia, detailed by the Constitutional Court. Disinvestment in the fossil industry. And implement taxes for contaminating businesses. Two: energy sovereignty. Transition to a renewable, popular and decentralized energy model. Retrieve public management of energy production and distribution, secure access and paralyze large energy infrastructure projects. Three: biodiversity. Ensure preservation of the set of ecosystems and species, expand the network of protected spaces and ecological corridors, recover degraded ecosystems and create a bank of resilient species. Four: water. For a public water management, municipalization and integral management of the water cycle ecosystem, restoration of river ecosystems, guarantee the ecological integrity of rivers and halt transvasions between basins. Five: mobility. Public transport collects and does not contaminant. To stop the expansions and new motorways, to implement an interterritorial public transport network of quality, to reduce the rates and to promote the use of the bicycle. Six: food sovereignty. For an eco-friendly and proximity farming model, strengthen local food distribution and eco-consumption networks, preserve agro-biodiversity, abolish transgenics and create a land bank. Set: zero residue. Reduction, reuse and recycling. Municipalize waste management, implement door-to-door collection and deposit, return and return systems, and close waste incineration plants. Save with taxes businesses that generate the most residue. Eight: touristic decline. For a fair, sustainable and community tourism, municipal control of ports and airports, halt the expansions of these infrastructures and develop a plan of decrease and limitation, and suspension of nine tourist places. Well, from our point of view, we also need to bear in mind that international climate conferences, agreements and pacts have not reduced emissions, and temperatures continue to rise, unstoppable. In the Catalan countries, the autonomous governments born in the 78's regime have proved not to be truly useful instruments in the fight against the crisis and the economic and climate. By contrast, they have strengthened the extractive policies, which destroy our territories, to the benefit of the capitalist economic oligarchies, in the State and also in the Catalan Countries. We are ahead of a climate emergency and there is a situation of inopportunity and political inactivity. We hope that this follow-up commission will be a more instrument, a tool for activating a political emergence response before a climate crisis that is unprecedented and cannot be expected, probably starting with a direct follow-up and the taking of urgent measures that required the ecological emergence that took place today in the Montornès fire, which, as we know, is already generating a major crisis in the Besòs ecosystem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.269.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.270.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. I will be brief in this intervention, because this is actually a motion for a resolution to create a committee that was the result of an agreement that we were to adopt in a motion debated in Parliament last October, in which all groups committed themselves, unanimously, to the creation of this Climate Change Follow-up Committee. And, indeed, today we formalize, through this motion for a resolution, today we formalize the creation of this follow-up commission. Follow-up committee which has as its object – and so the resolution proposal says – the follow-up of government action in the field of climate change. I am saying this because I have been given the feeling that this follow-up committee should almost be the government's substitute for action against climate change. No, it's a commission to monitor government action in relation to climate change. That it is something that does not need a specific committee; we have enough parliamentary mechanisms to be able to carry out the follow-up of government action, and also the impulse of government action. But we believe that it is good and necessary that we have a specific commission in relation to climate change, on the one hand, to have, let us say, order all these issues affecting climate change, on the other hand, but also to convey a message that Parliament and all groups together give special relevancy to policies affecting climate change. And I must say, with our differences, that in some cases there are many. Because, of course, I've just felt an intervention that they won't be alienated from if I tell them we don't practically agree on anything. But at least we do agree on the general mark and the fact that decisions are to be made. Some will want them one way, some will want them another way, surely the diagnoses will also be different, but in any case, these will be the themes that we will address in this Climate Change Follow-up Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.271.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Civit has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.272.0	Nice late again. Thank you, President. Welcome to Barcelona, a city that will typically be low-emissions, when it really has to be zero-emissions. And this is the panorama we have right now. I suppose they remember, those movies of the eighty years that talked about the Soviet threat... and logically, the movies, like they did to Hollywood, so the pains were always the communists and there was the threat of Defcon 2, right? , the nuclear threat, and 'warning, that we must remove all armies, because, if not, the Communists will eat. So, of course, here we don't have the communists, the screen of ace has fallen, but we do have the screen of the climate crisis, of the climate emergency. Take care, from Defcon 2 we'll move to Defcon 1. And that's what we've done, there's not going to be an external threat. We've been..., as many as we're here, we'll have made it possible if we don't start doing things. We will start here with the low-emissions area, which should be null and void, we should be in a country and on a one-hundred-and-a-half-cent renewable planet, but all of this, even though we are still aware of it, we have not made the necessary changes to make this transformation, first mentally, and second mentally, the ones we are here, legislatively, and logically as the country and as the government. Yesterday I went precisely to Madrid, to COP25. Now, lately, as you know, some of this wing from here we've been quite often to Madrid; there, as Teo goes to Madrid, Teo goes to the Supreme Court, so Teo goes to COP25. And then, of course, I in court gave me the feeling that I saw a lot of theater, but at COP25 I also had the sad feeling that it was a lot of theater. I hope and wish it wasn't like this. Or, just as we saw what happened to the Supreme Court, I hope that the COP25 agreements are truly ambitious and serve to put us behind all folds as a planetary society, but also above all states. Because we are still aware, in the face of the whole climate crisis – and for this first benefit to congratulate Mr Pep Puig, who was the driving force behind the initiative we are debating here today –..., so we are in a situation where we are putting ingredients in a cocktail pot and when we finish, the combination, to shake it and put it in a drop, I am sure that even among us who are here we will end up enjoying it. And surely the ingredients we have chosen from among all, from fossil fuels. But the combination, then, none of us will drink. We talked about the Ebre Delta, but we could talk about the beaches of the Maresme, we could talk about the River Ter... Why, of course, when you don't lower water for the River Ter, Barcelona and the metropolitan area of where you drink water? We've asked each other, haven't we? So if we don't have water, what should we do? And logically, if there is no water from the water, there will be no bottled water; this we also have. But, of course, if we're talking about this, we can talk about many other situations in which I invite you to come. As you know, soc de l'Espuga de Francolí. I've always said "what's wrong" every time I say "what's wrong," but in this case I invite them to come for something else. I can invite them to the main party, but I could invite them on the 20th of December, which we do a solidarity concert, the Riuada Solidària, for those affected by the care that there was. The people who precisely care... when they think about the planetary emergence, they think that, actually, there will be more, it will be like this, but it will be in more extreme climates. And situations like this, which could pass every hundred years, every fifty years, will pass more periodically. An aid of these characteristics, the past passed twenty-five years ago. Surely, just as things have been, like, given to fifteen years, we'll have more help with the Plugin, but anywhere in the municipalities where you are. To the Skull or to any place in the municipalities where you are there can also pass that some of those who are here viscose in urban areas surrounded by woods: a great fire. So, of course, with all these situations, if we don't start laying the piles like society, we won't get out of it. Fires, even, climate emergencies with climates in which the concept of hurricanes, which everyone associates with certain geographic spaces..., not only will they change from hemispheres, which are already beginning to do so, but we will see them not only in the Atlantic of Europe, which are already arriving, but also in the Mediterranean area. And we have it present. That is why we are beginning to make all the legislative changes in this committee, and in all of them, to make this transformation possible; that in some parts it will be adaptation, but in others we will have to change our ways of conduct and of acting. He was talking about the Snack, but to make it clear: a hundred and a thousand people in Catalonia, in their own two years, may be patenting these effects of these floods; a hundred and a thousand people, it is said, and a hundred and a thousand people some of whom may be here. Let's start doing it now, let's start changing all the ways of doing it, let's start changing everything, let's start from Parliament, let's start from home. Some have already started it precisely today New Years ago: the Som Energia energy cooperative. I take this opportunity to congratulate you. These are the models we need. We all have to. Here we have come to talk, but above all, let us stop playing all the folds and follow the protagonists of this transformation. And I'm taking advantage of it to close the intervention. Yesterday I went to Madrid, as you know. I hope it wasn't my visit to the fact that you allowed the mayor of Madrid to say that the ends of ETA and the ends of my party are the same. Because, if that's the case, I apologize to the mayor of Madrid, and I'm not sorry, that I'm not going to make it any more, while we're not independent. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.273.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, it's the turn of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The word has the deputy Josep Puig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.274.0	Thank you, President; members of the Government, members of this Parliament, go ahead with my thanks to all the spokespersons of the parliamentary groups who have made it possible for this committee to be brought forward, which we will vote on today. Now that we're starting to see climate-emergency statements all over the place, we can ask ourselves what we're talking about. He gave it to the previous speaker in the plenary, to the previous plenary. The World Meteorological Organization has just released the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere we have, the highest ever in many years. Also the program of the Environmental United Nations, in the Gap Emissions report, said that, if we want to honour the Paris agreements, we have to reduce the emissions by 7.6_per_cent, annually, the next decade. Let me, therefore, remember how we got here. We have arrived because our society has been addicted to the cream of fossil materials to provide energy and all sectors of our society need energy. Allow me, therefore, to recall five groups of actors who have helped us get here. A first, people who start to warn us of the problem. Maybe they don't know that 163 years ago a woman, Eunice Newton, scientist, presented a paper to the annual meeting of the American Thought Society of Science, where we were already warned of the relationship between CO2 and the Earth's temperature. He could not read this paper, because, at that time, the women were not allowed to go to scientific meetings. But, like her, other scientists, John Tyndall, Arrhenius, etc., went to warn us of the problems that existed. No one's ever heard of it. A_second group of actors, international conferences. President Johnson's advisors to the U.S. have already told us in the sixties. There was the first climate conference in '79, 40 years ago. The 88th, there was the conference in Toronto on atmospheric changes, where it was already agreed the need to make a planetary pact to address the problem. There have been more lectures. The United Nations, at the end of the last century, began to take part in the assumption. The year 88, first dealt with climate change, created the famous group of climate change experts, who have so far made five reports – 90, 95, 2001, 2007, 2013 and 14 – and are now preparing the earthquake. And we arrive at the year 90, where we agree to create the convenient climate change mark, which, at the Rio conference, is placed on the table to sign it. Today, 196 states are part of this agreement that the aim is to stabilize concentrations of winter-effect gases so as to prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference. It is worth saying that in the past five years we are carrying follow-up conferences of this agreement, the conferences of the parties, therefore, not only have we not stabilized them, but we have increased them. So we have a problem. And I also want to remember, here, the world of science. Already in the year 92, the Union of Concerned Scientists, with its own Cambridge, published the first warning to humanity, with 1,700 signatures and many Nobel prizes signing it. Twenty-five years later, a group of scientists looked back and evaluated what had happened and was very disheartening and very distressing what they found, humanity has not advanced in the resolution of the originally documented reps, quite the contrary, things have gone worse. They created the Alliance of Scientists and made a second news, which followed this very year for a third on climate change, saying that scientists have the moral duty to clearly warn the humanity of any catastrophic threat. And, finally, I want to remember civil society. In Catalonia, in a long time, there have been people and collectors who have been making alarms about the climate and environmental crisis, I myself have not been an active part of some. But now, just a year ago, the collection Extinction Rebellion was born in Barcelona, to the image of what it was acting from the late time to the United Kingdom, and also to our home have begun to appear the collections Fridays for Future, which require us to take urgent action. Even though it is late, Catalan society is beginning to wake up and emerge from the mirage of consumerist productivityism and is beginning to demand measures. It is obvious that we will only reduce them if we stop cremating fossil fuels to provide energy. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , energy – I finish, president – that we serve all sectors of society. And, from this Parliament, we must put all our forces in order to make it possible for the country to be able to take on the climate challenge that we have in front of us. I wish that the commission we believe today is at the height of the rear. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.275.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, we'll vote on this proposal for a resolution to create a climate-emergency monitoring committee. I understand that there is no separate motion for a vote. We therefore vote in favour of the joint motion. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution was adopted by 122 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Procedure for electing a member of the Democratic Memorial Board of Governors]] [[284-00008/12]] And let's now move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the Procedure for electing a member of the Democratic Memorial Board of Governors, according to Law 13/2007, of October 31st, of the Democratic Memorial. Given the resignation of Algeria Queralt, we will proceed to the appointment of a member of the Board of Governors of the Memorial. The candidate proposed for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, which was proposed by Mrs. Queralt, is, in this case, Mr. Xavier Menéndez and Pablo. Can the proposal be approved for lack of approval? Yeah? All right. So, we approve for assent this proposal by Mr. Xavier Menéndez and Mr. Pablo as a member of the Democratic Memorial Board of Governors. [[Inquiries to the Government on the Future]] [[300-00209/12]] And let's move on to the next item on the agenda, therefore, to the question to the Government on the Agenda, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, to expose it, has the words of Mr Pol Gilbert. When he wants to. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.276.0	Thank you, Vice President. The latest news on the evolution of the occupation, in which there have been five months of growth of the city, as well as the different regulatory issues that the newspapers have occupied have motivated our concern, the concern of this group before these data. We are not in front of the facts of the time to be alarmed, but we do see signs that we need to address, above all, because we are concerned about what we are doing, what the government is doing to deal with the disappearance of certain industries and services that they see in our country, and do so in better and more guarantees than in the past few years. And today we take advantage of the case of Ryanair, Girona, a case which, today, we have known to the news, in which we see– and we have serious doubts that it has agreed with the legal procedure– contracts which have been agreed with coercion, as at least, let us say, and which affect the various workers who have seen their old age renounced, which have seen stable contracts which go to discontinuity or which have seen a 25_per_cent drop in their sum. This is not the model we want for our country; we want to have low-cost companies, yes, but not low-cost workers. A company that pays millions of euros in public aid cannot do this with workers in this country, and even less a government can sell it as a triumph of all folds. But going back to the end and focusing on accompanying the stops that we have in this country and when they're going through worse, which is when they're in the middle of the day, to help the workers make a transition that can be an opportunity or a drama as they stand. And what we have in this environment is not positive, we don't have good news. I will give you an example, an example that Parliament knows well. The SOC offices, the OTGs. If we look, today, the numbers that the council gives us, are today worse than 2010. We have 17 offices that hold more than 1,000 attitudes for each technician that reach them, 1_of_each_4 SOC offices, in extreme cases like the Mar Prize, that have more than 1,700 attitudes for each of its three technicians or, the Móra d'Ebre, that have a technical_soil that reaches more than 1,600 attitudes. In 2016, we lived in this Parliament the rise of directors of work offices for lack of staff and resources. They had the cry to the cell and you, counselor, were witnesses to it, because, then, he was Labour's spokesman to the commission. At that time, three years ago, do you know how many offices there were with more than a thousand stops for every technician? Four. Now, we've told you. You know as well as I do that personalized attention is key to being able to succeed in reinserting a person who is stuck. If at a time of economic recovery we are unable to properly provide an essential service such as SOC, what can we expect if the economy loses strength? If personalized attention is a truncated element to achieve success in looking for a new job, why do we have the ratios that I have just explained? The ILO states that the appropriate proportion must be 85 for each technician, 85, 1,000 and 1,700. Calen resources, to reorganize the service and to keep the staff sufficient. Not addressing these issues is continuing to degrade a service that is already insufficient and can end up feeling the last resorts of those who have no more recourses. A next issue that also concerns us is the situation that we see from ERO in different businesses in the territory. Some unions calculate that every month we find ourselves with the announcement of a large company that is closing. General Cable, Huayi, Continental are only an exhibition of lost jobs and qualified industry places and which we are patenting in the past month or in fifteen days. Historical factories that see their doors closed and this situation is intensifying in a key sector such as that of car components, which is the key to a tractor industry in Catalonia, such as car. But the sectors affected are much more, we find chemicals, food industry... And the question is: "What actions has the Government planned to ensure the current and future industry? I asked him, counselor, recently, in a parliamentary control session, and his answer was abstract: "We will try to have more time today and have a more accurate answer. And, besides, I know, counselor, that these actions fall on the horse between his consultancy and that of Industry, surely, however, as I know the good coordination between the two departments, I am sure that they can answer me jointly. Because we detect, and so we are told by different collections involved, a passive attitude before the industrial crisis that we are patenting. We understand that the government cannot do everything, we are perfectly aware, but we also understand that the government should be less responsive and more proactive. That is why we believe that it is necessary to push forward the industrial pact and strengthen an economic sector that creates stable and quality jobs, and to do so, the government's will is essential. And, as the government seems not to be in the pocket, we find ourselves with some territories, as is the case in the West Valley, pushing plans for reindustrialization and occupation of the hands of mayors, economic and social agents. Before the inaction of some, the action of the local world. And I came up with this inaction with an initiative that is one of the symbols of its management or not, and it will allow me the chamber that I repeat to me, but while the local world tries to join together to combat the situation that the industry has seen, we still have pending and leaving a FP center of the automotive. And, in the last chapter of this series that lasts too many years, we've seen how a bid has been deserted. And, to our surprise, to the last Commission of Work, we listened as the director of the SOC, manager of the head office, it is justified that the departures from the bidding were correct. I don't think they were right. It would only be necessary that, with the time we wait, you leave the fessin' them still badly. In any case, the question, counselor, is: after declaring yourself to be a desert contest, do you think of taking out the new bid or doing a direct management? Do they have a date or will they put the center on the march when it's too late? You know perfectly well that the world of work has seen profound and very rapid changes, and elements like these centers must allow you to follow the pace of this evolution. The technological change, the measures against climate change or globalisation, all these phenomena are given at the same time and in the same place, and our ability to adapt will define whether they are an opportunity or a threat to drawings of people who see themselves affected. This is how I put back a recent document entitled "The world of work ahead of the climate challenge, recently published for the Barcelona Parliament together with the unions. The answer we give to it may or may not fuel the frustration on the part of the working class, tempered by the extreme right with demagogic speeches. And we play a lot more than a return to the economy. We are not talking about having a new factory or a new investment; we are talking about being at the forefront of the new economy. And not being-there's no alternative. A few days ago we saw an article explaining the movements of different autonomous governments to get a factory of electric drums, a theme for the future of the automotive industry, and for which we see a battle at European level. The surprise of this Member was read in the chronicle that Catalonia, with its powerful automotive sector, did not appear as a competing region to join this batting centre. It can't be, counselor; it can't be that we see like Aragó or the Valencian country pass by our hands while we're still in front of these opportunities. It's in your government's hands that this transformation doesn't create more inequality. Sure we're late, sure, but we can choose to see how the train passes or to run to get there. Surely, running to get there means saying different things; for our group it means saying some of these: it means putting a recycling plan on the market for the sectors that can suffer the most from this transformation; it means putting in the market once and for all the professional accreditation actions that reverse the FP law; it means providing the SOC with sufficient resources to accompany the people that the transition brings them through unemployment, and above all it means not having a pioneering training centre that doesn't work. And to do all this, there is a forum, a _marc that our parliamentarian put on the march three years ago – he proposed it, better said; putting on the march could not be due to the lack of action of the government –, a forum that is called the pact for work. You must surely remember that three years ago in this chamber our chairman of the parliamentary group proposed to the President, then Puigdemont, and to the Councillor of Work a pact to approach..., a pact for work to distribute the wealth that is generated and growth and to address the challenges of the future; a pact similar to that which is then done to Emilia-Romanya, Italy, or the Balearic Islands; a solution, as I said, to better distribute economic growth and to address the transformation that the labour market has seen. This proposal was approved for this plenary and accepted for President Puigdemont and Councillor Bassa. Three years later, as I said, we didn't see any call or interest to talk about it. I am sure, counselor, that I can count on the willingness of opposition groups to address this issue. We give you the forum, you have the table to talk about it, you have the agents to talk about it; what's needed is for you to get to work now too. We can't afford more opportunities: while we spend energy on putting a table to talk, the rest have risen and are working in the day-to-day. And we don't have to do this either for you or for me, or to do politics on this issue for sure; it's a topic that goes much further: this country has to decide what it wants to be, what it wants to be in the next few years, what we do with our workers who can stay on the road. We can't stay inactive before that. I ask you, Counselor, that you are put to work and that you give us answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.277.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. To answer the question, the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Chakir El Homrani, now has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.278.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, deputies and deputies who endure the Ple at these hours... who are few, are heroes and heroes. Deputy Gibert, he has placed various themes; we go by order and we are situating. He told me about the news that appears around the agreement that appears to have been signed in the matter of... in the Ryanair situation. We are hoping to be able to assess it, because you know that a regulatory dispatcher, when he is present in various territories of the Spanish State, does not have the guardianship and follow-up on the part of the department; the guardianship and follow-up is on the part of the ministry. We have asked for all the information; if there is any element that is not legal, it will be done. And I'm sure the workers' representatives... or the workers and workers will consider taking all the decisions. And if I don't fail the memory – and now there's Councilman Calvet – I think that Councilman Calvet's clear statement is that if it's an agreement that doesn't stifle working conditions, it's good news, and he talked about working conditions. I think we should be honest at the time of planting it. From here, I also take advantage of this line to make a reflection around an area that you know I will reflect on you, that we have not spoken on many occasions, but that I think it's close to doing it, because from time to time we have to look at the Mirall and at all of us it's time to lighten up at some point. But it's just... I was talking about Ryanair, I was talking about the regulatory expedients. I believe that you agree with me that we have a standard problem and that either you address it to the standard problem or you will continue to give yourself these situations, that you are giving yourself the increments of regulatory expedients especially in the industrial sphere – that you are so concerned about it, that I am very concerned about it – and they have not been for economic reasons, they have been for organizational reasons and for other reasons, but not because companies are not generating benefits. And this responds to a regulation that allows that, at a time when in these last few months there has been and there has been a ‘ gradual decrease in the ability to lower the attunement, at a time when there are uncertainties from the orange battle that is in the world, from the symptoms of the German economy – our economy is an export economy that sees a lot of this situation – from Brexit, there are conservative policies, and making a regulation expedition to the Spanish State is free. And we have been listening so many years to repeal, to "repeat, to "repeat, and nothing has happened... And I think they ask him, and they ask him very honestly, that we approach him at once. It can't be. Every more time – every more time – and every time we're in this situation. And I think it's very important that we deal with this situation somehow, because I think you won't deny me that there are job regulation dispatches on the table that only explain why there are no work-related counter-reforms. And someone had promised and didn't execute them. And I think it's close to doing it; it's close to doing it because we lose capacity. Many of these regulatory issuers are companies in which the decision-making branch is not located in the country and which, if they do an analysis, see that making a regulatory issuer in the Spanish State has no costs, it does not have to be economically justified. And that's a drama – and that's a drama. Let's work it together, because if we don't, we'll continue to expand this situation. And I think we need to be very honest: there's a part that needs standard changes, and urgent standard changes, because, if not, every regulatory shipment is bad news, with names and surnames of people, workers and workers, and their families. From here, how do we work? I think you are aware: an exercise that is close to us is to give the maximum support at the time of the mediation processes. He knows that in a regulatory expedient we always find a work inspector or a work inspector who does these mediation exercises when it seems that there may be agreement. And what's more important, act previously and later. Previa: avoid situations. Here there is a direct coordination with the Business Council. And especially around the industrial fabric, which I think right now is the concern we all have. And later: around, beyond that regulatory dispatch, being able to have good reindustrialisation plans because people are not out of the labour market; reindustrialisation in a sense of economic fabric. And also absolutely necessary, elements of active employment policies, retraining of workers and workers and opportunities. You stated: "Active employment policies. I can explain to you the active employment policies that we have been generating, as we have been focusing on the most vulnerable groups, such as through SOC we have an investment of 330_million euros, as with other occupational programmes we have added an investment of 406_million euros plus, 282 to support the insertion into the labour market, 105 on disability issues – also part of the active employment policies – promoting the social economy and self-employment... We can talk about many elements. I think there are various data that are interesting and where we need to deepen the work: one, training and professional qualification. And you put it in a very concrete example; I put it there. In training and professional qualification we have increased, the number of persons benefiting from the professional training carried out by the SOC, which is the field..., the competence is around the occupational training. We are talking about a 12,24_per_cent increase in the number of persons benefiting from vocational training. I think it's a good date, in a year, an increment of this 12,24_per_cent. The development of standard and management instruments to consolidate territorial concertation is becoming more complex. You were telling me about the work you're a fan of locals. Our bet is clear, and I think the bet is so clear that a pending assignment that was about the deployment of the SOC Law we approached, and we've followed the government that is proceeding with the territorial concertation decree. And we're very clear. And it's in this market where we have to work; we have to work with this ability, because we also don't do good active employment policies in the territory, linked to the territory, with the industrial fabric of the territory, with the business fabric of the territory, with the social fabric of the territory, but also allows us to have mechanisms to detect possible problems with time forecast. And it's our bet. We think we have to do something about this. Strictly. We are also aware– and we are very clear–, there is no strategy if it is not agreed for everyone: for locals, for social workers and for economic agents. And here everyone has to make the effort to have this lowest denominator. And from here work it together. And we will continue to work there, because we work offices understand them from an ecosystem that is global, because we also finance largely the economic promotions of municipal institutions. And we're very clear. And we want to give it more clean. For this reason, we place in the decree a program contract. Now, here we also have to overcome certain models, because you ask me for responsibility, and I assume it, all you need. But we cannot talk about active employment policies without being aware that this year the sectoral conference to be held in April was held in July. Do you think that's how active employment policies can be done, with this leftover? From April to July 30, when it was done. It's not reasonable. And that affected Catalonia, but it affected other territories of the State. We can't afford this leaven. And it's important. And respect how we stand and how we improve, here too there is another duet pending. And this has been discussed in the area of the sectoral conference. And if you have the actions, you must know that we are especially leading this environment and breaking this dynamic of temporary orientation programs. Three years. Great precariousness. Either we change the system or we don't get out. You don't feel it. And there has to be a bet on that. We in the territorial concertation decree place the bet and talk about the program contract and four years ago. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] The same model we have on social services. Do it. And respect Martorell's training center, how I've spent time, in the replica...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.279.0	Yes, I'm out of it, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.280.0	I'll explain it to you with absolute peace of mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.281.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, now the word Pol Gibert has again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.282.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, you have made me a full-fledged Torra; he said: "First I answer what I want, and then, already, if one case, the second comes back already I will make it serve to answer what you ask me. It's a practice that we're adopting as government and that's innovative, isn't it? But let's say it, it seems that we agree on a point in common, at least on a point: that a government of left to the rest of the State, because without this government of left it will be impossible to address many of the issues that you raise here, that we can share and that we are sure to agree, for which we also encourage you to do so, let's say it. And how you also said that it's complicated to come here and not put yourself in the red with some things that every man does, man, also forces me to almost remind him of some of his sins, right? I'm sure. And you obviously are talking about legislative changes that require a majority of Parliaments, aren't you? , and you know perfectly well that repealing labor reforms certainly requires a majority of Parliamentarians, like any normalized change. And here too I could thank him for his help, let's say, to his travel companions, the Lords of Junts for Catalonia, who obviously also have people in Madrid and who could be added 'here that, as you know, let's say, are the preferred allies to change this type of labor reform. Everything's getting better in its environment, isn't it? As I said, you're addressing a problem that is certainly enormous, the transformation that we're living in our economy, since it's a magnitude that we don't know yet, and you're trying to address it with classic occupational programs, let's just say, right? And I'm sure SOC professionals are making the most of trying to approach it in an innovative way; but I think we're talking about different magnitudes. We are ahead of a transformation, as I said, of globalisation, of technological change, of climate change, which requires something more than addressing it in an integral and classic way. It certainly requires a country effort. And that's why he put on the table a model, a place to talk to, to which you didn't refer, and I remember: the Pact for Work approved for this Parliament. I think it's a good place to push these types of initiatives, talk about it and agree on common policies. You also have the subject of Ryanair, which, let's say, I have not been able to study in depth, but regardless of how the detail ends, we would agree that the model we want for our country is not this, it is not a model in which the radicality of a company like this, at an airport like Girona, depends on a drop in this type of working conditions. We will obviously agree that the old-fashioned, lost-of-its-self losses are not the way to encourage the sector. The government is very busy saying that we do not want a low-cost tourism, that we want to increase the quality, increase the services we provide like the country, but, in change, the model that we are applying is the other way around. And, as I said, it's twice as hard, when this model is publicly encouraged, with which, so, here we have to reflect all the folds of why we're doing this. I remind you that you, let's face it, have not dealt and that I would like you to address it with your reflection. I remember it: SOC thanks, very high, higher than 2010. To what is this loss of effect? What's with this very high rate? I ask you to plant me here before a plan to reduce this rate at least. I'm not telling you that two years from now, we've got the ILO-asked ration, but at least we have an absorbable one, which can give an accurate service. Because if we have this deal now, and they see the precedent that passed through 2000 with the economic crisis, what would happen if there was a crisis tomorrow? There would probably be detail in the services, fewer resources and a higher rate. If it didn't go well the other time with more professionals, will it go well this time with fewer professionals, as I gave it to you? In any case, counselor, I believe that we are faced with a problem of great magnitude, as we have said, for which a joint reflection is necessary. I am convinced, as I said before, that the opposition on this subject, therefore, can accompany it, with which I invite you to put on the table proposals of better to address with an integral plan the situation that the industry has seen, and also other servants of our country. We're not talking about anything. It's very good to go to COP, it's very good to see the future of the work model and to do a lot of books on this subject, but we need to put a thread to the needle. We're losing opportunities, other countries aren't doing it, we're going through our hands. These days, as I was saying, we saw how Europe is struggling to set up a pioneering factory, a research center on electrical drums, and here we are not doing this kind of policy. With which I ask you, as I said before, not for us, but for the future of the workers of this country, that you are put to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.283.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, the counselor now has the word, again, for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.284.0	Congressman, with great esteem, I think his subconscious has betrayed him. He told me to shut up a government of leftovers in the state. I suppose the government that's been ruling in the last year and escaig was not left-handed. I get it that way. [[Greetings.]] I think the subconscious betrayed him. But, well, you say, "From here, let each one do his or her own worth. With labor reform, I've been telling you from this time on, I don't know how many times – still sometimes, as Constellera Capella says – the proposal, and that everyone is portrayed voting. They didn't do it – they didn't do it, they didn't do it. But, well, how do you tell me that I haven't been concrete in terms of employment policies... Isn't it concrete to talk about territorial concertation, which is the great assignature hanging in active occupation policies? Isn't it concrete to develop this pending assignment? Is it not concrete to talk about the environment that can now be given and actually taken over by workers and workers in a changing labour market and that will change even more, that is to have a good professional qualification and tools to requalify in the long run of life? There's no other one. And if that's not concrete, I don't know what we're talking about. Even so, he told me about Ryanair and the model... Because, of course, when I said to him, "No, it's that this freight forwarder brought him to the ministry. - Ah, well, he's not the model. And I was lucky enough to keep Councilman Calvet on the side, because these things I don't control, but Councilman Calvet..., and he says to me: "Home, collect AENA's taxes, which is what generates a precarious model around all airports, etc. Say: "Well, look..., I had the lot..., I don't know this place, I say to myself, say: "Well, perfect. From here, let's talk about it. I, when I was talking about territorial concertation and I was talking about the model of active employment policies for this government – and I think it's the reason, because we finance a lot of it, and because we think that we have to do it, in a bet around the relationship and the capillary, and the co-management and co-responsibility with locals – it has to be global and that, for me, it forms part of the public employment system... The SOC's work offices, in the same way that they form part of the public employment system..., the municipal enterprises or municipal services, the employment regions, the economic promotion, because they form part..., because we have to weave, and it's in this environment that we all believe that we have global power. And I don't want to leave things, because, if I don't..., you put so many fears to me, and at the end you say to me, "He hasn't answered me, and I don't want to leave some things. In said: « centre de formation de Martorell. Very quiet: we are the government [[Funnel veils]] ... No, no, with a lot of peace and quiet – with a lot of peace and quiet – we are the government that we have broken down the governance system of the center of Martorell. We've done the bidding process, it's been empty, and now we're looking at whether we're going to take the leaves again, with some modification, or whether we're doing our own thing. And we are doing it, not the Department of Work – which I could do, because in the end the center..., SOC key –, but together: with the Department of Education, with the Department of Enterprise... Why? Because we believe in this integrality. We also made it very clear: the departures respond to a model, agreed in this Parliament for parliamentary groups, because it has to be, which is based on the model of the Law of Professional Formation of Catalonia. Of course, if we made a few departures not linked to this model, we certainly had a lot of bidders, but we lacked respect for the legislators, who are you. And we're going to follow it around, because we think it's the way, and we're going to do it – and we're going to do it – and we're going to get out of it. And so we say: we are the government that we have unblocked an element that was clau, that was the one that did not allow to move forward, that was the system of governance. From here, as we are very clear that in active employment policies right now the key element is professional qualifications and tools for re-qualification in a changing labour market, the reversal in this. When I said, "You've grown up 12 percent more people who've passed through the vocational training system, the competence of this department, that's great news, that's an example. More: almost 40_percent of people who participate in SOC programs end up working; I think it's a good example. The example that we've been doing is reducing the long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived, long-lived-lived, long-lived, And I'll go hand in hand with you. And you put me in the work pact. We'll analyze it, and any kind of concertation... and they know that in this area, as a matter of fact...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.285.0	You're out of here, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.286.0	...this counselor... – yes, I'm finished – at the Department of Labour he is incorporated, with social and economic agents. We'll work and analyze it with all the taste and, if it's a good tool, we'll share it, and so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.287.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Inquiries to the Government on Housing]] [[300-00211/12]] We then move on to the agenda item, which is the question to the Government on housing, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose the inquiry has the words of the deputy Sergio Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.288.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, the first thing I would like to do is add myself to the show of rebuff and condemnation of the political violence that the young people of ‘It's over! The Democrats of 'It's over! Today they have been attacked, for a habitual political violence, which is a separatist political violence, but which, in any case, like any show of violence, always deserves its rebroadcast, and I hope that the counselor can also take advantage at this time to join these rebroadcasts, which are especially important. Let's talk about housing now. Let's talk about housing; housing, which continues to be a big problem for thousands of citizens in Catalonia, thousands of citizens who have difficulty paying rents, to access housing, and that this problem causes them problems of equal opportunities and of all kinds. And, as the Generalitat is the competent administration, we have thought to ask you, counselor. And let's start by reviewing some indicators that will allow us to know the situation we are in. Data from the National Institute of Statistics show that Catalonia leads the autonomous rankings of foreclosures for every 100_ thousand inhabitants. And I'm gonna show you a chart. Look, this graph. [[the timer the show]] , obtained from the National Institute of Statistics, indicates that from 2014 to 2017 the number of mortgage executions in Catalonia were descending, were fewer and fewer. But from the third quarter, until the last quarter of the same year, they have multiplied by more than four. This chart also shows us other things, doesn't it? ; for example, what happened from the third quarter of 2017. Well, that was the time when you decided to skip the Constitution. But it is that, from the third quarter of 2018 to the third quarter of 2019, here you were already Territori's advisor; these data are the data of your management. If we look at this same chart – you can consult it at the National Institute of Statistics – in Andalusia or Madrid, they would see how this slope is continuous and there have been fewer and fewer mortgage executions. So, well, this is one of the things that tells us something's failing. But let's also see what happens to evictions for rent unpaid. I'm going to show you a map of Spain, I hope no one gets hives or any of these. [[the timer the show]] ..., but you will be able to see the different autonomous communities, and also, again, Catalonia is the autonomous community that has the most intense color of all the regions of Spain. This means that in Catalonia we also lead the evictions for every thousand inhabitants, from all over Spain. And this tells us that your government, councillor, gets the worst results from all of Spain, your government gets worse results than the rest of autonomic governments. So the first thing I want to ask you, counselor, is precisely that: have you analysed why the result of your management is worse than that of the rest of the autonomous communities? In our view, the main difference is that your government, Honourable Mr. Calvet, is not dedicated to improving the living conditions of citizens, they are dedicated to something else: they are dedicated to feeding the political propaganda of an exclusive project, of a divisive nature, which causes the economic, cultural and social decline of Catalonia. And this statement I say after having been reviewing the Generalitat's programme budget implementation states, where we can see that the media spend more resources than housing policies. And not only that: we can also observe how housing policies cut from 2017 to 2018, while in the same period, media spending increases. So the second thing I want to ask you is how you feel that your Government allocates more resources to the media than to housing programmes, and that, in addition, while they cut in housing, they increase that expenditure on the media. Of course, it seems to us a shame, a shame and a lack of respect for the thousands of families and thousands of people who apply for protected housing in Catalonia. But let's also make another comparison; let's see how many resources, how much money the rest of the autonomous communities invest, and how much Catalonia invests in the total budget of the community. Well, here, this graph. [[the timer the show]] I have already taught you some time in some motion for a resolution, but here you can also see that Catalonia allocates half of what the rest of the autonomous communities spend on housing policies on average. Of course, this, together with the fact that we are the autonomous community with the most evictions, because, of course, something is wrong. That is, if we have a special housing problem in Catalonia, we may have to invest more than in the rest of the autonomous communities. No, we reversed the average. And it's a shame, counselor, this is a shame, and because of this shame Catalonia has a social housing park proportionally inferior to the rest of the communities, and that means less capacity to contain the price of housing, less capacity to meet social needs, and less capacity to facilitate access to housing. And these are the management data that you do, and this must be known to the citizens of Catalonia. You do it worse than your counterparts in other communities, and this must be repeated: you do it worse than the governments of other autonomous communities. And I ask you: what are you going to do? Because, of course, we have another problem, and it is that his Government does not like to manage an autonomous community; that is why they do not, that is why the citizens of Catalonia are worse served by their autonomous government than those of other regions. But neither do they like this Parliament, they like the assembly that elected office, but this Parliament, no. They ignore, for example, the resolutions adopted here, such as Resolution 96/XII, adopted in October 2018, on the proposal of Ciutadans, so that the Incasòl stops selling residential public land and targets it for public housing, not to make cash. Well, a year later, they continued to sell public land: the sector of Levante de Viladecans, in San Adrian del Besós. Counselor, do we agree that Catalonia needs to increase its public housing park? I say this because if we agree..., and the third question I am going to ask you is what your Government intends to do to comply with that resolution adopted by the Parliament of Catalonia, will it comply with it or will it continue to fail to comply with it as it has so far? For my parliamentary group, housing policies are fundamental to the state of well-being, such as health, such as education. I imagine you will say that for you too, but that statement requires commitments, and seeing the Generalitat budget we have already seen what you are committed to. But I would like to remind you that on 11 July, the majority of Members of this House urged their Government to devote 1,000 million euros a year to housing policies for ten years; this is something that we have proposed since Ciutadans on more than five occasions since I joined this House as a Member. So the fourth question I wanted to ask you is precisely that: do you undertake, Mr Councillor, that the next budget of the Generalitat will incorporate these amounts into housing programmes or will they continue to say that they are very concerned about housing but will they continue to invest half the average of what the autonomous communities invest? Because, look, your Government will be able to say that long ago to solve the housing problem, but there are the results and there are the budget implementation data. And what one concludes is that they don't take it seriously. But if you invest less in housing policies than in the media, and that, counselor, is to put aside the people who most need support from your administration. And I'm going to give you a concrete example of those citizens. Do you know the public housing on Victoria Kent Street in Hospitalet, Mr. Counsellor? Two years ago, on Ciutadans' proposal, his neighbors appeared in committee to explain to us the problems they had with a group of criminals dedicated to illegal occupation. Until they came here they were unattended; neglected by a government that does not deal with citizens and has other priorities. And yesterday what I did was call them back, write them back, and things still don't go well. Look, I'm gonna read you the answer I was sent by WhatsApp the same neighbor who showed up here two years ago. "For weeks the elevators have been failing every day, it seems that the Habitatge Agency has reduced the contracted power and that makes them fail. We have been most of the year without cleaning service, because the tenders are for a short time and between bidding and bidding pass the months. Since February, there's been an empty floor, with an armored door. I spoke to the city council and they told me that it was awarded but that Habitatge had to hand it over. There is also another empty floor that was from a neighbor who was dead on the floor for a month; it took more than three months to come and clean it up. And we've had cockroaches and bugs all summer long. In September, there were new attempts at occupation. There's no light in my window and they don't change it anymore. The truth is that it is regrettable and, moreover, it highlights another issue, which is that the little housing park that you have does not manage it well. So to finish this first intervention I'm going to ask you a fifth and final question: how are you assessing the quality of maintenance and the safety of users of public housing? In our view, and knowing examples such as the one I have just outlined, they are not responding to these incidences in an agile manner and should improve management. I would ask you, Counselor, to answer the five questions I have asked you, so that we can continue to discuss this issue which is so fundamental to the well-being of citizens. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.289.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then, to answer the question, the advisor of Territories and Sustainability, Damià Calvet, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.290.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs... Mr. MP, Mr. Sanz, the truth is that I had been deluded by your inquiry. When it was announced that Ciutadans asked me an inquiry about housing I thought: "Look, we will touch things, therefore, concrete, that are for the benefit of the citizens, the real Catalonia, and after the inquiry will come a motion and we can, finally, delve into some topic that is of real interest, won't we? , of the citizens, of the municipalities, of the country. But, gee, the illusion, say, lasted a long time, huh? It's been a long time since you've tried to tell us that we're missing the Constitution, that I'm angry because..., or that I can get irritated because I'm being taught the map of Spain, or that we're falling apart, or that I'm more into the Assembly of Elected Carrecs than anything else. So, what do you want me to say? , you ask about housing the use to talk about what they like, to talk about the process and to talk about the monotheme, but its monotheme, not ours, its monotheme. You have suffocated your inquiry into underlying political demands on your monotheme. So, what do you want me to say? We'll debate here a little bit and then we'll see the young lady, and once we see the young lady, we'll see how we keep working. But in any case extreme disappointment around his attempt at political manipulation by talking about housing themes barring with a multitude of themes that are not housing, intent on absolute political manipulation. Indeed, the Government of the Generality is competent in terms of soil and habitat, fully competent, fortunately competent. In which it is not competent in the economic distribution that makes the State of the fiscal deficit and of which are the endowments for the housing programs. Because I don't know if I know that, despite being competent in soil and habitat, the economic endowment to make soil policies and habitat comes from the State. And that's a long time ago, huh? It's true that they complement, obviously, with propitious assumptions – and now I'm going to talk about our assumptions – but I'd like their group, here and in Madrid, even though they reduce, so, what they want..., to defend, huh? , the interest of the citizens of Catalonia, is to demand more money from these famous state housing plans, which for a few years have disappeared, which after many years have gone by, which do not incorporate sources of efficiency and which condition us, which condition us a lot, very much, in the execution of these powers, not only the economic quantity, but also sometimes the programs, in other words, to which these moneys are to be allocated, eh? It's a complaint I've often made. We are not only concerned about the issue of housing, but we have become one of our priorities, one of the priorities of the Department of Lands and Sustainability, which is competent in the matter of housing through the Urban Housing Secretariat and through another instrument, the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia, which is therefore a magnificent instrument – I have to say that it was an invention of the tripartite, which brought together in a single instrument what was the former Adigsa and the General Directorate of Habitatage, but in any case it is an instrument that we have perfected. And, effectively, through this concern and this occupation, we manage day by day, we manage the modernizing agenda that must also govern public housing, and obviously we do not give up anything. And not to give up on the fact that effectively, therefore, we will try not only to dispose of the full legislative powers in terms of soil and habitat, but also of the full economic capacity that the same country generates in order to be able to develop them. You've said some things that aren't true, have you? He said, first, let's retaliate in presupposition. About what? Aviam, we are on extended assumption since 2017 – we are on extended assumption since 2017 – so, 2018, there was no detail possible – there was no detail possible. And the assumption of the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia, which is indeed updating, therefore, the assumption sun is 280_million euros. I'm afraid that when you look at the assumption that the Generalitat is destined to habitat you only look at what is the strict assumption of the department, which has a part of it, but oblivious to look at the main assumption, which is that of the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia. You also said that we have a smaller park than certain autonomous communities. That's fake. We do not have a park inferior to certain autonomous communities, nor much less. We have a similar park; we have a park in many higher cases; there is some community that has more, for example, Andalusia, but because it got them from the State. So, this is fake. But above all we want to do in housing is above all and in short approve two decrees. A first, which we have already tried and which was not possible – I would say that because of the political situation that we were living at that time – a decree of urgent measures in the matter of the promotion of the affordable logue; a decree that was approved by the Government – this should be March – and that we tried to get it validated here in Parliament, but that, finally, they saw that we were very close to the elections and that there was not enough consensus, we withdrew it. We will continue to work to bring this decree to the approval of the Government and to the validation of the Parliament. I have already announced that we have been working very intensively to increase the legislative capacities of the Government to precisely increase the qualifiable logger fleet, through many mechanisms; through, for example, the tanteig and retraction, which we can apply from Decree Law 1/2015, which was done by the Government, at that time of Convergence and Union, and which we are applying as much as we can in the current Government, which is a matter in which many autonomous communities to which you refer as if they are doing many more things than the present Government has not even reached. We will continue to act, for example, through the imposition of empty habitats, which is also a capability that we have endowed ourselves with in the Government, also, at that time of Junts for the Yes, to which many autonomous communities to which you refer as if you are doing more things than we are in habitation or have only arrived. We will continue to act in, for example, the full recovery of Law 24/15 or Law 4/16, laws that have been born – some – on popular legislative initiative, specifically Law 24/15, and that help us to attend much better, among other things, to the emergence. And we will also continue to work in another matter, which is not well with my department, the Department of Territory and Sustainability, but which correspond to the Department of Justice, although, therefore, we also work there, which is able to limit increases in the price of wine. Because, effectively – and in this I give you the reason – we have a problem in Catalonia, because our market is tense, much more than that of other autonomous communities to which it refers as if it does many more things than we do, and we have to act before this emergence, and we have to act so much in that it is the recovery of the accessible housing park, whether public or private, and we also have to act in the emergence. And we do it and we keep doing it, and with these two decrees that we're going to bring forward, so we can do it even more. I ask you, in your young lady, to help us, therefore, to bring down decrees in this line. And they also ask him to help us to ask Madrid to make the necessary and sufficient economic arrangements so that, among other things, Catalonia can develop this ambition to act in terms of housing. Two more things. You've been talking about the Incasól solo sales. Incasól's solo sales are not for cash; Incasól's solo sales are for continuing to make habitat policies, because Incasól has also developed an ambition to promote, to make public habitat promotion to logger, exclusively in logger. And, therefore, where possible, that it is only not marked for making official protection habitats, if it is possible to make a sale by competition that is oriented towards that it is also developed and from these entries we can make then concrete policies of public promotion of official protection habitats, in this case, we do so. But it's not for boxing, it's for housing policies. With the bonds we manage, which are not to manage them because they are, they are to make housing policies. We are very proud of the work that Incasól has been doing for many years – it was created the year 1980 – and thanks to the good management of the bonds and the solo that it buys, that it manages, that it develops and that on many occasions, therefore, it serves to continue developing city, developing economic activity and developing public promotion of soil and habitats has proved to be a useful tool, that others want to copy to us. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I was teaching a company that had a sign – you're the ones in the sign – that I'm going to answer, because, to me, lessons about remodeling barrels and concrete promotions of the Incasól and its management, few.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.291.0	You're out of here, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.292.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.293.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, has now the word the deputy interpellation Sergio Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.294.0	Counselor, the truth is that I've had a lot of laughs at his beginning of the intervention, because he started saying that I've talked about the process and these issues, and I've been counting on it, and he's devoted, like, two minutes that I had, like, four minutes to saying that I had talked about the process when I hadn't talked about the process. [[Greetings.]] [[The timer laughs.]] I think he wants to generate an image of City that we're just talking about, and, look, the only one who's ever talked about this has been you. And it even denotes... He also called my attention another thing: you spoke in Catalan but said "autonomous communities, and reminded me that there was a head of the vanguard many years ago who qualified them of the "Talibans of Convergence – to you, huh? – to you and to others, and, of course, I think that I am not able to say in catal 'autonomous community is quite strange, because I will read it the first article of the Statute of Catalonia: 'Caltaunya exercises its self-government constituted in autonomous community, according to the Constitution and this Statute. Autonomous community..., is to say, "community, if you see the latí, it doesn't cost so much to say it in català, does it? Above all, it's what the State says. But well... He didn't answer my question. I asked him why your worst results were that the rest of the autonomous communities. Why did I ask for it? Well, because one of the principles of decentralisation of the State into autonomous communities is to distribute skills, but also to put in competition the different regions so that they can develop public policies, and when it is detected that one does better, try that the others copy it to give the best serve the citizen. If not, it's no use to keep one state organized in a decentralized way, in municipalities... well, it's that in the end we need to see what the others are doing, cooperate with the rest of the administrations... And he asked me if we would work with the Government of the Generality to demand the pressure of the Government of Spain to improve the housing parties. Of course. But that's what I want to remember, that's to say, he said to me: "No, it's the State's fault. The guilt of your destining half of what the rest of the autonomous communities destining to housing policies is of the State? Or is it yours, what's the assumption? Who makes the assumption of the generality? The fan of you. Not the State: the fan you, with the resources. But it's that I'm going to read him another article from the Statue, look, two articles. The Constitution..., article 31 of the Spanish Constitution: "All will contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure according to their economic capacity through a fair tax system inspired by the principles of equality and progressiveness. That's contrary to what you're talking about the tax deficit. Because the fiscal deficit more than fiscal deficit is fiscal xenophobia, it's fiscal selfishness, it's victimism, it's victimism, it's generating victimism to fuel this nationalist project that always, at the length of history, has seen it feed on hatred. You're talking about tax deficits like Nigel Farage and all these people also say that Europe was stealing them, huh? Even Donald Trump, already, exaggeratingly said the world was stealing them, or go on, ya..., well, in this ja..., they're getting close, huh? - They're closing in. I will read another article, 202.2 of the Statute, which says that the Generalitat enjoys full expenditure autonomy so that it can freely apply its resources in accordance with the political and social guidelines determined by its self-government institutions. The premise of habitating the fan you are. Because the resources provided by the State are not final; you decide where the resources go, whether they go to communication media or go to housing policies. And he was asking for concrete things. Well, if I've talked to him about a lot of concrete things. You came to me with a written intervention... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Huh? Well, writing: planned, forgiveness– planned–, thought out, independent [[Funnel veils]] - No, no! – of what I told him. I'm telling you to come in with an intervention, huh? ...that he didn't care what I said because he didn't answer the five questions I asked him. Otherwise, we're supposed to ask the government to answer the questions we ask the government. Because the questions that we ask are of interest to the people outside, to our fellow citizens. Because what we're doing is controlling their government, the government that has to make them viscose on some conditions of welfare. But he didn't. He talked about other things, and he was talking about the retail. Did I talk to you about retailing? No, no, I told him that he's talking about presuppositional enforcement, that they've reduced presuppositional enforcement in habitat and increased it in communication media. Therefore, I think it has not been well – it has not been well – and ask him to answer me to the questions I have asked him. Why are their results worse than those of the rest of the autonomous communities? Why don't they complete with this not to continue coming public lands? What's the role to be played by Incase? Because he came to the Committee of Territorial Albert Civic and told us they were looking for a neutral balance. No, listen, we need to reverse the habitation. What are you going to do, with this 1,000_million euros that you approved in Parliament on July 11th? They're gonna make the generality's assumption bring this? And then I read him a whatsapp..., then I'll send him there, which I also have pictures of Victory Kent, because you see that this was a very concrete thing. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I put it so concretely, even a building of the Hospital of Llobregat, concretely. So, well, I hope... He was also wearing more things: he wanted to talk about his plan of government, which has not been very complete...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.295.0	Ahabi, Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.296.0	... but I hope that now you will answer these questions that I have asked you, because, if not, it seems to me a lack of respect for all of the citizens, who are expecting much more of this Parliament. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.297.0	Thank you very much. Vice-President, deputies, deputies. The honourable Member, in other words, that I have made him laugh and that you begin by talking to me about an article I don't know how many years ago he is talking about the Taliban or that you pretend to point out to me that I speak as he pleases, in the language he wants, of this Faristol, and continue to speak autonomous communities as I do, so what I want him to say, you have very little to see with habitation. I'm a stranger – or, gosh, I shouldn't be a stranger – that I have so much ignorance of what's going on in the country that they have so much ignorance of what's going on in housing. Maybe it's because many of the housing issues require a certain municipal concertation, need mayors, mayors, governors, governors, government... Ah, shut up! That you are not, practically in place. [[Widow's remorse.]] Maybe that's why – maybe that's why; maybe that's why, isn't it? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Because housing policy, effectively, is the exclusive competence of the Government of the Generality, you know what I explain to you from the economic endowment that you see through the Government of the State through the housing plans and you know that this requires an extreme concertation with the assemblies. And he doesn't know that you need this extreme concertation, because you're not there. They're not here! They don't have mayors, they don't have mayors, they don't have registrars, they don't have registrars... and this deep disenfranchisement of the country also causes a deep disenfranchisement in housing. And this municipal cooperation has led us, for example, to work with the Hospital Assembly on the deficiencies of these habitats that you said, which are not the strict competence of the Government of the Generality or the Habitating Agency, but which we speak with the municipalities to solve these problems. Like so many other problems in Catalonia's barrels, and especially in the metropolitan area, we have solved them long enough. You're asking me about some accommodations in the hospital? You know where the barrels of Governor, of Via Trajana, of South-West Besòs, of Sant Roc, of Sant Cosme – certainly, Sant Cosme and Sant Damia –, of Sal and Pota to Syria... Do you know where these barrels are? These barrels, with the efforts of the governments of the Generality, which progressively, since the year 80, have been building a whole policy of powerful, robust housing, we have remodeled them all: the cent_per_cent. And where there was inherited misery of Francoism, we have converted it into barrels where people can live: thousands of habitats transformed thanks to the action of the Government of the Generality, of the Incasòl, of Adigsa and now also of the Agency of the Habitatage. Therefore, I did not come here to give myself an example with claws of a concrete theme that I am sure – and I am not sure – that the Assembly of the Hospitallet addresses and that we will also help to address. Because you don't know how many years and years have gone by transforming all these barrels with so many deficiencies: one by infrahabitation, the other by structural pathologies – you're an architect and you know exactly what a structural path is – so all the barrels that had aluminum were remodeled: all of them are 100%. Therefore, don't look for me for maintenance: we properly maintain the housing stock, which is high. Do you know how many housings the Government of the Generalitat alone manages in Catalonia? More than twenty-thousand – more than twenty-thousand. And you know, from these twenty thousand, how many we've incorporated, for example, these last few years through so many years and retraction? Two thousand hundred. Say 'the autonomic community machine has bought 2,600 dwellings with many and retraction to great tenors? None. And we have done so thanks to the ambitious Government of the Generality through Decree 1/2015. Two-thousand-thousand habitats that we've incorporated into this park that we've already managed for twenty-thousand. And if we had more money, would we manage it even more correctly? Sense of doubt. And what if we had more money we'd still do more public promotion? Sense of doubt. But don't miss the action of the Incasól, held since the year 80, don't miss the action of the functionaries and the workers of the Agency of the Habitatage, that you are working that do very well their work, with very good cooperation with the assemblies, and this you completely ignore. And, finally: we don't just deal with what is the hard of housing policies, this promotion, this ongoing maintenance, but we also deal with the software, for example, these last few years, you help them with the logger. It's important. We've been changing some hard policies for some soft ones. Say 'the autonomous community allocates 100_million euros to the year, as we do, to pay aid to people and families in a vulnerable situation, with a whole program of very ambitious grants that makes those people who are at risk of losing their habitat, of denunciation, if, through social services, they address us and pass on their conditions, can they have help at the time of the visit? 100_million euros only in 2019. Therefore, this lack of awareness of the housing policies of the Incasòl Habitat Agency has been offensive, and shows a huge lack of awareness of what housing policies are and of the country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-11-4501.298.0	Well, exhausted the last point you've predicted for this session, we'll suspend until tomorrow morning.
