ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.1.0	MPs, MPs, vagina are sitting at your escons, please. Let's start the session. The list of questions to answer orally to the Ple is enclosed in the folder... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.2.0	Yes, Mr President; we wanted to request an amendment to the agenda, pursuant to Rule 83.3, to request that the appearance of President Torra be included in this plenary to explain the reasons for granting the Creu de Sant Jordi to Mrs Núria de Gispert. And we would ask, under Rule 88(2), that we read out the reasons for the request made by President Torra to appear before this change of agenda is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.3.0	All right. You are entitled to ask; in any case, we will first open the House and then, as I said, and as you are entitled, we will vote if the order of the day changes or not, eh? In any case, he said they had the list of questions to answer orally in the Ple's file. [[Greetings to a new Member]] Before following, give the welcome to the new deputy of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mrs Concepción Abelán, who already joins the plenary sessions. And also give the welcome, again, to the fourth secretary of the Bureau, Mrs. Adriana Delgado, who also returned after her maternity discharge. Welcome back. [[Greetings.]] In accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, the Member of Parliament Francesc Vilaplana, with a paternal vote, has delegated his vote for this plenary session to the Member of Parliament Sergi Sabrià, president of the Parliamentary Group Republicà. So, too, the memory that Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva deputies have appointed Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise their parliamentary rights. Next, and before we follow, I would like to remind you that another change in the order of the day has also been called for, in accordance with Rule 83.3 of the Rules, which consists of the alteration of item 12, relating to the Government's inquiry into the security of the people and the cities, so that this item 12, at the place of item 15, relating to the Government's inquiry into the policy of recognition and decoration, and, therefore, the five-point can be dealt with at the place of the dowry point, both this late. Can this change in the order of the day be approved by consent? Yeah? [[Pause.]] [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before we continue and begin with the first point of the order of today, I must inform you that, according to the official data of the Department of Interior, unfortunately April 20th, Olot died murdered the second death victim of this year for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women and to vet for the record and memory of these victims. We are now on the order of the day. This change in the order of the day has been made in relation to the appearance of the President of the Generality; the reading of the motivation has also been requested, will be done by Secretary García, and then we will proceed to the vote on this alteration of the order of the day. When you're ready, secretaries.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.4.0	Yes; he explained: "Because of the Government's granting of the Creu de Sant Jordi Government, the highest autonomous distinction, to Mrs De Gispert, a person reprobated by the Catalan Parliament because of her intolerant, racist and xenophobic actions against Catalan citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.5.0	We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment to the agenda. They know perfectly well that favorable votes are favorable... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We will call for a vote, yes – yes –; not pateixi, Mr.Gómez del Moral. We say that they are aware that the vote in favour..., the vote in favour is in favour of changing the order of the day and the vote against is unfavourable to this change. [[Long break.]] Well, let's get to the vote. The vote begins. The request to alter the agenda was rejected by 39 votes to 82, with no abstentions. Tell me, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.6.0	Yes; my group wanted to explain the meaning of the vote. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.7.0	The explanation of the sentiment of the vote, Mr. Carrizosa, not the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.8.0	Yes, because..., it's that seeing that several groups in the chamber have voted against the presidency..., against the president's appearance, being that a medal has been awarded to a person who has made xenophobic and racist comments...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.9.0	Mr. Carrizosa, no, this is not a matter of order...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.10.0	...so we wanted to highlight...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.11.0	It was a modification of the order of the day, Mr Carrizosa, not on the fonament and the foundation of the proposal they made, of the order of the day. And, in any case, if the groups that have voted which have voted do not want to clarify their vote, you cannot make a clarification of the vote of the other groups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.12.0	We wanted to justify, in any case, the desirability of having put this to the vote and to see what the Catalan Parliament voted on a matter of this gravity.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.13.0	Mr. Carrizosa, this should have been done before anyway. [[Ask the Government about the functioning of health services]] [[310-00163/12]] We're still on the order of the day. Let's start with the questions to the government to answer orally in the plenary. The first question is about the functioning of health services. The question is posed by Mr Jorge Soler, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.14.0	Thank you; good morning, Mr. President. Counsellor Vergés, you remember well that since the beginning of the legislature I have been telling you to devote all your efforts to fix health issues, to fix the work problems of health workers. You've been denying it, so... well, it's been many years since you ran this council, but, well, you know perfectly well that we are asking you to stop being the advisor of the waves; waves that started with primary attention, with agreements that you follow without completing, and waves that follow from yesterday in the collection as for example that of the SEM, the Serve of Medical Emergencies, that from yesterday are vague. And this collection is vague for its refusal to apply a 2.75_per_cent pay increment as you have agreed, or, as they well explain, for this chanting to renegotiate an agreement, obviously, at the bottom, for you. But, well, when we met with this collection here in the Parliament of Catalonia, what seemed to us all the more worrying is the work overload they also explain, that there are areas discovered by doctors. That same day they gave us an example of that same night, they explained it: a medical ambulance that went to Palamós to serve a man with a heart attack and at that time they had to make a decision if that ambulance was going around because there was a one-year-old boy, a child who was obsessing, and they had to send an ambulance with a nurse, because that ambulance that day didn't have any. The workers explain here to Parliament that there are pediatric ambulances who triage more than forty minutes to get to the service because the territory is discovered. You know perfectly well that there are medical ambulances in Barcelona which often do not have any doctors available during the day or during the night. You also know that Reus's coordinating centre is not in tea either. Miri, the call for vagrancy..., out here are saying: « SEM, the first to arrive and the last to collect. But I assure you, counsel, that they are always the first to help, to defibrill·lar, to intubate; that is, to say, they are the angels of the health system. For all this, counselor, I insist, do not follow the advice of the health waves, work for the health system, help the workers...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.15.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.16.0	...and he's meeting them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.17.0	Thank you. To answer, the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.18.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. I therefore devote all my efforts, absolutely all of it, to leading the system towards the future, also the Medical Emergencies System, also this so carefree, this first assistance, that you, forgive me, are not to guarantee it, but to guarantee it to the professionals who are within walking distance every day, to our ambulances, to our coordination centres, by taking the emergencies tricks and also by taking these tricks of the services that the EMS has, that they are very wide and that they are also councils of salvation to our citizenship, to indicate to the people who are the devices to which they can go. And in that, I take care of it every day. We have more than a thousand primary care centres and local consultants working every day with their professionals to serve our citizens. We have, in every hospital, in every territory, offices of external consults, specialists, that we open every morning to the eight of the morning, to the nine of the morning, to attend to our citizenship. Obviously, we don't open hospital blinds every morning because they're permanently open. And that is why, since the principle of the legislature, I have dealt with the challenge of professionals, who professionally need in the future to meet those needs of our health system, those needs of our citizens. Because we have a system that's very good. And it's a system that does more things every day, Members and Members; it's a system that solves with more servants, with more needs and more times this present and future of our city. That's why I gave a boost to primary care, which is proud – and I visit and talk about it every day – of wanting to do more, to be more resolute, to be at the side of our citizenry in that closest attention. And that's why I don't get away with other challenges that we have in our system, such as including the gender perspective in health policies. Also because of the President's ill-advised attitude to this session, also to fight against male violence that we see every day, and that we want a health system that responds to it and responds to it with absolute quality. And this was my first act as a counselor. We always have a constant, open dialogue with the workers of our system, because we want to assure them that they benefit from their professional work; we want to ensure that we have a system with professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.19.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.20.0	...suitable for these services. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.21.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the Generality's relationship with local authorities]] [[310-00164/12]] The next question is about the Generality's relationship with local authorities, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The question is posed by Mr Manuel Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.22.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Budó, what financial control, what financial tutelage is the Generalitat carrying out regarding those municipalities that are paying quotas to separatist entities such as the AMI?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.23.0	To answer, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.24.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Mr. Congressman, we, political control at our premises, do not exercise it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.25.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.26.0	Now? Yeah. Madam Councillor, Mrs Budó, I regret that the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia has not been read. In other words, the Generalitat has the power to financially protect those local authorities that are paying quotas to separatist chiringuitos such as the AMI. What is true is that the AMI is a little bit more of separatism that fosters division, fracture and confrontation among Catalans. And it is also financed by public money, it does not pursue any social or public ends. And it is that we are also paying for it by the neighbors, think as they think, of those municipalities that have joined. On the AMI page we can observe that the activity report for the year 2018 is not, is only that of the year 17, and only for activities of agitation and propaganda. Beyond this, we have been able to observe the budget that you have and it seems that the Transparency Act does not strictly comply with it because on a single sheet it seems that your entire budget is in place. We talk about 354,000 euros of public money that is wasted annually and everything from the municipalities. 70_percent of this budget is allocated to a placement agency, to place friends in the process and 30_percent is allocated to agitation and propaganda activities. But we can talk beyond municipalities, like the case of the Garriga. It is a municipality that pays two hundred euros per year. Sadly, Garriga's neighbors have to see how public money is being paid to a separatist entity. Or the case of my municipality, Sitges. We could also talk about municipalities such as the case of Sant Cugat del Vallès that are paying up to 8,500_eurazos a year to promote the division among Catalans. But beyond this, what we do want to highlight is that, be it a lot or a little, what is a shame is that only one euro of public money is destined to pay this separatist chiringuite. But also, the Socialist Party, it should be remembered that in municipalities where it governs with absolute majority, as the case of Castellet i la Gornal ten of its eleven directors not only adhere to the AMI, but also celebrate a party with live and live music. We also want to announce to you that when we reach local governments the first decree that we will pass from the mayors will be to leave the AMI and claim all the money that has been wasted to allocate it to municipal policies. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, you have the word again the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.28.0	Yes, thank you, President. See, this is going to be its reality anyway. A reality that shows an absolute disconnection of what the local world is. Miri, the municipalities, the local governments, those assemblies that form part of the Association of Municipalities for Independence is because, democratically and for the most part, their plenarys have approved it. So, it's a democratic mandate, it's a mandate of the plenary to this municipalist entity like the Association of Municipalities for Independence. But, well, you're still with your song; you're still with your tarann; you're still with this policy of destroying and not building. You are pursuing this policy of absolute ignorance of what the local world is and what it is doing. Look, the local world works, and it's the administration closest to the citizen and the citizen. It is that administration that is at the side of the veins and veins of each municipality that weaves territories and adds up to make country. But you're still working on this money from the Association of Municipalities for Independence, which means it's a legitimate, democratic association, created with endorsed and, therefore, all – all – legal statutes. And with a democratic mandate that gatherings and belongings are absolutely real. I'd love for you to talk about local finance. I would love for you to worry about all the issues that arise at these times that local politics, that local administrations can't be as much as they want to be with citizens and citizens. For example, repealing L'LRSAL's recent law, the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Government. Deroguing this law, treating local administrations as majors of age and beginning to talk about what real policies can be hard at the end of the local world. Look, you don't share our local world model, that's for sure. You say that our model with the local world is a model of debts, of lack of competition, of paying « syringuitos like the AMI. Look, let me just say one thing, here is the only "xiringuite there is that of you, that of Ciutadans, that is the node of the process and that the only policies that make are based on progress and destruction. So if we're talking about "singlinguites here the first" singinguites is what you built to fight...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.29.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.30.0	...or to work against the process. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.31.0	The next question is... [[Question to the Government on the application of Law 14/2017 of 20 July 2017 on guaranteed income of citizens]] [[310-00160/12]] ... on the application of the Law 14/2017, of 20 July, of the guaranteed income of citizens. Question put on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú Puem, by Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.32.0	Counselor, as more data appear from the guaranteed income of citizens, more is confirmed the lack of management of their department and the failure of the main objective of the law, that there is no one in Catalonia to live, survive, more quickly, less money than with those in the income index of Catalonia. The latest data are the publications this same week that reconfirm the fact that he was already denounced by this Member in an inquiry at the time of the fever, that the people who benefited from guaranteed income with full benefits come to those who already benefited from the minimum income of insertion in the years 2016 or 2017. In the beginning of the year, in fact, which is the data that came out this week at the press, they were all at once. The guaranteed income of citizenship – you know it well – did not arise to be a minimum income of insertion with the amount a little increased. It must have been driven by an ILP with the will to attack the poor that exists in our society and to which the minimum income was not giving an answer. So zero triumphalisms, counselor. He should be ashamed to have public resources devoted to paying advertising pages – with sums of money – to the press, as he did in April, while he was not responding to the public information requests made by the commission promoting the guaranteed income via the law of transparency. But the way it is now, after a year and eight months of guaranteed income, a year and eight months in which you have denied this gap in management, you yourselves now recognize that you are not fulfilling the terms, planning and control of this performance and are proposing, in order to resolve this gap, to hire an external company to do these functions. No more or less than Deloitte. Really? What degree of analysis do you really want this company to do? Why don't they do it with public resources? Has the decision been made to consult the Commission of the Government of the Guaranteed Income, which has the function of controlling the compliment of the law, councillor? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.33.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. They saw that the time didn't appear on the screen, there are thirty-five seconds left. We trust to fix it before I intervene again, but there are thirty-five seconds left. Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.34.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, Mirin, I'm short of it sometimes as we use it and as we do some demagogic with key elements. There are more than 120,000 beneficiaries of guaranteed income. The guaranteed income, we decided that it was complementary, and a very important part is complementary non-contributory services that are unworthy and that should not be of the amount that they are at present. In the same way that we have explained, by active and passive, as: we passed June 2018, in which only an 8_per_cent of the requests·requests complement the requests, to 2019, in which they are a 30_per_cent. We've been giving this coverage to everyone... and we're still working respectfully and we're still working and improving the system, because it's our obligation. Right now all shippers are on time and the only shippers that aren't on time are because they have requests on the part of the Administration. Another area is what you put me on, about the management of the technical office, which we previously had with the CTiTI, which was working with a company. We have made a public competition – as is to be done – this public competition still has no winner and does a very specific job throughout the period of deployment of this guaranteed income in which we need information support, around how we improve all processes. And we did it like all the administrations, and with absolute transparency because this information was stuck on the Generality's websites, on the contractor's profile, and they had the opportunity to present themselves to all the companies they wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.36.0	Well, transparency seems that for some it's a good thing that things are published, counselor. You're playing with guaranteed income data – you're playing with guaranteed income data – you can't deny that we're, like a lot of people now, at the covered population index that we're at the minimum income of insertion and, therefore, didn't make a guaranteed income ILP of citizenship. As usual, this Torra-Aragonese government reacts late and poorly, has few resources and mismanagement. Change of attitude, counselor, completing the law granting guaranteed income to everyone who has it right, and if they lack means to complete the law...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.37.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.38.0	...put them on account of giving more business to their friends. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.39.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.40.0	Congresswoman, I understand that we are in the campaign, I understand that everyone is campaigning, but I will not do what you do – I will not do what you do. I will not tell you that the IT services for the better for the management of the cleanness and the collection of the Barcelona Assembly, that they have a similar service, that curiously manages the same company, are not destined and receive money for the cleanness and the collection of the shops of Barcelona. I won't tell you because I won't do the cheap demagogue you're doing. And this service, as an example of a lot of other services that make all the administrations..., and what I would ask is a point of rigour at the time of planting this, because just like I say to the clean and collect IT services, I could also tell you the impulse and implementation of the plan projects...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.41.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia]] [[310-00161/12]] The next question is about the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia. Asks the question on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group to advance Mr Carles Castillo. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.42.0	Thank you, good morning to everyone. Mr. Counselor, the much negotiated and necessary Royal decree of early retirements of local police, approved for the government of Pedro Sánchez, began the negotiation some time before the CEM and trade unions. Therefore, perhaps not of the concrete conditions, but we had news, of the intention to approve it, for a long time now. This measure, therefore, is positive and necessary in order to rejoin plants enveloped during the crisis, demanded by all the local police of Spain's arrest and which it collects in great measure on the scale of the assemblies, will also cause the loss of many and many local polices to the municipal plants and result in the installation in operation of many nine places in all their assemblies, which will require the necessary training to become definitive police places. You have to take care of the training through the Institute of Public Security in Catalonia and make an appropriate forecast. The next course, in an exceptional and incomprehensible way, will begin on November and will not ensure the incorporation of the effects in June 2020, and its prediction – which is not a small one – is eight-hundred places for Mossos and six-cent places for local police – setting up barracks, by the way. But it's the Urban Guard in Barcelona that says they can claim five hundred seats. How do they intend to give answers and training to local police and city guards from all over Catalonia? Because the record that we are at the anti-terrorism level four_on_five, that the global crime has advanced a 20_per_cent to Catalonia and, above all, that in a police system like that of Catalonia, from which both the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra form, as all local police bodies of Catalonia – all of them are part together of the police system–..., in a system, therefore, of police like ours, unfortunately because of the insufficient number of moves and scarce investments, where, after all, who act most safely in Catalonia – this is true – because of the situation in which you hold the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, it is the local polices, an eleven_1,000 that act most effectively throughout the territory, that we cannot afford to do so much about it. What have you, therefore, predicted? And, as I have a little bit of time, I start some ideas, because we are generous in interior themes: changing the Institute's initial or final course months to adapt it to the needs of the meetings, for example, counselor; or making the course more flexible for each person through validations of official courses, or offering decentralized training to the meetings, creating a body of trainers that could move around and bring this training closer to the territory. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the Inner Counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.44.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. I thought he was going to me, but he was going to the president of the Spanish State, wasn't he? Because, as long as he was talking about the early retirement of the local police..., look, I was mayor in 2007 and he was already talking about the early retirement of the local police, 2007 was already talking about the early retirement of the local police, but who decided to do it one day for the other was not the Government of the Generalitat, it was not this councillor, but it was the President of the Government of the Spanish State, Pedro Sánchez. Therefore, who has unprotected, as you have said, with a level of four_on_five, the local police has been the Government of the Spanish State; who has taken this decision, with a level of crime like what you have said, has been the Government of the Spanish State. And now what you claim is to blame the Institute of Public Security that didn't go very fast, when a decree that was passed on 14 December last year caused the following month – the following month – to shoot five and six local police officers before seeing their mayor and saying to them: "From tomorrow I'm not coming to work, because I have a royal decree that allows me. So, who left without local police, without doing a prospecting, forecasting, predicting work that will happen when you make this decision, when you approve this royal decree, it wasn't us; we're going to trailer, because this decision we didn't make – this decision we didn't make. What have we done? We've taken over and put ourselves in contact with the gatherings. It is true that there is a first appraisal of the demands of local police by the assemblies. We will now, in short, deal with a second letter asking for the names of agents who actually request and want to do so, and from here, we will work together with the eight hundred moves, which at a given time we will also pull forward from November onwards. I also have to tell you that the promotions that we're getting ahead of us have a reduction of more than 20_per_cent of time for what you do to the call and the final promotion of the agents. So we're working on forced marches. And you say: « Posaran..., install barracks. Yeah, we don't have time to build buildings. Therefore, we will put prefabricated modules in anticipation of a reform of the institute, because in this way we will face this lack of agents that we have in Catalonia and, therefore, we will train them as quickly as we can. So, we're putting all the steps in place and to be able to solve a problem that we're patenting right now. Unfortunately, we don't all work in this line, and unfortunately there are people who decide that there are fewer police in the street, such as the Government of the Spanish State. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about union and educational community demands for the 2019-2020 course]] [[310-00162/12]] The next question is about trade union and educational community demands for the 2019-2020 course, question formulated for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent. The question is posed by Mr Carles Riera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Yesterday you and President Torra, the President of the Generality, held a meeting with the unitary representation of the educational community, with the MUCE, including the unions, that they came to ask for a few demands and proposals of minimums, absolutely of minimums, so as to return dignity to the education system, so as to begin to reverse details and so as to guarantee a minimum progress in the fight against segregation, for inclusive school and so that our education system can advance in the commitments that the same LEC, that you have proposed and approved, is able to complete. Minimal demands, of dignity; responsible claims, corresponding to the economic and budgetary situation of the country, absolutely worthy and minimal. The government's response, according to us, was not at all. What is your appreciation, counselor, of this meeting and of your response?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the education advisor, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.48.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, it's true that we had this meeting yesterday and that it was the continuation of pre-emptive meetings, it's true that the claims made by the various components of the MUCE are just and legitimate claims and it's true that these just and legitimate claims are not all the just and legitimate claims that we wanted to put on the table. What is not quite certain is that we say that not everything and, if you want, in the second answer I will explain to you which petitions we said we were already doing, which ones we could do and which ones we should continue to negotiate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.49.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.50.0	Counselor, these minimum demands are, look: reverse the second school hour, reduce the second school hour. This would involve 3,400 more teachers, therefore, improving quality, improving the working and living conditions of the teachers and, even so, would have positive effects on the reduction of ration, 45_million euros. At the same time, the MUCE does not ask for no more than 250, lowering university fees, with a minimum cost of zero-three years, in vocational training, in inclusive school; that is to say, basic claims to reverse a few details that, if we were to revert them to the 2010 level we are talking about 10,000_million euros, we would not be talking about 254; we would be talking about 7,000 teachers, we would not be talking about 3,400. So, listen, what they can't deny is compromises, dignity, and responsibility and co-responsibility, to these claims. You tell them it's not possible, but it's perfectly possible. You can pass a decree and this Parliament will approve it. It's technically viable, legally possible, and presumably also viable, they have presuppostary and financial romans and, therefore, they're escorted, it's a question of political will; a political will that, for which you see it, you don't have, on a subject like education, that it's a big and central theme for progress, social justice and cohesion in this country. For all this, we will give full support tomorrow to the university students' walk and the 16th to the teachers' walk, because it is a question of dignity, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.51.0	Congressman, time's up. Thank you. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.52.0	Yes, the claims that were not strictly unionized we stayed with the representatives of the MUCE that we would make a few found to analyze them, because some of them were already pulling forward and some of us could pull forward as of September. For what it does to union demands, really the key to the question is this school hour, from dinu to dinu and from twenty-four to twenty-three in primary and secondary, is the question. That's 154_million euros each course. It is 154_million euros each course that the current budget scenario does not allow us to secure. Because a presupposition law decree, as the Economy Advisor often says, is not a money making factory, it's that when there's some money you can invest in something that the assumptions don't allow us to do, but we're not in this condition. I remember that there was already a decree passed in this Parliament, presumptive, that already included an increase game for the Department of Education. Because you will know that in 2019 we will make an investment in Chapter I, as a teacher, a 12_per_cent higher than 2018, which corresponds to the salary increases and corresponds to what we contracted in September, due to the need for schooling, and that we have the whole year. I remind you, moreover, that since the 2014-2015 course until Encanny has contracted 7,792 dozen us, that we now have 5,200 more teachers than in the pre-crisis times and that encanny...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.53.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.54.0	...we'll allocate the 12_per_cent more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.55.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the situation of nautical beach clubs]] [[310-00167/12]] The next question is about the situation of beach water clubs. Question put, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, by Mrs Tarrés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.56.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. The world of sport is painful and we are because the Catalan water clubs, which represent a singular reality with a wide social and sporty development in our country, are in danger. We have a bit of a history: 1878 created the first club, the Nautic Club Tarragona, and it was born as a club with federated activities and sailing schools, which over time have helped spread and boost sea sports between the population and the rest of our country. Currently there are sixty-eight federation water clubs, of which thirty-two have installations or docking area on the platter. Of these last, a total of seven have built-up surfaces and many have a restoration area. We are talking about clubs like the Club and Nautical Base of Pineda, the Club Nautic Calella, that of Vilasar de Mar, the Bétulo de Badalona, the Club Maritime of Castelldefels, of Cubelles and Torredembarra to name a few. Last week we were familiar with the dysfunctions that the state legislation supposes for Catalan clubs. The regulation they make of these installations the law and the state cost regulation is clearly harmful to the water clubs and endangers their future. Article 149.3 of the Catalonian State of Autonomy of the year 2006 establishes that it corresponds to the Generalitat, in the matter of the ordering of the coast, respecting the general rule of public domain, the exclusive competence, which in any case includes the management of the occupation title and the use of the public domain maritime land, especially the institution of authorizations and concessions. The assumed exclusive competence of the Generalitat is absolutely conditioned for the exercise of the functions reserved for the State in the same Royal decree of transfers of 2008, which makes impossible to the practice that the Generalitat may have a policy of own in matter of arrogament or extension of concessions of nautical clubs of platja. It is for this reason that we want to ask, counselor, who has been, and will be the performance of the department respecting this question and what solutions are proposed to give answer to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.58.0	Yes, thank you, President. President, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Members..., Madam Member, many thanks for your question, it is very pertinent, because we have not ceased to work for one day since the beginning of this parliamentary term for the management of the coast. The coast is everything, it is the coast, the ports, the beaches and the activity that develops there. In fact, just a few weeks ago, the Government of the Generalitat approved a draft law on the ordering of the coast that was already being seen here in Parliament, in which it takes much into account landscape and planning aspects of the territory. But also, effectively, since 2008 the Government of the Generalitat has been working in all that is the management of the uses of the coast through which is the regulation of the concessions of all types of activities, the seasonal ones, obviously the same concessions of the ports or the activities more associated to the tourism – I am referring to restaurants – or also effectively the clubs, the sea clubs. These clubs you said were in danger, because that's actually it. It's a very busy activity in our territories since decades ago. In fact, it is not only a sports activity, but also a social activity, which gives on many occasions fills the municipality that acquills them and that, therefore, it is absolutely necessary that we see it as this, as an activity not only sports but also social. And, indeed, even though we have since 2008 the delegated powers, these concession management powers, these powers are very conditioned for which it is the management itself of these concessions. There are reports from the Ministry... – according to the legislature change of name – in this case it is of Ecological Transition, around the regulation of these concessions and, above all, there is a regulation that makes it impossible to develop with normality. Currently they have the surface restricted to three-cents_metres_squares. That's what we think is absolutely insufficient, shutting down the lockdown area. And, therefore, in the modification of the regulation that is being processed at these times, we have made attachments to the Government of the Generality because this minimum area is seven-hundred_metre_squares and that, moreover, the concessions that are already expired are not to be adapted to this surface in the first third of the length of this concession, but can be made in new concession. All this work...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.59.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.60.0	...to the margin...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.61.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.62.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.63.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about measures to help municipalities face environmental risks]] [[310-00168/12]] The next question is about measures to help municipalities before environmental risks. Question posed, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, by Mr Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.64.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all, counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies. Counselor Buch, recently you announced a set of measures, with the firefighters also, to deal with the fire strategy of our country. But, as you well know, it is not only the fires that concern us in Catalonia that concern us, but because of our Mediterranean position the climate has extremes and, therefore, we can find ourselves with winds, snows, the fires we want, but also many times the typical cold-drop storms or the carrying or Mediterranean that affect with great intensity different parts of the country. These storms many times... and unfortunately the last few years we have seen that they have caused, and so on, dead from the city. In fact, since the year 2015 there have been gathering, unfortunately, fifteen dead from the city in the face of these episodes of very strong storms, very violent, with water and floods, eh? We will remember the Vall d'Aran, we will also remember the city of Girona, we also remember that the Insurance Compensation Consortium speaks of more than 200_million euros contributed to deal with the misfortunes that have occurred. And, therefore, speaking also of these floods, I would also like us to... who are the measures that the Government and its advice are pushing to help the municipalities, that many times they are also small municipalities and with few means, to fight to minimize the damage and facilitate the recovery of normality when these episodes of water and storms pass so frequently, also because of the climate change, that the continent's conjunction is patenting. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.66.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. It is true that, for what the experts tell us, we are ahead of a phenomenon, a global phenomenon, but, above all, it affects the Mediterranean and is based on many things, it speaks of the climate change, it speaks of the rise of the middle temperature of the sea, which generates thermal anomalies during the summer, which widen until late or winter, eh? , and which generate very strong storms and which, probably, these storms are reproducing vaginas at the length of the future. You've given some figures; I don't want to go any further than the period of this legislature. The 6th of September of the year passed, here not far enough, to the advent of the Parallel fell 77_litres_per_metre_square in half an hour. In Oris, the same day, in ninety minutes, 124_litres_per_metre_squared fell. In Hebrew Lands, October 19th was recorded more than three hundred_litres_per_metre_square with cent_litres_per_metre_square intensities in two hours, and that's what it does to show that we are ahead of a complex phenomenon to manage and is environmental. We also need to remember the evil episodes of the thirteen people killed in Mallorca, the thirteen people killed in Carcassona, or twenty-nine in Italy or, for example, in Alacant, the 244_litres_per_metre_square in six hours. Therefore, we are ahead of a phenomenon affecting the Mediterranean, which is expected to continue to be reproduced, as experts say. And so, since 2016, the Interior Department has been working to improve the early detection of these phenomena, and that's why it signed up for a project, a European project, which is called Anywhere, which is a consortium that is formed for thirty-four organisations of eleven different countries in Europe. It has been carried by the Department of Interior, for the Directorate General of Civil Protection, and coordinated for UPC, specifically for the Applied Research Center in Hydrometeorology. From here, from this work, a tool that is said to be A4CAT has come out; it is a pioneer in Europe, and from what it is about is to detect preventively, approximately with two hours of anticipation, therefore, phenomena of intense rain and, therefore, possible floods, and the spaces that generate a certain vulnerability to society have been referred to as, for example, schools, centers for great people, etcetera, that we will continue...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.67.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about support policies for local governments]] [[310-00169/12]] The next question is about support policies for local governments. Asks the question, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Anna Erra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.68.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, the Plan of Government of this legislature is marked by one of the priority objectives of social and territorial cohesion, and the policies related to the local world are concrete to the strategy "A country of opportunity, a living country. Strategies to promote the economic development and quality of life of people in the country. For this reason, and on the line of promoting economic growth and the improvement of the standard of living in all the territories of our country, yesterday, the Government adopted an important agreement, approving the strategy for territorial dynamism. An agreement that wants, for all areas that suffer from depopulation, a very high rate of unemployment or, for example, a high level of population growth, promoting opportunities. What? So, through economic activity, so as to seek solutions in a coordinated way that allow them to grow economically, diversify their economy and improve their standard of living. Now, in the band of referring to this government agreement, I would like to refer, above all, to his interventions in this same chamber during the past Ple, three questions were answered about the local world and in his replies he announced the recovery of the PUOSC. Everyone in the municipal world knows the importance of this instrument to local authorities, such as the economic cooperation tool for the realization of works and investments in the local area. That's why I wanted to ask you, Counselor, how does the government intend to deploy these policies with the local world? Who are the strategies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.69.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word has the adviser of the Presidency, Mrs. Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.70.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, well, let me... first of all, your question allows me to put in full value the work that is done by the local governments. Certainly, it's a matter of concern. In fact, at the last plenary session, three questions on the local world, today, two questions. This, to me, therefore, as the mayor I have been, pleases me, because it puts in value the gatherings as to that administration closest to the citizenry. You, Mrs. Erra, are mayor and you know it perfectly well, we all know two and many of those in this room who have been linked to the local world..., we know firsthand the importance of the local world and how, often, this has been required by some political formations and also by the Government of the State, and this Government also knows it. We also know and know the importance of the local world and, therefore, we want to strengthen territorial development, we want to boost economic growth in the territory, we want to generate occupation, we want to improve the life of all the territories of the country and, therefore, we want to approve this strategy, country of opportunity, country living. But we want to do it with the hands of the local world; not imposing anything, but sharing with the local world and doing it by working folds, sharing this project to put in value the alliance of the Government of Catalonia with the locals. We are also committed... (For technical reasons, some words of the Council's intervention have not been recorded.) Yeah? Now, yes. Thank you. We are also committed and want to accompany the local world in the creation of new infrastructures or in the creation of new equipment. We are talking, for example, about day centres, sports facilities, jobs for the duration of the installation of optical fiber in the territories, in the polygons. Today, the economy of the Generalitat allows us to do this for the first time since the year 2012 and that's why we did it, recovering this important tool as it is the PUOSC – the Unique Plac d'Obres y Serveis de Catalunya – which I announced at the end of the day and which the Government already has. A plan that will have 250_million euros initially and that will have, above all, a special endowment for small and medium-sized municipalities and districts. I'm done. This government wants to boost the relationship of trust with the local world, mutual recognition, accompanying policies, service, firm commitment to the local world, and so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.71.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.72.0	...this plan of territorial dynamism and recovery of the PUOSC. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.73.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the deployment of the territorialization decree of the Public Employment Service of Catalonia]] [[310-00165/12]] The next question is about the deployment of the territorialization decree of the Public Employment Service of Catalonia. Question posed, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, by Mrs Lluïsa Llop.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.74.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Counselor El Homrani, the data of theatur and the data of the affiliation to the Social Security of Catalonia, published all just a couple of days ago, decipher the download of theatur in 14,142 people and also in an increment of 33,408 the number of persons affiliated to the Social Security. These data are certainly positive and show the capacity for growth and generation of employment in the Catalan economy, even so, in a_me where there is an increase of almost eight_ thousand people in the working population. Despite the position of these data, we don't have to forget that almost 382,000 people are still doing so and we don't have to forget that many others have very low quality, precarious and temporary occupations. Sense of doubt, an important measure to walk towards a stable and quality occupation would be the repeal of the later state labor reforms, which precartize the labor market. Unfortunately, at these times, this does not depend on the Generality. But we can, from the Generality, make available to the workers, busy and unemployed, the best possible tools that allow them to orient themselves professionally, that allow them to train themselves, qualify themselves and look for work. That is why I want to bring the Occupational Service closer to the territory and, above all, to the people. The current system, certainly because of its dependence on an annual breakdown with little equity criteria of the funds earmarked for active employment policies made by the Sectoral Conference on Employment and Labour Affairs, does not allow for a truly coordinated task among all actors involved in the Catalonia Employment System. The locals, the gatherings, are the best connoisseurs of their lives, of their business fabric and of the labor market in their territories. Therefore, I want to make them the centre of governance of the Occupational System of Catalonia, together with other economic actors, with social agents, with business agents, with educational agents, in a participatory and cooperative way. It is necessary to make the SOC the starting point of a decentralized system, which takes into account the low level of the territory to make the diagnosis, the planning, the coordination and the execution of the active policies of occupation that each territory needs. That is why, Councillor El Homrani, we would like to know from the Republican Group what is the government's understanding of the territorialization of the SOC, which we consider essential for a better adaptation to the territory.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.75.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.76.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.77.0	To answer, the word has the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.78.0	Thank you, President. As you said, SOC Law 13/2015 implies changes and changes in the system, and one of the most important and profound is territorial concertation, which we call "Coordination, integration and integration into the territory of active employment policies; diagnosis, planning, coordination and implementation of these policies; shared governance, shared with territorial agents, with local agents, with economic, social and other types of agents that can be incorporated, and some co-decision and cooperation procedures. With this objective, over the last few years, we have held almost a hundred meetings with local agents, social and economic agents, so as to agree on what the SOC territorialization decree should be. A need and a demand that has long – too long – asked for our local fabric, our territorial fabric and our economic and social fabric. With this will, we have been working from a perspective that integrates policies of occupation, continuous training and collaboration with other actors; we have also worked, always from a respect to local autonomy and entities that will form part of these strategies, the recognition of the geographical diversity and territorial diversity that this country has and the increase of participation. What we need to be allowed is an integration of low-to-high-occupancy policies. An integration that makes it possible to improve the response to the needs of the product fabric and also of people in each of the territories. And finally, we were able, yesterday, the technical council, to pull forward and present this territorial concertation decree, which will allow us to start implementing these territorial strategies by 2020, from hand to hand, with co-government with all locals, with co-government with all social and economic agents, which allows us to have better tools to give solutions to people and which can be integrated into the world of work, which is our responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.79.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about historical memory policies]] [[310-00166/12]] The next question is about historical memory policies, and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.80.0	He will advise, in this chamber, we have already listened several times that in history the wounded veils cannot reopen them. You know what I'm saying, though? Which I like very much, today, to share what was one of the days that struck me the most in the last legislature, the day that this Chamber approved the Law of Legal Reparation of the Victims of the Franchise, because the wounds are not repeated, the wounds are cured, they are healed. It's a debt we have hanging like society, we all deserve to be remembered and rescued from oblivion, because, during the Transition, what was done was an oblivion pact. Someone thought it would already be net, but, no, it hasn't been done and, as the show shows, the political judgment to our partners in the Supreme. The structures of the State have either not changed or have changed very little. And silence doesn't heal wounds, it doesn't heal the soul of an evil society, it does the words, respect, understanding, learning from the past to be better in a future, remembering the history and being able to link it to the present to create a tomorrow without making the same mistakes is the best antidote against the fexism and this shameful ultra-threat that is coming. It is our duty to remember, preserve and make clear the silenced memory of so many people who fought for democracy, the republic and freedom, and that Francoism, with its systematic, violent and cruel repression, eliminated and silenced. The Romeva Councillor was valiant to be taken forward in the actual initiative of repair, such as the opening of pits, the DNA bank or the law of nullity of the feelings of the Franco Councils. The secret of the company that should be safe here, next to us, and now, it's a political pressure. Diumenge passed, just like the liberation of the Nazi concentration camps. We remember that he was the one who inaugurated, on behalf of the Government of Catalonia, a memorial plaque at Mauthausen's extermination camp, reminding all the victims of the holocaust said: "You can stop the dehumanization. Dr. Josep Fontana also reminded us of an argument that is ill-advisedly too much today: "The struggle for freedom continues to exist, before we achieve democracy with separation of powers and now these powers do not end up separating themselves from democracy. While taking into account the great pocket begun in the later legislature, perhaps eighty years late, counselor, we know that they have taken the replete with good grace...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.81.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.82.0	...and we ask who will be the proper passes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.83.0	To answer, there is now the parable of the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.84.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., Mrs Caula, Mrs Caula, remembering Councillor Romeva, as you very well expressed..., who has made policies of memory thinking about all people, without exclusion, as you also very well pointed out, and Councillor Mundó and Councillor Comín, who worked together, therefore, to make possible the genetic identification of the people who found themselves in the pits that there were leaks in the country. I wonder who are the policies we're going to do. So, look, I've said it many times: it is already in the oven the Law of Democratic Memory, which will go much further than we have at these times; it will be a law that will homogenize all that we have at these times but it will compliment the principles that some read, in this case the state, do not fully complete, that are the principles of truth, justice, reparation and conditions of non-repetition. And with what we have and in the meantime we're working on, like the location and identification of missing persons during the Civil War and Francoism. And in this case, then, there's the pit map, the 517 geo-localized pits. And during this 2019– during this 2019–, we have already started, the different studies are due to the end to the regions of the Pallars, the Segarra, the Garrigues, the Pla d'Urgell and the Urgell to expand the number of pits that know there is and exists; the Hundred of missing persons; the Pla de were with archeological, anthropopolitical excavations and genetic analysis, which benefit the fortunes of the family members who have indications that they have someone missing or buried in some of the pits that facilitate the data to be able to increase DNA data. As a result of all this work, we were able to hand over to the families the remains of the first four victims who could be identified as the fruits of the Genetic Identification Program; moreover, the last was last week, when we were able to hand over the remains of an Italian maquia, a party that came to work, to fight with the guerrillas, with the maquis, in order to free us from the franchise. So last week we handed over the remains to his family and at these moments they may be finally in his hometown, north of Italy. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.85.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the judgment of the Superior Court of Justice of Catalonia in relation to the violation of the fundamental rights of freedom of expression and the ideological rights of young people of the Catalan Civil Society by the Rectorate of the Autonomous University of Barcelona]] [[317-00094/12]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.86.0	Thank you very much, President. How do you appreciate the recent judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that the Rectorate of the Autonomous University of Barcelona violated fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression or ideological freedom, to young people of Catalan Civil Society? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.87.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.88.0	Good morning, Mr. Congressman. I'm a stranger to this question, I'm a stranger to this, because I thought, "Look, you're going to be asked about the problems that Catalans are really worried about. For example, let's talk about the Active Population Survey, let's talk about how this country is able to lower its rate by months, from as from the year 2012 until the year 2019 we have lowered eleven points the atur, from how we are at the 11.6_per_cent of atur, while the Spanish State is at 14.7_per_cent, and, therefore, as in Catalonia, let's lower the atur, therefore, to Spain. But I see that no, that you're still worried about the problems that only concern you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.89.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.90.0	Thank you, President. I must say that on economics we have presented dozens and dozens of initiatives that have received silence from you. In any case, it is good to know that for you freedom of thought, conscience and activity in university is not a problem that interests people. Look, the sentence is, in short, conclusive and is blunt: fundamental rights of students were violated, rights of freedom of expression or ideological freedom, and that is especially serious that happens in a university, which is supposed to be the temple of knowledge, where people can express their ideas with total freedom, share them. No; in Catalonia, a university has become a place where fundamental rights of students are violated. And we are not talking about politicians, as Mrs. Laura Borràs said in an absolutely unfortunate way, saying that they were politicians who were going to look for problems, no; those who organize the activities are students, students who systematically see their rights and even their own personal security violated: they have been repeatedly assaulted by the silence, the indifference, when not directly the connivance, of the rectorate of the Autonomous University of Barcelona. Look, the young people of S'ha Finat! They are also Catalans – they are also Catalans – and they would deserve a word of affection from the president who is supposed to be of all Catalans, who are you. And here we would have to take action. There are some in which I am absolutely convinced that we will not agree. We ask in due course for the resignation of the rector; I imagine you do not share it. But there are others that we could start working immediately and that should not be difficult to agree on: how to improve the security protocols of universities, accepting and making compatible university autonomy with the fact that the Mossos can act not when things have already been irreversibly complicated but from the very beginning. I think we could agree on that. But, at this point, and after the sentence, I believe that a first step – a first step – could be for you as President of the Generalitat to show minimal empathy, a minimum of affection for young people who have been, I repeat, systematically assaulted. It would be terrible if, in the middle of the 21st century – the 21st century – that was happening in a Catalan university and the president of the Generalitat de Catalunya...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.91.0	Congressman, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.92.0	...not only don't say anything, but... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.93.0	Congressman... [[Pause.]] Thank you, Congressman. To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.94.0	Yeah. Look if I'm worried about the freedom of expression that at these times I have a quarrel for disobedience to keep the links to the Palau of the Generality, as a fact of freedom of expression. [[Greetings.]] And in the Palau de la Généralita there is a banner that sets out freedom of expression and opinion, which is one of the fundamental articles of universal rights. I look if I'm worried that these facts that you mention to the universities and the schools, I look if I'm worried..., that on October 1st of the year 2017 police and civilian guards enter into the Catalan public schools, blameless citizens who were voting, the Peguessin, the pulls in the stairs down. And that is the temple of wisdom, where our young people are taught. And that happened in full 21st century. That's what happened, this violence against citizens who were exercising their legitimate right to vote. I never heard it – never – you said anything against that miserable action that the Spanish police and the Spanish Civil Guard held. And, in the third place, let me remind you that, thanks to God, in this country the Gaudeixen universities of autonomy, university autonomy – university autonomy –, and, therefore, what I will always respect is the autonomy that university centers have. And what I would like is that precisely the universities, their rectors, their students, are now more than ever at the expense of the liberties and the rights of Catalonia, more than ever. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.95.0	Thank you. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the measures taken by the Government to respond to the social mobilizations planned for this spring]] [[317-00095/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.96.0	Yeah. Good morning, President. In November his government did not see the mobilizations of the late heat coming, and I ask him if this spring heats them up too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.97.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.98.0	Yes; honourable Member, as you know, we have actually had a conflict situation in our country, because the situation is conflicting, because we are reverting to a very complicated situation, from a few details of the years 2010-2011 that actually, to reverse them, after a few years that cost us a lot..., this government is doing it. And all those demonstrations that you now imply – of the teachers, of the medical staff, of the public servants and now also of the bombers – all – all – we have solved them. And how did this government do it? How'd you do that? Talker, talker, come to terms. We've solved them all. And any new situation that you claim, that's just and legitimate, I insist, because we're on the side, we're on the side, we're on the other side, we're on the other side, we're on the same system: talking, talking and reaching agreements.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.99.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.100.0	President, next week's Tuesday will be just one year that you have been invested as president, and during this year we have insisted on it because the government sees that it does not face the area, that it does not govern and that it does not give solutions. In fact, the CEO says that more than half the Catalans and Catalans think this government doesn't know how to solve the country's problems. So I think there's a cognitive dysfunction between what's going on and what you see. You don't react, and when you do, it's late and bad. He went late and we'll see him now. The next 16th the education community has already announced a vacancy because they do not want to return the lost labor rights, saying that there are other priorities like inclusive school or struggle against segregation when we all know that if we lower rates and have more teachers the school is more inclusive and less segregated. But it's that the students will also go to the university tomorrow and are preparing an ILP before their government's repeated failings to lower university fees. Depending on it, it is the workers and workers of the residences who today were demanding resources to be able to work with dignity, and at the gates of the park were waiting for the workers and social workers. In greeting, I will no longer talk about the waiting lists, which are being fired; the Medical Emergencies Service yesterday came up because you are not doing the job when the salaries of the management staff are increasing. The Mossos have announced that the Tuesday will begin a wave of mobilizations for lack of effect. And in childhood, you're not paying the foundations of the child care centres. Certainly, many of the issues depend on Republican Left Councillors, which often seems not to be the entire government's responsibility. So, well, it's all about the government, even though they're falling behind you. And while the hot spring is on the way you're discussing the Sant Jordi Creed of Mrs. Núria de Gispert, a belief, for sure, that you had to reject it because you didn't have the courage to remove it there, when it was a mistake of the height of a bell to give it, because we're not talking about a punctual tweet, we're talking about a person who had already been reproved for this Parliament by very apparent facts. In short, a tragic and sad half-hour of his government and his inaction. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.101.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.102.0	First, I would ask you to speak with more respect of Mrs. De Gispert, who has been president of this chamber. [[remorse of the voice]] , very honorable and member of the Council...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.103.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.104.0	...of the Government of the Generality. They ask you to speak with respect for their trajectory.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.105.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.106.0	Second, two themes, two themes only, because you see how we solved them: the topic of firefighters and the theme of education. The topic of the bombers. After six years – six years – in which no public call had been made to increase the number of firefighters' body personnel, six years carried this country, we have made an effort to promote a further 500 new firefighters, to invest more than 90_million euros in a new mobile park of firefighters, to push forward the remodeling of Figueres, Girona and many others, and to reach an agreement with them; we have reached an agreement, at a much greater agreement with the firefighters, a situation that was also conquered, very difficult, as we had with the public servants, and we solved it. And we will also resolve the vagueness and claims of the teachers who plant. The Councillor has said this, and he has said it perfectly: they are minimum conditions, which are asking, and not even those minimum conditions, with the current presuppositional situation of the Generality, we are not able to meet them. That's right. And I assure you, it's sad for the President of the Generality to have to recognize him, but that's it. Now, if you have the proposal for a presumption with which we have been negotiating the hagussin approved, a large part, a large part of the demands, a large part of the demands of the masters and the collectivists and of the parents and the seas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.107.0	President, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.108.0	...would've worked it out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.109.0	The next question... [[Question to the President of the Generality on the procedure for the deployment of guaranteed citizenship income]] [[317-00093/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.110.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Very honorable President of the Generalitat, who appreciates the process of deploying the guaranteed income of citizens?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.111.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.112.0	Member, there was a question in this House about this concept. I think Councilman El Homrani has made things very clear. I don't know if you want to touch on some more concrete aspect of the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.113.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.114.0	Thank you, President. The question was simple: what value did you make of the deployment. It's logical that I don't have it, because the value can't be other than that of weakness. His Government has failed in the deployment of guaranteed citizenship income, an income that was the result of a great parliamentary and social consensus, and a product of the efforts of the promoters and promoters of popular legislative initiative. His Government's decision to hire a private company to put order in the procedure for the granting of benefits to make it manifest. But not just that. The same Director General of the Social Economy has signed a report that he acknowledges when my parliamentary group has been denouncing; I quote literally: "The Administration does not have human and technical means that give answer to the needs that the support service requires to manage the processes linked to the management of the guaranteed income of citizens. And it justifies the partial outsourcing of management to make it viable – and I quote – « the completion of the procedures administered in the legally established terms. Mr President, 620 days after your inn on the march, you acknowledge that you do not have sufficient human and technical means. Nor do they have the rule of law, a rule which you yourselves described as indispensable. When do you think you'll approve? Yesterday, we also know a data that speaks for itself: the guaranteed income of citizenship does not equal the coverage of the help that was to be replaced. The poor management of guaranteed income carries two risks: one, that citizenship does not ask for it because it considers it inaccessible – as it has already passed, to a large extent, with the minimum income of insertion – and that we end up denying hundreds of thousands of families in Catalonia to the fact that they recognize the State of autonomy, the right to assure the least to live a dignified life. Mr. President, are you aware of this weakness? What do they think they're doing to correct this situation? When do you intend to provide data fully transparently so that we can know how many requests have been submitted, how many denials, how many add-ons of people who benefit from another service, how many add-ons of people who do not go home? President, this has not gone well, and in our interest and in the interest of the country, it would be worth the maximum amount of effort and effort...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.115.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.116.0	...to properly deploy the rent. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.117.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.118.0	Mr. Deputy, I deny you the Major: this is going, it's going well, it's going well with all the difficulties we have. And you could have helped make these difficulties smaller at least on two occasions and two different ways: first, because Article 155 was a serious impediment to the deployment of guaranteed income, Article 155 that you voted for. [[Funnel veils]] - And so much! – and then, if there was any support for the proposal of assumptions that the Government of the Generality had worked and that tried to seek this consensus between the groups, there were more than 300_million euros of guaranteed income expected there too. Why was she affected by 155? So because you couldn't actually deploy the rules. And that distorted the guaranteed income application a lot. We have had to solve the serious problems of this delay; collections that could have come in and that have not been able to go in yet; we have not been able to deploy the guaranteed income governance board; we have also had problems with certain complements to be able to agree with the State and fix the compatibility between guaranteed income complements and state benefits. Anyway, how many people are enjoying this guaranteed income in Catalonia? One hundred and two thousand persons, all these beneficiaries: those who were already beneficiaries of the minimum income of insertion, 66,000, who were automatically passed to collect them; those beneficiaries of non-contributory pensions who did not reach the topall of entries required for guaranteed income also went to collect the supplement, therefore, 45,000 persons. So we are spending EUR 80 million on guaranteed income. And we will continue, because we have improved the response of the management rhythm of the secured income shippers, which is also what Councillor Homrani explained to them. By June 2018 there remained pending to value split_thousand requests– the application of 155 –, split_thousand requests pending resolution. The settlement pendings in March 2019 are so sunny 4,400. That's to say, he recovered the rhythm he was calling.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.119.0	President, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.120.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.121.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generality about the rights of democracy and freedom in the new context of the results of the general elections of 28 April]] [[317-00096/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the deputy Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.122.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President Torra. Last April 28th there were Spanish elections with a historical result, but they are elections, I would say, historical, for two reasons. First: independence victory in some Spanish elections in history, more independenceist scons than ever, more independenceist votes than ever, thirty-five elected the diumenge 28, of sixty-four, who are of independenceist forces. But they are also historical elections for the democratic anomaly with which they have lived: with successful candidates, with Jordi Sánchez, Jordi Turull, Josep Rull, Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva, elected deputies and senators, who are political prisoners. Therefore, a few elections in a context of a huge democratic abnormality. In Catalonia Oriol Junqueras has won the elections and brings 551 days of business; the most voted senator in Catalonia is Raül Romeva, who brings 443 days of business. A few elections in a context of democratic abnormality that is absolutely troubling. And this democratic abnormality, this repression, this history of repression on the part of the Spanish State, we are also following this same week: Jutjat 13_has put a bail of 5_million euros to thirty people who have been prosecuted, non-media, not so media, but workers, workers, general staff, entrepreneurs...Five_million euros, like revenge. That they want to ruin their lives, that they want to impound the floors, that they want to impound their immobile assets. And what's the answer to that? So the same thing. When it's repressed, let's use the ballot boxes. When there has been economic repression, let's use the solidarity box. And when we experience this huge period of repression that continues... there are quoted mayors to declare, there are quoted deputies to declare, there are decisions of the electoral board that are absolutely arbitrary and more now illegal, or you yourself, president, that you have been quoted to declare the coming week. The repression continues, the repression continues. And before this context of repression, that... she is not nervous, Mrs. Arrimadas; in fact, you, who have made zero senators to Catalonia, have only offered to Pedro Sánchez to apply the 155 [[applause]] They offered their senators only to apply the 155! And they've made zero senators to Catalonia, Mrs. Arrimadas. So this is the response of repression that always – always, always – they have: suppressing self-government, undertaking and mortifying the will of a people. President, on 28 April, with this new electoral context, how does he value this political cycle that can be opened and how does he value it in this context of repression but of defence on the part of Catalonia of the rights of democracy and freedom?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.124.0	Thank you, Congressman. And let me first thank you all this time spent here in Parliament. We will find that passionate verb missing with which you have always defended your positions. I wish you all the seats in the Congress of Deputies. [[Greetings.]] Indeed, part of his intervention..., I think the Socialist Party has a clear mandate for this result, and now we will know..., to which they like to play chess know that there is a famous opening, the Catalan opening; it is what we expect President Sánchez to do, eh? What do you know about what the Spanish citizens voted for, who voted to go back to where they left off: to the dial table, huh? And I think if President Sánchez does this Catalan overture and not the overture to do nothing, then I'm sure we'll get out of it. Because we won't disappear, we won't disappear from here. We're the deputies of the 21st of December, huh? , and we have another mandate, which is the 21st of December mandate, to ratify the first of October referendum. But you also have in your appearance, in your question, all the repression that we are living at these times. It is no longer a question of governments of the right or of the left; in fact, it is no longer a question of a state operation, and it is all worth it: it is the Central Electoral Board, it is the Court of Auditors, it is the higher courts, it is the Supreme Court, it is the Constitutional Court. It's all about criminalizing an idea and revenge – if I may also use that expression – so... a political revenge. Actually, it's no longer a state of law, it's a state of repression; it's not a democracy, but it's all done for the sacred unity of the country, and so it's all connected, and well connected. And now, effectively, you have the key to the unjust and extremely serious situation that our companies have in Jutjat 13, where you have to deposit an absolutely disproportionate bond, a bond that I agree with you..., and I also make this appeal to all the citizens who participate in it, who work together, that help the companies that made it possible for the people of Catalonia to self-determine; it is almost a duty and a duty of all Catalans to work together. I know Catalonia won't fail, I know we'll help all these companies. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.125.0	Tell me, Mrs. Arrimadas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.126.0	Yes, Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.127.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.128.0	A few control sessions ago you took my floor, took my speaking time when I told Members not to get nervous. Right now Mr Gómez del Moral has just made the same exact phrase in his speech that I did, but you don't know if he was distracted or that, when he makes the same statement, he doesn't do the same thing. I would like to ask you what your criterion is for me to take away more than twenty seconds of intervention and Mr Gómez del Moral has done absolutely nothing in his speech. Can you explain it to the whole camera? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.129.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, I'm responding to my management of the Ple [[Funnel veils]] ... I'm in charge of the Ple, and that's what I do for every ple. On some occasions he'll like it better, on some occasions he'll like it less, but I'll be in charge of the plenary. Keep going. The next question... [[Inés Arrimadas García asks to speak.]] No, no, Mrs. Rimadas, go on. Next... [[Inés Arrimadas García intervenes without using the microphone.]] No, we're not going into a debate, Mrs. Arrimadas. The next question is the formula... Say'm, Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.130.0	On a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.131.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.132.0	I have just asked you for an explanation of what criterion you have followed to give the floor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.133.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, we won't be in a debate and you don't have to ask me for explanations. You don't have the word. [[Question to the President of the Generality on how to deal with the democratic crisis in the Spanish State]] [[317-00097/12]] Mr. Batet. The question is posed by Mr Batet, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya. When you want, Mr. Batet. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.134.0	Well, thank you, President Torrent, for all of you. Very honorable President Torra, it is obvious that the Spanish State, that the Spanish monarchy saw a difficult democratic crisis. Some powers of some political, media, economic parties try to store the evidence; but reality is very rough, as it is the democratic crisis that the Spanish State has seen. To the police repression of October 1st we must add the police repression of the Jutjat of the 13th, with people affected also from an economic point of view; we must add political prisoners, prisoners who are now deputies of the Congress of Deputies and senators who are in prison because they are political prisoners and who demand their freedom, and we must add the exiles. And now we have to add the facts a few weeks ago. We have seen how attempts have been made to challenge the candidacy of our political formation, of Juntes per Catalunya, to the European elections, trying to challenge the political rights of President Puigdemont, of Councillor Comín, of Councillor Ponsatí; and more by putting up with the wheels and forcing us to resort to these elections without equal conditions. Moreover, we have seen how you yourself, President Torra, join the reprisald presidents of Catalonia: President Mas – not to mention – with the Court of Auditors, etc., with his disqualification; President Puigdemont and all his government, and now you have also been charged with defending political rights and freedom of expression, the rights of the citizenry. We know that there is a great campaign against you and your government to store the government's action from day to day, because it is a government that more than ever has to govern to defend the rights of the citizenry. President, our parliamentary group will always accompany you, we will always accompany you, and so many times as the President of the Government of Catalonia needs to defend the rights and freedoms, because his rights and freedoms are the rights and freedoms of the people of Catalonia, the assembly of Catalans and Catalans. And we will persist, we will persist, and we will persist, because we know that we will continue to win. And in all areas, such as the Central Electoral Board, such as the Supreme Court, at international level. Because, after winning the legal battle in Belgium, Scotland, Switzerland and Germany, this time we also won a legal battle in the opposite camp, in Madrid, the Kingdom of Spain. President Puigdemont, who is not a fugitive – as they say and all judicial resolutions – will be a candidate for Europeans, despite Ciutadans and the People's Party. And that is why, Mr President, we ask you how you think we have to face the democratic crisis that the Spanish State sees.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.135.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.136.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Spain's justice is not that it's down by now: it's that it's down, it's down, it's down, it can't go down anymore. And, therefore, its prestige is absolutely non-existent, here and in any democratic country in Europe. That is why Minister Borrell has to spend thousands of millions of euros to be able to repay the image of Spain abroad; that is what we see every day. From this of Mr. Borrell's chiringuitos, the promoters of the chiringuito are never asked. [[the President of the]] But I don't know how to waste and embezzle money that the Spanish State does in order to be able, in some way, to pull the head in which it is an authentic derailment of Spanish justice. And our answer, what's to be at this point? The answer that has always been: democracy, democracy and democracy, because our playing field is this, and our way of acting, if the strategy is democracy, the tactics are the ballot boxes, and where there are ballot boxes, we vote. And, therefore, I am sure that in these own elections, before this tsunami of repression, there will be an authentic democratic tsunami that will be made again, as I said before..., but there is one who thinks that the independenceists will disappear, and the independenceists tend to multiply our choice again. And, therefore, in these own elections will go back to the same, to the towns and villages of our country, and to the European Parliament, independence will once again have a crippling victory, another victory more. Yes, yes, Mrs. Arrimadas, you will have another victory again, just as you went downhill, you are in liquidation proceedings in Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah. And, therefore, this is the way we have to pull forward. I would also like to thank you for your personal support. Indeed, I must go and declare, thanks to the complaint made to me by a group of this chamber, that its policy is this, to argue, to apply Article 155, to charge our institutions, to break society, but they do not get involved. They will never get married, they will always fail, because the people of Catalonia will never give support to those who want to break it and those who want to break it. I'm not going to court to defend myself from anything, I'm going to charge the State with violating our human rights. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.137.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the balance of his first year as the President of the Generalitat]] [[317-00092/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.138.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, next week is a year of your investiture, what do you do with your management at the head of the Generalitat of Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.139.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.140.0	Madam Member, waiting before your last question, I trust that your development is at the height of what has been so pleasant this year that we have passed together and, therefore, I expect your development.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.141.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.142.0	Luckily for you, this is not my last speech, it will be tomorrow, so today I will ask the President a question. But, really, you don't show so little skill that you're answering questions to the government, really, that is that you president of the Generalitat, we pay you the salary for that. Look, you can't make a management balance because you haven't done anything, you haven't done anything because of the problems of Catalans. Because you're the president of the loop, which works like a blindfold, because you don't want to see Catalonia, you don't want to see more than half the Catalans we don't want to separate. You don't want to see the damage you've done in our society that process that's a lie, it's a fake, and you know it. They do not want to see the social problems of Catalans: they do not want to see the barracks, they do not want to see the waiting lists of dependence, they do not want to see the lack of public day care, they do not want to see the problems of insecurity that Catalans have in many neighborhoods and in many streets of Catalonia. What has the Government done this year? I say this to you: to plug your friends in with a lot of effort, that it is very good for you, that it is never lacking; to flout the violence of the CoR, that in that you are also an expert; to give the Cross of Sant Jordi to a lady known for her xenophobia and repudiated by this very Parliament; but what has already been an indecency, even for you already, has been to bring the separatist delusion to the extermination camp of Mauthausen, a real shame. But do you know what you have done this year? Disobeying the courts. And I'm just telling you one thing, Mr. Torra, you start disobeying the courts and you end up running away from justice. I don't know if you aspire to be Puigdemont's roommate in that Waterloo runaway house. That's right – that's right –, fugitives from justice with pay at the end of the month, that for the processions we already know that..., that never lacks anything. Look, you're a president accused of disobedience; you're a president protected by a fugitive, and you're a president questioned by the Catalonian Parliament itself. Remove the yellow blindfold, Mr Torra, look at the social problems of Catalans, look at the social majority of Catalans that we are not independenceists. Look at the damage the process has done. And, above all, don't get confused – don't get confused. Do not confuse Catalonia with independence, but, above all, do not confuse Sánchez with Spain, because Sánchez is an elected president, but, of course, he is not up to the level of the great country that is Spain and that you are not going to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.143.0	Congresswoman... [[Greetings.]] To answer again... whenever you want, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.144.0	For a few moments I thought that I would disappoint us and not – no –, less bad, it was a good ending – it was a good ending. Miri, Mrs. Arrimadas, listen for a moment. [[Quiet.]] Do I feel that silence, Mrs. Rimadas? So this silence is what's left of his step for Parliament, the non-res. [[Greetings.]] The no-res. You didn't build anything, you didn't want to talk to anyone, you crept, you wanted to break, you wanted to break. You're anti-politics. You want this country the anti-country, that is, you want to apply..., the only policy you have for Catalonia is to apply Article 155 to it, that is, to charge your institutions. They have absolutely no plans and that is why they have failed. I said, I have a few control sessions, they have failed and they will continue to fail. You're in liquidation in Catalonia, and that's it. And look, besides, bad day to ask the last question, bad day, because I remember it, it seems to me that you entered this Parliament in 2012, so let's look at a couple of interesting figures. Xifra d'atur of 2012: 22,5_per_cent. Xifra d'atur april 2019 a Catalunya : 11,6_per_cent. Eleven points down in Catalonia, eleven points down. While you preach the apocalypse, this country has pulled forward – this country has pulled forward. [[Greetings.]] And look, there's only a few seconds left, but I'd like to ask you three favors. First, since you have only spoken of me during the campaign, including putting me there in the photo, in that pharystol of your company, of Mr Rivera, all the time there, in your debate, so now that you are going to Madrid, listen, enjoy and Madrid, from the rostrum of Parliament, talk about the problems of Catalonia, instead of talking about Mr Torra, talk about the problems of Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] First favor I ask you to read. Second–second–, according to the favor I ask you: take advantage of the days that remain, do politics. Come to Palau, come talk to me, come talk to me. Look, there's only one saying that says, "Freedom of speech and opinion, I hope this one can pass it. [[Rialles.]] And third, please, your collection of posters, links, etc., give it to the History Museum of Catalonia, because it will help us explain very well... [[Greetings.]] It'll help us explain very well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.145.0	Time's up. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.146.0	...how this town gained independence. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.147.0	...you don't have the word anymore. Thank you. [[Compliments of the budgetary assumption of the Parliament of Catalonia accumulated]] [[237-00003/12 and 237-00004/12]] After the control session, let's move to the second item on the agenda, which is the presentation and vote of the report on the compliment of Parliament's expenditure assumption of Catalonia on July 31, 2018, which we will jointly submit with the corresponding report on December 31, 2018. [[Widow's remorse.]] Before we begin this presentation, I would like to warn you that this point will be substantiated, as we have said, together with the following report, therefore, until 31 December. I, to introduce you, has the words of Mr Espinosa. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.148.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today's intervention is in the capacity of Speaker and on behalf of the other two Speakers elected for this Parliament, Mr Narcis Clara and Mr Marc Sanglas. Today I speak to explain the reports on the compliment of the assumption corresponding to the first and second semester of the fiscal year of 2018, before sub-metering 'the vote and, if ladder, to your approval for this plenary. All this I do as a compliment to the provision in Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. Allow me, once more, to thank the listener for the ease he gives us to the deputy interveners to do our job. For what it does in the 2018 budget, the first thing to take into account is the presupposition situation that has remained throughout the year 2018 and, therefore, the Parliament's budget has been the correspondent for the 2017 financial year. The initial charge amounted to EUR 53,650,703_. Presuppositional changes involving an increase in initial credit amounted to €6.038.193. Therefore, the defined assumption stood at EUR 59,688,896_. Well, who was the distribution for the different chapters? So to chapter I, salaries of the staff, has been of 28,026,115_euros, which represents 46.95_per_cent. Current expenditure on goods and services amounted to EUR 10,350,444, representing 17.34 of the total. Chapter IV, current transfers, stood at EUR 18,655,188, representing 31.25 of the total. Chapter VI, of real investments, has risen to 2,647,145_euros, representing 4.43_percent of the total. And finally, Chapter VIII, a variation of financial assets, has bid 10,000_euros, which represents 0.02 of the total. On July 31st, obligations for an import of EUR 34.095.990 have been recognised, which implies an execution of the presupposition of 57.12_per_cent. From 31 July to the closing date of the financial year, no other amending consignments involving an increase in initial credits have been processed. Consequently, the defined assumption was EUR 59,688,896, and its detail per chapter is the following. Staff remuneration has risen to €29,077,365, representing 48,71_percent of the total. Of Chapter II, current expenditure on goods and services amounted to EUR 9,725,448, representing 16.29 of the total. From these expenses I want to highlight the rendition of the authorising officers of the Members of Parliament and of the Members of Parliament, the rendition of the teams used for parliamentary administration, the parliamentary groups and the services of free access or linked to external persons: library, press room, etc. I also want to highlight the maintenance of the climate, the system of conferences and votes of audiovisuals, elevators, security systems. Also important is the Parliament Hall project; the Parliament, as you know, has expanded and restructured the educational activities it offers. Chapter IV, current transfers, represented an expenditure of EUR 18.328.938, representing 30.71_percent of the total. And chapter VI, real investments, with an amount of 2,545,145_euros, represents 4.27 of the total. From this chapter of investments, the most important expenses refer to investments in different computer programs, sub-administration of computer security machinery, printers, scanners, and investment in audiovisual equipment, and, finally, a game in real estate investments. As for Chapter VIII, a variation in financial assets, the import remained of deu_mil_euros, which represents 0.02 of the total. Well, of the total presumption, bonds have been recognised for an import of 57,751,799 euros, which implies an execution of 96,75_per_cent. And of this execution, therefore, in the chapter of staff have been 29_million euros; in the current expenses, around 8_million_i_mig. Transference..., this represents an execution of 89,15_per_cent. Of current transfers, 99.70_per_cent has been executed; of real investments 70.46_per_cent has been executed, and of the variation of funded assets 100_per_cent of the assumption has been executed. Well, of these bonds that have been recognized, how many have been paid already? The actual payments of bonds recognised during the financial year 2018, which amount to a total of 57,001,614_euros..., and remain pending to pay bonds recognised for 750,185_euros. It is to say that 98.70_percent of the recognised bonds have already been paid and that they remain to pay 95.50_percent respect the defined assumption. So once we have the obligations, what's left of us? Who's the Romanesque we have? Who are the novelists of what do we have? So this credential romant of what we have at our disposal is 1,937,097_euros, which represent 3,25_per_cent of the defined assumption. A part of these credits, of this 1,937.097, are credits linked to the execution of current contracts and are of an intangible character. The amount of these is €446,163. And, for another band, we have the import of the available credit romant, susceptible to transfer to the source of romants; it is 1,490,934_euros. Therefore, these are parties that we can logically take advantage of in the 2019 fiscal year. To the credit romant available, therefore, of 1,490,934_euros, we have to add a number of non-presumptive character entries collected during the financial year 2018, for an import of 70,674_euros, and together it constitutes a total import of 1,561,608_euros, transferable to the fund of romants. Finally, I want to highlight in the contract apartment the number of contract documents processed during the 2018 fiscal year. These have been eight, some of them formed by different lots and, therefore, likely to award to different bidders, and these shippers have been running during the 2018 fiscal year, and also during the 2019 fiscal year. Most of them are precisely multiannual shipments. These contracts are the result of a signed agreement for a total of four. They have been negotiated without advertising three, and with an open character, five. And with this, therefore, with these data, with this synthesis, and to a great extent, I have explained to them the performance report and the compliment of the presupposition of 2018, for which they ask, in my name and in the name of the group I represent, as in the name of the other two interveners and the groups they represent, their approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.149.0	Thank you, Mr. Spiny. Once the presentation is completed, ask them if they can approve both reports by consent. [[Pause.]] If someone's listening to me... can they approve the two reports by consent? [[Rialles.]] All right. [[Several Members are asking to speak.]] Okay. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, yes, I've seen it – I've seen it. So, tell me... I'm asking for the word... there's no expected turn of interventions... or yes; there would be an intervention of a minute and a half, if they wanted to rule on the contents of the reports. For the CUP Subgroup - Constituent Cry...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.150.0	Yes, thank you, President. Simply to demonstrate our feeling of vote, which will be a abstention, in consonance... as we have done in the other presupposed exercises, in the other reports. It is not a technical error of the reports; we understand that the reports are absolutely correct at the technical level, but we, in accordance with our position against the premises of Parliament, will refrain from respecting these two points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.151.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Therefore, this demonstration, we will have to vote on the reports. Therefore, we call for a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, we'll get to the vote, then. We shall vote in the first place l'Report on the compliment of the expenditure assumption of the Parliament of Catalonia on 31 July 2018. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. The report dated 31 July 2018_has been approved by 123 votes in favour, against and 3 abstentions. Let's now vote on the report on December 31, 2018. The vote begins. The second report, namely, on 31 December 2018, was approved by 123 votes to none, with 3 abstentions. Therefore, the reports on the completion of the expenditure presupposition of the Parliament of Catalonia on 31 July and 31 December 2018 are approved. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 6/2008, of May 13, of the National Council of Culture and Arts]] [[202-00047/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the proposal for a single reading before the Plenum of the Law Amendment Bill 6/2008, May 13, the National Council of Culture and Arts. In accordance with Rule 138.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress called for a single reading of this legislative initiative. According to the criteria established for the Bureau, a first debate and vote are required because the Plenary agrees, if you choose, to proceed with this bill's proposal for the single reading procedure. The debate therefore has to revolve around the enabling assumption of Article 138.1 of the Rules and the general value of the text, opportunity, principles and criteria that inform the proposal, following the rules of the debate to the totality of Articles 116.1 and 138.3 of the Rules. Therefore, in this first debate it will give a turn of two minutes for the proposed group, in this case the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, and five minutes for the rest of the groups and, obviously, two and a half minutes for the parliamentary subgroups. Therefore, in the first place has the word the deputy Mr Rafel Bruguera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.152.0	Mr President, honourable Councillor, Members and Members, a cordial greeting also to Mr Carles Duarte, President of the Conca, and to Mrs Isona Passola, also of the Conca, who accompany us in this debate. Law 6/2008, of the National Council of Culture and Arts, approved the year 2008 with a broad agreement, with a broad political, social, and also in the sector, in the world of culture, which in our country is not entirely easy. But the presuppositions will come soon: at the end of three years, Councillor Mascarell, through the omnibus laws, violated the first important retaliation to the Conca; after that, the laws of fiscal and financial measures, the accompanying laws to the presuppositions of 2014 and 2015. The Conca was distorted in good part and reduced, from our point of view, to the minimum expression; practically only as an organism of protocol and analytics evaluating cultural policies. In order to address this substantive debate, it is to say, that of the future of the Conca, the last legislature, and on the precise proposal of our parliamentary group, it was created a working group in this house to analyze, to debate, to think about the future of the Conca, which I myself had the honour of being its rapporteur. The work is to be carried out but only pending approval of the conclusions at the time the chamber was dissolved. We have been pleased that today we have been able to make this debate, this substantive debate, this debate to rethink among all and try to give new content, new responsibilities and new competitions to the Conca. But unfortunately we have to solve two urgent issues, urgent, if we do not want him to die, to be settled by starvation or by inaction of the government. In the first place, the renewal of the seven members of its plenary. You all know that from the 21st generation he's been in a situation of paralysis, of which we've been warning and reporting for a long time. Since this day, the plenary is only composed of three of its seven members, and this situation affects the quorum necessary to make valid agreements on the part of the plenary, since, as you also know, for the constitution of the council it is necessary the presence as at least three members, including the presidency. There's been a counselor and two counselors. Three times he has applied to parliamentary groups that propose names. We have done so, we have fulfilled our obligations and our responsibility, and it is clear to us that many, the majority, I don't know if all, but most of the rest of the parliamentary groups too. Who has not done the dues, deputies and deputies, is the Government, because, unlike other bodies, the competence to propose to the Plenary of Parliament the names that must form the plenary of the Correspondence Conca, is the responsibility and competence of the President of the Generality of Catalonia. We ask the government, therefore, to take on their responsibilities, their skills and obligations and in a few days we can clear the doubts that have arisen over the government's last will for what it does to the Conca. And the second, the second great urgency, which we are debating today, to amend the Law of the Conca with two very concrete objectives: firstly, to avoid that the current situation is repeated again in the future, and to resolve the impasse in which it is found today, or in which we find ourselves today, and that the Conca can continue to develop with normality its functions, its obligations, that it has commissioned this chamber, until the renewal is produced, that we hope it will be soon, of its members. Given the government's inaction on a problem that is coming – I repeat: what is coming – and that we have..., of which we have repeatedly warned in this house, the Parliament, to respect counsel and advisors and also to communication media, our parliamentary group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance, decided to take the initiative through this proposal, this proposed law amending the Law of Creation of the Conca. The proposed law basically consists of two articles and a transitional arrangement. Article 1 amends paragraph 3 of Article 6 of the Law, incorporating that the Presidency of the Generality has a maximum period of two years from the termination of the members of the Council to raise the proposal for a list of substitutes; it is, in other words, to put the President of the Generality in a position because if this circumstance is to happen again, it will not be the same day but it will have a concrete period to formulate the proposal to the plenary of the Parliament. Article 2 provides that, in any case, if the Presidency of the Generality does not complete the previous article, the members of the plenary of the Conca may continue to exercise office until the following members are elected. And finally there is a transitional arrangement, which would only be applicable in the current situation, and it is that the members who cease and cannot be renewed on the 21st of generation can continue in their charge until the members are elected, that is to say that the Conca, since it comes, which I hope is tomorrow, this proposal of law until the Parliament, on the proposal of the President of the Generality, elects the members of us, that we also hope that it will be, if it can be, hours or days, so that we can continue to exercise, the Conca, their functions normally. And, finally, for what it does to single-read processing, just justify it with two criteria. First of all, because it is a very punctual – very punctual – and very concrete modification of the Law of the Conca, and, second of all, because of the urgency, which seems to me not to extend to me, because I have already expressed it at the length of my intervention, the urgency to resolve the current situation and allow that, even though it is in the interim, it can continue to exercise its functions. For our parliamentary group, for us, the National Council for Culture and the Arts is a basic, foundational body in the cultural policy of our country. And, therefore, we have modestly tried to deal with it - from the very beginning, we have tried to work together, and it seems to me that the Councillors and Councillors can say this, beyond our function, obviously, of impulses, criticism and control of the Government, which, in part, is what we are today, proposing a solution, even though it is a moment, given the inopportunity, given that the Government, as in other cases, as in other questions, also in matters of culture, unfortunately, does not govern, but is prioritising other questions. I hope that the parliamentary groups will support it, first of all, today in one reading, and tomorrow, with approval, if the case is given, of the items, so we can approve this proposal for law, turn it into law, and therefore it will be applied from tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.153.0	Thank you, Congressman. It's the turn of the groups to position themselves on the initiative. And in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Hector Amello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.154.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, look, this is certainly not the debate that the Conca deserves. It is clear that the Council of Culture and Art needs us to rethink the model. The question we should answer is: what role does Conca have to play in Catalonia's cultural and artistic system? This is the debate that we should be putting forward here today; a debate on the model, a debate on the substance, on the functions, on how to get the Conca precisely to fulfil the functions that it has legally entrusted, and to do so effectively, and that it is decisive, and that it has influence to mark the strategic lines of culture and art of the coming years in Catalonia. But instead of that in-depth debate on how to improve the model, what the PSC proposes to us today is to modify a couple of points of the law so that the current positions, which are appointed by finger and whose mandate has expired, can continue in a vital way or until the presidency of the Generalitat decides to renew them. Look, I think we have a name for this amendment of this law, and I think we could call it « the Passola law, a modification that allows a person who deeply hates Spain and despises constitutional voters to be perpetuated in office until the government decides, which is characterized precisely by this: deeply hate Spain. What the PSC is telling us with this amendment proposal is that, as the government is unable to propose a list of people to replace the current council, as they would have to do, because they change a couple of joints and thus help them get out of trouble. But I wonder: do you believe that this government, the separatist parties, do you care to comply with the Law of the Council of Culture and Art? If it is these parties that have given a coup d'état. Do you really think you're worried about meeting a couple of little bits of the Conca Act? But do you really believe that these parties that have put at risk the freedoms and rights of all Catalans are concerned with complying with this minimal modification that you propose? I think they obviously don't; they don't care the least. What's more, you're doing them a great favor, which I'm not surprised about either. You propose, in this amendment of the law, to include a transitional provision which reads as follows: "Exceptionally, members who have exhausted their term of office on 21 January 2019 may continue to hold office until the new members are elected. And I wonder: have you really not realized that the separatist parties have very little interest in renewing the members of the Conca, that some members have had the exhausted term of office for years, that have not been able to propose any proposal for renewal? Do they not really realize that this amendment of the law conceals that legally irregular situation which they are just about to denounce in the proposal? What happens here is again that the PSC is whitening Mr. Torra's inaction, and every time the separatist parties have a problem, however small it may be, because there is the PSC to get them out of trouble. Look, the current Government has full capacity to propose a list of council members. If he does not propose it, he has not done it, it is because it is a weak government that is not here to govern, that does not seem to have the capacity to renew the council of the Conca. If you have so much interest in using your finger to renew the Conca, you just have to catch up and reach an agreement with the separatist parties and you will have renewed the council; agree between you which friends you want to place on the council and ready, and you have solved it. They just have to bake a little bit and come to an agreement. You plus the separatist parties are an absolute majority, enough to renew the council. But, look, don't count on us. What we want is precisely to eliminate the fingers and we also want to eliminate the fingers to choose the members of the Conca. What we in Citizens want is for the plenary to be chosen by a public contest, through objective tests, where what is especially important is merit and capacity, where any citizen who is considered prepared has the opportunity to present himself. That is precisely what we want this law to contain: a contest to elect the members of the plenary. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.155.0	On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, the honourable Member Concepción Abellán has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.156.0	Good morning. This is my first speech in this plenary, so I take this opportunity to greet all Members, the Bureau and the President. The proposal for a single reading law that has brought the PSC to today's plenary session is the result of two things: the abnormal situation in which the Council of the Conca is today, with only three members, and, of course, the leniency of governance and its inability to anticipate it. With regard to the first, the proposal is technical, it completes a lack of procedure in the law, and, as such, we believe that it should be done in a single reading in order to be able to incorporate it with agility. But, said this, we must be aware that this is one more of the urgent measures that must be taken to compensate for the neglect of the Torra-Aragonès government. Former Councillor Borràs said in February that the council would be renewed immediately – that I would already like to know what it is for her to be "immediate" – and that the important thing was not to know how, but for what. A little cynicism, don't you think? You loaded the Conca in 2011 with your omnibus law and eight years later you continue to ignore that it exists and let it die. They emptied him of competences and autonomy, attended the resignation as a bloc of the plenary of the entity, which accused them of generating a political and cultural involution, and it seems that time does not pass. Of the EUR 11_million allocated to the Conca, it is defended today with EUR 1_million. Of the 2_per_cent budget in culture that they were asked from the Parliament remained in 0.7_per_cent. They have not even been able to predict that the council would run out of members for the plenary. Do you know what it takes to make... what the Conca needs? It needs a government that believes in culture, a government that wonders what needs to be done and what needs to be changed in the Conca to democratize culture; a government that bets on culture as a social right and not as a privilege for the elites; a responsible government that understands that it is necessary to generate a policy of promoting artistic creation outside the political context. Let us unlock the current situation of the Consell del Conca, let us generate a more agile instrument so that this will not be repeated again, but let us not remain in the formalities. The Conca was a demand of the sector to depoliticize culture and you have never institutionalized it. The 2018 Social Dimension of Culture report notes that there are broad layers of society excluded from cultural life. It is more necessary than ever to strengthen the profile of the Conca and to link it to Parliament, to democratise culture and to enhance it as a tool of social cohesion that adapts to the new ways of generating and consuming culture of young people and young women, and addresses society as a whole and not only at certain levels of income. From Catalunya in Comú Podemos we have placed all the groups to recover the working group for the modification of the Conca in the Committee of Culture and return the culture to the place it deserves. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.157.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the Member of the House of Commons has the word Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.158.0	Good morning, President. We'll position ourselves from here, from the escó. Simply to position ourselves in relation to what we will now vote on the single reading. Given the natural nature of the process set up by the PSC, we will facilitate this single reading process. Tomorrow we'll have more time to get into the debate, but just make a point. It is curious as the Conca, which is known and known to everyone who has a political council in the cent_per_cent..., it is a paradigmatic example of what we are used to calling the "socio-vergency, the classic" socio-vergency, and as it goes in this case... – and I will make it serve in honor of the last day of the President of Ciuta in the concept of the "xiringuit" – it is a paradigmatic example of the "PSC and Convergencies that we have used to, as politicizing public bodies. We'll go deeper into this question tomorrow. In this case, however, we will facilitate your unique reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.159.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word "Mr. Alejandro Fernández".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.160.0	Thank you, President. I will also address myself from the point of view, first of all, that what we are voting on right now does not cease to be if the proposal is natural as it is to be dealt with in a single reading, which we consider to be so. So, effectively, we will harvest it. This does not mean, in fact, that some of the debates that have taken place before, so they cannot be dealt with tomorrow too, and ask us some questions. The first is if there is a legal void, which the Socialist Party's proposal tries to cover. Yeah. But this does not mean, in fact, that there is no need to produce a broader debate on the Conca, which has experienced a process of degradation of its prestige, in the later years, which is not deserved. I therefore believe that, beyond what we are voting on and which we agree on in relation to this proposal, which is intended to cover a very concrete legal void, it is indeed necessary to address the debate much more broadly in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.161.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jenn Díaz has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.162.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Welcome, the companies of the Conca, Mr. Duarte and Mrs. Passola. Well, a few months ago we had..., presented the report to us by Mr Carles Duarte to the Committee on Culture and we already said that the Conca was conceived as an institution inspired by the Anglo-Saxon model of the Council arts with the conviction that it could maintain the policy of promotion and expansion of culture on the margins of government changes and that it gave us this visit from outside the government day to day. A culture, like that of our country, which drinks of so many fonts, which is dynamic and plural and which represents a diverse people, we understand that it needs a perspective that does not subject to institutional powers. And that this freedom of the Conca makes it more stable, does not subject to change, as the same presentation of the body says. Precisely for this reason it was so important to give out to the blocking situation of the plenary, with members with the expired or expired mandate. And the modification proposed by the Socialists and Units Parliamentary Group to move forward helps unlock and, therefore, what we make the groups that we support the government is to join us - not just there. We will talk about tomorrow, because we are voting today for the single reading and, in the second part of the debate, we are going to get more into the content, but we would certainly like to move forward, and bearing in mind that in this first intervention we have all entered, that the proposal for papers that we will present to the parliamentary groups that we support to the Government have a single intention, that is to extend the regular march to all the members of the Conca and not just to a part of them, as perhaps in the first proposal to amend the law, so it remained that way. We believe that the plenary is a whole and, therefore, the proposed changes would apply to all equally, as much as they have the mandate expired since 2016 as they did this year, so as not to make differences, and to help ensure our stability. With regard to the renewal of the plenary, it is clear from the Council's new appointment that the Council wishes to draw up a list of the cultural sector, which is diverse, professional and sectoral, and which, despite the fact that it is in the department, has been set up. And, finally, and keep in mind that this return of the word responds, as I say, to the single reading and to a more aviated procedural question, little to add; tomorrow we will already enter, we will make this modification. Tomorrow we will come back, we will vote for it, but we are aware that its effects will be useful for the proper mandate, as it was already advancing, the interest of the very honourable Councillor, the Government and our group is to make the renewal of the Council of the Conca as soon as possible. And we hope that the new members are designated with common interest, that of the culture of this country, that the different cultural sectors are well represented and that their names do not respond only to partisan interests, as the opposition accuses. We do not care that the plenary is reproducing parliamentary dynamics, we want the Conca to do its work on consensus, negotiations and agreements as, for another band..., – and I take this opportunity to say here, that it seems that the confrontation when we arrive at this faristol is guaranteed – as, for another band, as I say, we work with the Committee on Culture, that we work on agreements and negotiations. Prioritize that culture, that the cultural model of the country advances, that is what suits everyone. For this reason, we will vote in favour of the single reading, in order to speed up its proceedings. We understand that they are more technical and that they do not affect the foundation of the functioning of the Conca, but we would like to insist on a subject that we consider essential, the new Council of the Conca must be professional and answer to strictly cultural interests. The Conca will no longer be useful if we want to condition it and coerce it from the institutions and turn it into the umpteenth ideological battle as it seems that the opposition has come from this Faristol. We deserve a strictly cultural coat of arms that we do not reproduce those dynamics that we have often found in this House, not so much in the committee, but from this Faristol. Therefore, the Republican Group will vote in favour of it and we will continue to talk about the Conca content tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.163.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And, finally, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.164.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Mrs Borràs, Members and Members, President Torrent reminded us, the Bureau's agreement to proceed with the single reading procedure tells us that a first debate and vote is to be held because the Plenary agrees, if you choose, to proceed with the proposal of the law and the debate must revolve around the subject enabling Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. This article 138 tells us that a draft law can be dealt with directly and in a single reading by Parliament's plenary or by a committee if the nature of the draft advises it. And, certainly, the nature of the project advises it because, if not, we could derive in some unusual circumstances not foreseen by law. And, therefore, we would be or are in an irregular situation. You also foresee that, apart from the nature of the project..., if the simplicity of the formulation allows it. I. Obviously. We are also in this case: the simplicity of the formulation allows it. The proposal to amend the law that the Socialist Group and Unites for Moving Forward with us is practically a technical reform. And now what it is just to solve this unusual situation, not foreseen by law and, with simplicity of formulation, to apply precisely this technical reform that I gave them. This change in law seeks to address this legal irregularity and, therefore, we will obviously vote in favour of it. The Conca we have treated the Committee on Culture several times – I take advantage to greet the members of the Conca we have here, Mr. Duarte and Mrs. Passola – and it seems to me that today is not exactly the best time to debate its functions; this, in the committee we have done and believe that, certainly, this government, Mr. Bruguera, does govern. Councillor Borrás and Councillor Vilallonga have met with people to deal with this matter, with members, with officials, with members of the culture and with spokespersons for this Parliament. Therefore, we are on top of the government and we want to resolve this situation. In the later Committee on Culture – if I don't remember correctly – we have already agreed, as the change of law, today or tomorrow, we will finish – I hope – agreeing..., we have already agreed that it is an urgent renewal of the renewal of the members. We can say, therefore, that the next step will be just that – and we hope that it will not be far there – to propose the list of new names of the members of the Conca. This government rules, Mr. Bruguera. This law proposal, for another band, will also allow us to resolve this situation of certain interim offices that the members who have expired, so, today, do not have... is not well resolved in the formulation of the current law. If we take parallelisms in other bodies, in the Parliament or in the Government, therefore, in the Parliament, we have that the Union of Accounts, its Plenary is formed by seven syndics that the Parliament designates for a period of... seems to me to be six years, and that they cease by expiration of the mandate and that they just continue to exercise the functions at the core while they do not take possession of the new syndics or syndics. It is also the same case of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation; the members of the Board of Governors cease when their term of office ends, but they continue to exercise the functions, which is what they correspond until the possession of our advisors. And it's also the case of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia. Therefore, what we will do with this law proposal is to adapt the Conca to the rest of the bodies, to solve this inter-initiation and – as Mrs Diaz said – to ask, help, collaborate to hold a Conca strongly, with all its functions in the cultural landscape and, therefore, we will give support to this young man and tomorrow we will continue the debate from the points of view. A lot of mercy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.165.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings. Pause.]] Call it a vote. Well, let's proceed to the vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] The record that the vote is in accordance with the convenience or not of processing for single reading of this bill's proposal. The votes in favour, of course, are in favour of this one-reading procedure and the votes against, which are unfavourable to the one-reading procedure. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The single reading of this bill has been approved by 90 votes in favour, against and 37 abstentions. In view of this result, therefore, and in accordance with Article 138.1 of the Rules of Procedure, the Law amending Law 6/2008, of 13 May, of the National Council of Culture and the Arts will, as we have said, be dealt with for a single reading before the plenary. I inform you that, according to the criteria granted to the Bureau, the deadline for the submission of both papers to the total as well as to the papers to the joint ends today at the end of the late meeting, and that once this deadline is over, it will take a long time in this same plenary session – that is to say, tomorrow – the debate of the papers to the totality and the joint in a single act, therefore, in a single debate, with a common turn of five minutes for the parliamentary and two-and-a-half groups for the sub-groups. As I said, this debate will take place tomorrow, you said, at the end of the debate to the totality of the proposal for the law of ports and transports in sea and continental waters. [[Question to the Government on the situation of special work centres]] [[300-00124/12]] That said, we follow the order of the day. The next point is the question to the Government about the situation at the special work centres, an question that is formulated, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, by Mr Raúl Moreno. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.166.0	Thank you, President. Honorable Councillor Chakir El Homrani, deputies, deputies, first of all I want to greet the people who accompany us from the rostrum, guests, representatives of various special work centres in Catalonia. Some entities, Mr. Counsellor, that carry from the end of the year 2018 worried about their future; in fact, they carry much more time worried about their future, for the future of the 15,721 workers and workers to the special work centers in Catalonia. They have made a campaign entitled "Deu years of oblivion, and the sector, therefore, is mobilized, concerned about its future, why it will be theirs and its continuity. The sector demands both the Government of Spain and the Government of Catalonia for sure, before a situation that is critical. Not criticizing since the month of December, not criticizing from the increase of the interprofessional minimum wage; we were already coming from before, from this critical situation. But it is true that the minimum interprofessional wage, therefore, has made it even more difficult in this sector. And, therefore, claim to the two governments... Let's go to pams; in the first place, for what he does to the Government of Spain. The legislative competence over special work centres is state. The Generality has the executive competence, which includes the regulatory authority and the executive function of the applicable legislation. It is the Sectoral Conference of Work, where the Generality is represented, which grants the necessary funding for each autonomous community in relation to its employment policies. For this year 2019, Mr. Counsellor, you will be able to dispose of 100_million euros for the payment of 50_percent of the interprofessional minimum wage to persons with disabilities, twice the year 2018. And I will quickly detail these imports. The sectoral conference is dedicated to Catalonia 336_million euros; it is the second autonomous community more than the sectoral conference, after Andalusia. For eix 3, the employment promotion, is for 69,4_million euros, 20_million euros more than the year 2018. In addition, you have EUR 12.1 million allocated to any of the employment promotion programmes. More than EUR 83 million will be allocated, in addition, between the autonomous communities to finance the promotion of other employment programmes, of which we understand that, for the low band, Catalonia would have between EUR 17 and 20 million. If there is already, as I say, the low strip, Catalonia will have €98.5 million to secure the contracts to the workers and workers of the special work centres. It's twice as much, I insist, as it was in 2018. But there's still more. There is a commitment, from this sectoral conference, to increase the minimum interprofessional wage from 50 to 55 per cent for people working in special special hardship work centres, and this is an increase that will be made, as you know, in a later payment of October. In summary, Mr. Counsellor, you will have 100_million euros to guarantee the names of the 15,700 disabled workers in Catalonia, from the sectoral conference. I'm not saying: I can prove it to the Official Butllet of the State on April 12, 2019. Now, Mr. Counselor, you can allocate these funds to ensure the continuity of TECs or you can allocate them to other labour policies. You have the possibility to do it, it's legal, actually it's what they're doing during these years; it can be used for these policies or for others. You have to prioritize, it's your job, but in any case it won't be a problem of financing state funds, that this year 2019, in a scenario of presuppositional prorogation, has been able to double the presuppositional allocation in this case for Catalonia. As it is also a decision of its government not to pay 50_percent of the minimum interprofessional wage to persons with physical disabilities. While holding the right to collect it, Mr. Counselor, only pays them 25_percent of the SMI. I don't just say it: the entities say it and the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia say it in firm judgments respect the calls of the years 2014 and 2015, and the following are still pending judgment. I insist, your government is denying people with physical disabilities the half of your SMI's grant they have recognized for the law, while claiming 75_percent of the minimum interprofessional salary from the special difficulties, and I also welcome your change of opinion, because your party voted against June 1, 2017, precisely, of this point, when we presented our Socialist Parliamentary Group a motion in this plenary. Now you present it as a motion for a resolution, whenever – yes – you pay Madrid. And, of course, do you... I would recommend that you do like the Balearic Islands: that if you want a model suitable for, català, special work centres, I think you will also have to look for the way to do it and pay for it. Mr. Counselor, I want your commitment that you will allocate these 100_million euros of the sectoral conference to pay the names of the workers and workers of the special work centres in Catalonia. You have the resources to do it, and so what you ask is that you prioritize people with disabilities. We could have allocated 100 million more euros if his party had allowed us, as at least, to process the general assumptions of the State; but they decided that no, they took the same decision as Ciutadans and the People's Party. Result: neither presuppositions in Madrid nor presuppositions in Catalonia, since they have not been officially presented to them. Now, two years of oblivion go beyond the minimum interprofessional wage, and these are your government's decisions, and I believe that the critical situation deserves clear answers for your side, and I could take advantage of your turn. You announced that you would allocate €42.5 million to the special work centres and with this – false – argument that you usually use that we are the only autonomous community that we have money for the special work centres, and that is not – that is not it – you know it perfectly. Still, I welcome it, very well, you have 42.5 million euros; but you need to move from the announcement to the execution. Mr. Counsellor, when will you pay the outstanding bills of the years 2018 and 2019 to the special work centers? Because you haven't paid yet. You give them the 50_percent of the SMI of the year 2018, of the month of December; you give them the extra pay of the year 2018; you give them the 20_percent of the USAPs of the year 2018, and naturally, if you haven't paid 2018, you haven't paid either generation, nor fever, nor March, nor April, nor May of 2019. And that has consequences. Miri, yesterday's mail from the director of the Private Foundation Iris, of Sant Vicenç dels Horts, who says: "Today we have not yet received the SMI grant of the month of September 2018, neither of gener, nor of fever, March, April of this year 2019, nor the rest of the USAPs. As a result, we have not been able to pay professional names, and banking entities no longer recognize the Administration as a swallower, as it used to. So they don't give us credit. This is the situation that some special work centres are going through. If the Generalitat doesn't pay December 2018, it's not the Government of the State's fault. Only with the agreement of the sectoral conference could they have paid, as do other autonomous communities. For what it does in the year 2019, on March 8, the Council of Ministers approved the order of distribution. In fact they can pay from the month of fever, from the agreement of the sectoral conference. Why do you publish an order at the end of the month to febrile with 45_million euros– for sure, 5_million euros more than the year 2018–, when you could have published it of 69_million euros, as marked by the eix 3 of the sectoral conference? Why do you contribute to the funding of centres? Will it also increase the financing rates of the service? Yes or no? And when? Because we're already carrying a few years of promises. And, speaking of when, when will you recover the subsidies for the reversal of the special work centres that have been retailing since 2012, the ones that were there for creation, for balance to finance, for management support, for the adaptation of work places? When are they gonna do it? We need, Mr. Counsellor, a clear planning of the special work centres, which give security, which give legal status to the sector. Menys promised by our Catalan models that they may arrive. By the way, how many years are we wearing, counselor, with the renewal of the so-called Catalan model of special work centres? What do we do, counselor, with the premature aging of the workers and workers of the special work centres? What residential and care resources do they have? How do we assure them of good conditions of aging, inside, but also outside, of special work centers? If the alternative to the special centres is the insertion of the ordinary enterprise, how will it be done? With the April 2017 plan? With the agreement of the Labour Relations Council of 2018? Sure, where are we going? Where are we going? Miri, Mr. Counsellor, I don't know how many months of government we have left, you certainly don't know; in fact, no one here knows. What is clear is that, with this tradition of making choices every two years, what we are causing is an institutional paralysis, the creation of plans that are never completed and never implemented. It cannot be, Counselor, that we receive drawings of maps of special work centres with phrases like: « More than six thousand people throughout Catalonia we went out to the street to make us listen, but it seems that it is not enough, because until today we have not received any response from the heads of the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families. Dialogui, Mr. Counselor, with the whole sector...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.167.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.168.0	... and it will be the only way – I finish, President – to be able to find solutions to a very difficult, very critical situation of the special work centres in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.169.0	To answer the word has the advisor Lord The Homrani. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.170.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies and deputies, to see, go by order; I think that's the best way to do it. At the end of last year, there was a good news; there was a good news, a partial news, a news that continues to show that the Spanish State does not complete what it signs, because it continues without fulfilling the criteria that mark the European Social Charter, but a positive news, which was the increase in the minimum wage. I recall that we do not comply with the criteria of the European Social Charter and that we do not continue to comply with them: 60 % of the average wage. But this good news, a good news that has even proved to be for some who say that this would be a brake on the growth of the occupation, with the last data of the time... how it could have grown up in the occupation. But, as always, when you make decisions, and especially from the realm of execution, you have a responsibility, that is to know all the derivatives, all the derivatives of the decision you make. And one of the derivatives of the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage is around the subsidisation of the interprofessional minimum wage in the protected work in the special work centers, which is not taken into account. And I think it's palms that didn't take into account because since then we've been talking to the state government and the day of today – today we're on May 7th, can it be? [[pause]] May 8th – on May 8th, the sectoral conference that was to be convened in April, which I also remember was a compromise of the Secretary of State with the entities of the special work centres, and this compromise that it would be called in April..., we see that we are on May 8th and that it is not yet called. I believe that a clearer example of what is an erratic management, which does not take into account all the consequences of its decision, is that of the special work centres. Because we're on May 8th, this sector conference hasn't been convened yet, and we have the denial and concern of the special work centres. And I think we're always in touch with the special work centers. And what's more worrying is not this negit: it's the vulnerable people who work in the special work centers, which is the concern we all have to have. Before that, let's make a decision as the government of the Generality, with the limitations we have – it can be shared or it cannot be shared; in this, each one... –, let's make a decision, before an anomaly..., because I remind you, Mr Moreno, that it is an anomaly that we intend to grant the minimum salary of the CETs, because, you have said, it is the competence of the State, and, if I want to remind you of all the rules, the royal decrees that mark it. He's always apostatized and he's made himself very clear... and we don't have a problem making money, but let's make a quick decision, because we're on May 8th, and we haven't called the sectoral conference yet. And we take the decision of the generation of, apart from the 35_million euros that we set aside for propitious funds, to increase 7_millions_i_mig of euros; the 22_percent that increases the minimum interprofessional wage, with which we go to 42_millions_i_mig. And yes, it's an anomaly and we're the only territory that's dedicated to it. And that's all right, because we have a different texture; because we have a fabric that is frozen in the territory; because we have a texture that gives opportunities to people who in other areas of the State do not work in special work centers; they are in occupational services, etc., those that call themselves special difficulties. We do this exercise, and we do the exercise of advancing the convocation, a convocation that is usually done in April, we advance it to the fever. And we're working around this, and we're talking to the state government. And I'm surprised by some of the data he gave, I mean... because someone doesn't explain the whole truth or we don't know what we're talking about. And to begin with, not to explain the whole truth is to say that you will convene a sectoral conference in April and be at 8 May without being called. To begin with, we have placed this topic at the sectoral conference on fever. Personally, I told the minister. Don't listen. The negit also responds with time. They're not going to be coverts. You say we have 100 million euros. Right now, they're not there. I don't know where it came from, but they're not there. And that's it, and that's it because... I'll explain it to you; and I'll explain to you all the resources that are to be distributed at your own sectoral conference; 341_million euros will be distributed throughout the state. The distribution proposal that it makes is: EUR 80_million for strengthening guidance; EUR 7_million_i_mig, for issues of union formation; EUR 64_million_i_mig for other proposals and, you have said, EUR 83_million for special work centres. Now, what he hasn't said is that, at the same time they say they're distributing this, they're telling us that out of this 341 million euros, 44 million euros will be left. That didn't explain it. Ah! And don't let them explain to us with what criteria they'll subtract. It's the communication of the ministry, well... the lord has responsibilities, and he goes to the sectoral conference, and he knows perfectly well how the ministry communicates: 44_millions, which they didn't say. Even so, it does an exercise that still – if I may – is more mind-blowing. Tell us: of these 83... – that we don't know if it will be 83, because we don't know if of these 44 that will remain, they will stay at the special work centers – tell us, they will be close to 17 or 20_million euros. Of course, I am grateful when we have a discussion and there is no way to get out of it - in, and you say that we will be allocated 17 or 20... Hey, to see, we have not yet, without knowing it, because we have asked ourselves, but they have said no, what will be said to the sectoral conference, that sectoral conference that has not yet been convened, that it should be called the April, that the Secretary of State, before the entities, says that it will be called the April..., therefore, you say, 17-20. God, no. Why? Why do we have a lifetime discussion, and there is no way, governments the PP or governments the PSOE, which is, how many disabled workers do we have in the system? And we distribute it according to the names of workers in the system. Catalunya represents 22,5. They always tell us that no, that the way to distribute it is according to the population of the autonomous community, of the territory. With this, or you make a lot of fun... I don't know where you're going, or I don't know where you're going at 17-20. We, right now, make a 12- and-a-half calculus, without knowing, of these 44 that are to be retracted, when they bring them back there, which is communicated that they are retracted. So that's it– that's it–, and we're on May 8th and the sectoral conference has not been convened. And you know perfectly well that the Royal Decree 2273/1985, which marks the financing of the special work centres is of the State, just as you know perfectly well that this, apart from, is already connected with the Ministerial Order of October 16, 98, where the theme of 50_per_cent is marked. Then he says to me: "It is that you..., that we have been the only ones who have made the effort and have already made the effort; that we have made the effort to speed up the timetable, and that we have already made the effort, because never had the calls come out in the fever, always went out in the April and went out in the fever, we are the ones who do not give certainty. And I told myself about the government that it hasn't called the sectoral conference yet, and that it committed itself to April. He's very, very curious. It's just that if he complicates his responsibility... it's not the 100_million, it's not the 100_million, it's not the end of it, and they can't add up, because even when he says they're looking for us 17-20 million, out of 83, and I'll explain the distribution criteria... you'll see how it won't be. Which doesn't add up to 100_millions, but its responsibility is 125_millions. It's all right. And we're spending 42 and a half, but these 42 and a half could also be used for other support items. But we'll keep doing it, and we'll keep working, hand to hand, with...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.171.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.172.0	...all the special work centers. Now, since you're in such a hurry, I'll ask you if you'd like me to, like at least, summon her—convoke her—that's the least they'd have to do on May 8th.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.173.0	For the reply, Mr Raúl Moreno has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.174.0	Counselor, I am very surprised that all your argument is whether a sectoral conference has been convened in May or April, because you have the one of disembarkation and the one of fever. With the sectoral conference of fever, you could have started paying, as the rest of the autonomous communities have done, which is the same as our meetings when you make the program contract and don't pay them at the hour. What do they do? Advance the money. That's what everyone understands – that's what everybody understands. And, therefore, you, with the publication of the BOE, can already pay these 100_million euros, which I do not believe. Miri, as his Government does not have contact with the special work centres and his information is absolutely eroded, we went, the representatives of the special work centres, to see the director general of the CET, in Madrid. And he explained to us, starting from one to the next, if we get out these 100_million euros. You, with the money from the sectoral conference, can allocate the money that you consider appropriate to the development axes that you think are appropriate. This allows the law; read the BOE, it's very easy. One other thing is that you don't want to target them. Another thing is that you are spending the 50_percent of the minimum interprofessional salary you have recognized for reading people with disabilities in other training programs. That maybe they're very important? I don't know, but that's what's going on. That's what's going on, many years ago, in this government. Look, if there's no sectoral conference in May, it's for a detail, there's elections. Why are there elections? Among other things, because you decided not to collect the general assumptions of the State. And, therefore, there will be a sectoral conference, but I insist, they cannot focus their argument only on this. Because you could advance the money perfectly. Says: « It is an anomaly to allocate funds that are likely to pay the SMI. It's just that I don't care, that I'm willing to pay the SMI. Please set aside the funds to pay what you give. Pay up, Mr. Counselor! Paid the SMI of September; paid the USAPs of the year 2018; paid the month of generation, fever, March, April; paid! This is what you have to do, and not just say: "No, it's that we have 45_million euros, or 42_million euros and a half. And why don't you pay them? And why doesn't he pay, did he ask? Say, man, it's not 100_million euros, these criteria. Miri, here are the criteria; as you did not clarify them, some entities have had to go to the Director General of SEPE, to explain the criteria to them. And I invite you to talk to the Madrid government, and talk to the state government, and explain how to get the minimum interprofessional wage. I, of course, do not say to me: "No, it is that we always have, here, the discussion of the criteria. Listen, if you think that there must be other criteria in the department, you can go over the table at the sectoral conference. Because, in the month of December, the criteria were laid down. And there were-there were criteria. If you have any other criteria set. Now, the criteria are established by the consent of the autonomous communities. And, therefore, I would like to know, you, with whom autonomous communities will be complicit, among other things, to demand that Catalonia pay 75_percent of the SMI to people with special difficulties when you are not paying 50_percent of the SMI to people with physical disabilities. That's not what you're talking about, is it? Counselor. That's why he doesn't talk about it and, besides, in the SMI band, to see if he can answer anything: when will the financing rates increase? That's his responsibility. When will you recover the grants that you have detailed for creation, for balance financing, for management support, for the adaptation of work places? When will he get them back? Doesn't that answer me either? Why do you publish an order to pay €45_million when you have €69_million in the box? It's just that they don't get along. What do we do with the premature aging of a worker from the special work centres, who must be in very advanced age, to the special work centres, why is there no alternative? Not so much housing, not so much residential. What do we do with insertion into the ordinary business? Why don't you talk to the sector? I am not asking you more than I am in front of a situation that makes 15,700 disabled workers in Catalonia, that are the figures that you pass to the Ministry, counselor, and the same ones that you used two months ago, when you were talking about proposals for the future, are the same figures as the number of workers that you pass to the Ministry. If there is more, pass the figures, pass the correct ones and receive the subsidy that corresponds to each person with disabilities in Catalonia. You've been triplers, from the point of view of financing, with the special work centers. If I call a new model, I'll start talking. Because, if not, what we're gonna do is that, you know, this is always about blaming other people when things go wrong... At the end of the day, it's the disabled person, that the only alternative you have, in 80_percent of the cases, is to work in a special work center in Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.175.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the reply, the word has the advisor Mr. Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.176.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselors, advisors, deputy. As I see that you're talking about trillers, I'll tell you straight away that you're lying. Because, when they met the centres, with one side, a representation of the special work centres, and they told them that there would be a sectoral conference in April, elections were already called. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no, it's not the same, it's what you say: "No, there is no sectoral conference in April, because there are elections. When you promised that the April would be a sectoral conference, the elections were already called. That's what you tell him to lie to, or cynicism. I don't know what's worse, lying or being cynical. It's cynicism. Just like she's lying at 17 or 20 million. And, yeah, we're discussing the criteria, but you don't know how a sectoral conference works, do you? Don't you know who most people are? For inertia, the State. It's that although everyone agrees; who marks the State. That's the rules of the game, with which, as much as you are..., and we have placed the criteria to be the name of people working in special work centers, enter for one side and exit for another. Just as you don't remember that who detailed a 56_per_cent of the active employment policy funds in 2011 was a government of its color. You don't remember. You don't remember, because then we're going out with the whole thing... you don't remember, so that's why you're lying to 17 and 20 million. And, unfortunately..., and I know the first that, if it is true, that if of the 83_million in coming 20, I will come out here and say to him: "Look, you are right. But the criteria don't come up – they don't come up. I hope they're out. And we don't do the trill, and we call, and there's got to be justification to be able to pay. God says: "It works this way out of disgrace. And we are accelerating as much as possible, because we are aware that it is not only a situation around which the increase in the minimum wage represents, but it is also a question of three-hour tension, and we are absolutely aware of it, but at least as honest as they are. And don't say we don't talk, because, look, if I had a meeting for a specific topic with the minister it was for that. If I sent him I don't know how many cards to ask for clarifications around the criteria, that's why. And what you didn't deny to me is that you're making me the sum of the figures without explaining that you've been notified that 44_million less, and that they don't find it. And what seems to me to be even more dangerous is that you played an element that seems to be lied, for the game you represent, it seems to be lying that you play it, that you don't know how the SOC works or how its board of directors works. And eix 3 has the share of special work centres just as it has other active policies. And what you're saying to me is: "Now you're going to do everything at CETs and leave the other active policies, in a co-governance environment, in a concert environment, in a dialog environment. In an area of dialogue with the Federation of Municipalities, with the Catalan Association of Municipalities, with the unions represented, with employers, you are now giving them to all those members that this board of directors does not..., so that, since we have pushed the minimum wage and we do not plan to pay the CETS, « active policies for seniors of forty-five years old, which are also in the same area, so they come and stay here. He said that, he said that here, publicly, the same day I explain that we're moving forward with the territorial strategy decree. I fully understand that we have another way of hearing the concertation, another way of hearing the dialogue with the unions and employers and local authorities, and that you work and want the SOC to work in the same way that the sectoral conference works. That's it. And now they're going to come out like the big protectors. Now, the reality is that the only clear compromise the government of the State came to with the CETs, acquired, that it was "sector conference in April, and not country – I asked "we treat it at the fever" – did not complete it – did not complete it, did not complete it. And, Mr. Gibert, go on doing this: we are the only land in the State that we are close to, and we will continue to do it, and we will continue to work, because we are aware of the importance of TSEs, but it went further, until we are also aware of the importance of changing policies, because we focus on the Convention of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and on the fact that that LISMI that no one completes and that you already give away is complete; that's what it is. And they have responsibilities. It's the same as labor reform, it's the same as everything: everything is pilar, and everything is concrete. [[Widow's remorse. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.177.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about violations of citizens' right to vote abroad]] [[300-00127/12]] Finished this point, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the violations of citizens' right to vote abroad, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral has the word to explain the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.178.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Counsellors Bosch, we often talk about civil and political rights in the Parliament of Catalonia, because we are not tired of denouncing all the violations of rights, therefore, that we are living in our country, that there are many. And I want to focus on another right-wing violation today, don't I? , of the right to vote in this case, which may not be mentioned so much so that it affects hundreds of thousands of people, Catalans and Catalans who live in other countries, who have had to leave for many different reasons and that today, when they are called, therefore, elections, they see their political rights, in this sense– the right to vote, the right to participate– is seen as being violated. And I'm saying that because the Constitution, in other words, recognizes the right to the active and passive vote, the right to vote and to be elected, and even more so as to have the legal mechanisms in place because the community outside can also exercise that right to vote. And it would even read the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which it contemplates, wouldn't it? , as a right especially to protect, precisely, the right to political participation. So, when we see in an electoral call that, as last, more and more, I would say, the participation in Catalonia or, in these later days, in the Spanish State – so much as it goes – it is so high, there is such a great mobilization, there is a participation that remembers, to all of us should be ashamed that the vote on the outside is every time smaller, compared with all the people who voted before the reform of the year 2011, of the reform of the LOREG, that it was produced at the beginning of the year 2011, according to the People's Party and the Socialist Party, together at that time with Convergence and Unity and the Basque Nationalist Party, that introduced what is already known as the petitioned vote, didn't it? and whatever we say in catalá« the vote has been put to the vote. And what was that? So a little traverse, more traverse, huh? , for the community that lives abroad, that resides abroad, that is censused to the CERA or the ERTA ; therefore, it has, say, its participation from abroad. So he was carrying out a sequence of crossings, problems, which made participation drastically reduced. This procedure of the year 2011_has concerned a lot of people living abroad, because in the end the vote, this right to political participation, is a link with the country of origin. There are very many people, as we have said, who have had to leave, for various reasons, very many, probably the last years for a concrete impact of the economic crisis and, finally, the search for other or better job opportunities, economic ones, in order to be able to undertake the project of life; others, for professional offers that have come, therefore, from outside; others, for personal reasons too, even of family reunification from the point of view of the union with the pair, which may be from outside, etc. And we see more, in the Catalan case, like this, these gains from feeling part of Catalonia, these gains from feeling alive, right? , like Catalans, like the democratic subject, so they keep very alive. And we can see it in Catalan couples abroad, we can see it with the community of Catalans to the Moon, which have articulated precisely to be able to lay all the folds, all the opportunities that there are in any country where there are Catalans, to make this mutual help, right? Or even with the Granite Sea, which in this case at the level of the Spanish State also articulates, therefore, all these mechanisms to denounce all the limitations of rights, in this case of voting rights, that have these people who reside in foreign countries. And, of course, the Granate Sea I remember they also appeared here in the Parliament of Catalonia, in that case, didn't they? , to the Commission of Youth, just to denounce, as young people who had to leave..., that in fact they left because of political implications, they left because probably from the politics it was not given a way out to the economic and social crisis that had been living and, moreover, a little outside, they could not participate to try to transform the reality that had caused them to leave. Therefore, the importance of voting for all those people who live outside is basic. And from, uh, the Catalan institutions, from, I'd say, the agreement with all the political parties, huh? ...Because I think this has to be a global agreement, not just a government or a party; I think this is a question that affects us all absolutely, we have to defend it. The middle of the turnout in the elections before the vote preached oscil·lava..., the lowest, which were Europeans, were around 20 and a little percent turnout, and the highest reached almost 50; they did not get there, but 40 and fell percent turnout. Starting with the vote, the medium is located around 5-6_per_cent participation; it is a drastic reduction. In the last few, one skin has increased, it is true, and now we are around 10_per_cent, but it is much lower than there was before the vote preached, much lower. And there are a lot of people who just can't do this democratic exercise that's voting to decide what's going on in their future. And that, this drastic reduction in participation, goes more and more into a radically different context, in what should be indicated, the data, just the opposite, that is an increase in the number of Catalans or Spaniards – it's the same, isn't it? , we take the hundreds we want – of people who want to vote, who have increased residents abroad, they have grown much in the last few years; it has increased the global participation in the last elections, both in Catalonia, which we remembered in 2015, we remembered again in 2017..., now, in these general elections, it has not reached the maximum agreement, that it is of the princes of the eighty, but it is the second highest participation in history; however, in contrast to this, the vote of foreign residents is of the lowest of history. So, this situation of abnormality is causing this, isn't it? , this violation of rights for which it does to Catalans and Catalans residing abroad. And they ask us very clearly, that we pose, because it has to be very frustrating... And we have to put ourselves on the skin of these people who live outside, who see the news from the distance, who talk to family members, in other words, by Skype, by phone or whatever, who interact with each other because they want to see the reality that is going on in their country, they want to participate, they want to have this connection with the community from which they are from. And they see that sometimes their envelope in order to be able to participate in the elections above two, three weeks after it has been celebrated and the results published and, finally, that it has been constituted the parliaments that follow; now it will be the Congress or, in the case of 2017, this same Parliament. What frustration you must feel! We need to put ourselves on your skin, from these people who want to get involved in a better future for their country and can't. And we need to know how to give answers from politics. And, first of all, it is clear that it is necessary to improve the bureaucracy and all these slow and gruesome procedures that have been done by the consulates and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that have caused a lot of problems. And it probably wouldn't add a second, which surely goes hand in hand, any more, would it? , which is the lack of resources and which does, therefore, that just when people are going to demand the vote..., that, let's remember it – let's remember it –, until now, in these last ones, it had to be face-to-face, first you had to be in the console or the embassy to return, prove the cents, etcetera. Now he has introduced an element, say, telematics – which has certainly failed, and therefore also a new disaster for the entire external community that must be able to vote. And, therefore, they find with these three pots, therefore, that they prevent the citizenship that resides abroad from voting: bureaucracy, lack of resources and the non-electronic tools that can facilitate this right, as I said to the iniciator, that more than many other countries are implementing. And there'd be another one, which is more worrying, too, wouldn't there? , that is transparency, that sometimes there is also a certain need just for the transparency of the process and why once the citizenry has voted. Why have they even seen each other... and I'll remember the Catalan elections of the 17th, right? That's what they found on paper, from voters, from paper. Therefore, this feeling of right-wing violation, sadly, in the past we have seen that it is flagrant. Therefore, counselor, we ask you from the Republican Parliamentary Group what measures..., well and knowing that the competences are state, and we are aware, but from its advice, that they are doing just a lot of good to get out of the world, to give support to the Catalan community to foreigner and, therefore, to be able to give out to all these concerns, which claims precisely to correct this violation of rights for which it does the right to political participation and to the suffering of Catalans and Catalans residing abroad.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.179.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] To the answer is now the return of the Foreign Affairs Councillor, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.180.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., MP Gómez del Moral, before he re, so wish him an intense union at the Congress of the Deputies in Madrid. We're going to miss his smile and we're going to miss his stale arguments, too, as we've proven again right now. If I may, I would ask you for a few deures, there at the Congress of Deputies, because, I am aware that the external vote depends absolutely on the State and the Government of the State, and in a very particular way on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so I would ask you to push them, that of the first things that you did there at the Congress of Deputies were to push for better and better corrections that can end this scandalous problem; scandals because, of course, we are in the 21st century and we have all the technologies to the abst experienced, contrasts, that have applied in many countries of the world, that work, that offer all the guarantees, right? Having many more opportunities than decades ago, participation in the outside world of citizens and citizens is each time more demanding, or so, it is less than there were decades ago. So this really – really – is a problem that we have to face. And we, like the Government of Catalonia, which do not have the capacity to change this external voting system right now, must act. And to act, therefore, among other things, including these proposals, this pressure, this constant work to defend the most basic and fundamental rights of people who are willing to vote and who live abroad. I'll comment on some data that clearly gives... so report it, right? , and tell us the magnitude of the tragedy. Listen, as well as the increase of Catalans living abroad during the last decade, which has significantly increased, so, participation in the show is very low– around 10_per_cent, I've already said–, and basically– basically– this is due to the need to preach the vote, huh? Since this novelty is introduced, therefore, this introduces or adds yet another obstacle to which they already exist, beginning with distance; but also those which exist for what it does to the postal system, for which it does, therefore, to the function always overflowing the consoles, etc. In fact, for example, if we take over the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, which we know to manage from the Department of Foreign Affairs, and Institutional Relations and Transparency, it is one of the attributions that we have, therefore, the figures are very worrying, very much. Elections to the 2003 Parliament are, say, a little over fifteen years ago, the turnout was 18.6_per_cent; in the 2015 elections, the turnout was 7.5_per_cent. It's like, less than half of what the participation was earlier, when there are more citizens, younger, right? And there's certainly still a lot more interest in Catalan politics than it was a few years ago. Because the participation here in our country, not abroad, but of the citizens who are here and who vote in the electoral colleges, this shows. Participation is disappearing through a band, and, in change, outwards the crow is the other way around. Something's not going well. Of the 226,381 Catalans registered with the right-to-vote CERA, in the elections of 21 December 2017, only 39,521 petitions, less than 25_per_cent, petitions to vote, and only those petitions at the end were able to vote 27,173. Of those who asked for the vote, that is to say, a little more than half actually could exercise their right to vote. We have the last elections, of 28 April, we do not have the data closed yet, we have not provided, but we have, for example, a date that will surely surprise them: of the 125 petitions that were made to the Spanish consulate in Moscow, you know how many were able to vote, of all those who asked for the vote? One person, lucky; one person will be able to vote. Clearly, here's something that clearly doesn't work. And it's not that they can't vote for unwillingness – that's also to be said, and that's to be said very clearly – just because there are barriers. It's not that the people who go abroad are less interested in participating, because interest is there and it shows the data, but every time it's more complicated to exercise this phonetic right. And, therefore, we must denounce it and we must press, we must "squeeze what it is so that this, therefore, is correct and is correct now, immediately and in a clear and consistent manner. Imagine the peril to vote, pose to the skin of a city that lives, for example, in the city of Vancouver, on the peaceful coast of Canada. First, you have to make sure you're right in the census, and if you don't, if you have any doubts, you have to go to the Toronto consulate, which is at 4,500 miles, six or seven hours of flight, four time zones, huh? And there, with a few hours, so, that they're not always as generous as they want, there you can find with a quail and wait for hours, during which it should be his working day; that is, it's people who are actually inverting a more time of their own that can get to be very scandalous. Then the vote must be called, the documentation must be asked to support this telematic processing that has been introduced, but that at the moment it does not work well, it is not working well. So, here's another problem. And then, then, the vote, of course, must be sent by post... sorry, the telematics must be sent by post or fax, and most consoles no longer have to fax; so, say, this is a redundancy that must also be taken into account. Then you have to wait for the documentation. What if the lucky guy gets back the documentation in time, huh? Then you must send your vote by mail, which may arrive in time or may not arrive in time, which may arrive in destination or may not arrive in destination; this is not the first time that voting papers do not arrive where they arrive and therefore cannot be computerised. But it's more than that, of course, there's no need for the documentation to come within the word... or reach it in such a way that it's not materially possible to send the vote in time. Imagine if that happens to Canada, huh? , this city of Vancouver which we are talking about, therefore, can take the option of, to ensure, to guarantee their vote, to go face-to-face to the consular office: other cop 4,500_kilometres, six or seven hours of flight, eh? , cover four time zones, make the relevant buttocks. Therefore, truly – truly – we are talking about an authentic suplici, a viacrucis. It is unacceptable – it is unacceptable – the negligence of the Spanish government until now for what it does to this basic and fundamental issue in democracy. Therefore, from the Government of Catalonia we will continue to work with all the strength we have – which is not all that we want, but that we have it – because we respect the right to pay for citizens and citizens of Catalonia abroad. We place all the citizens residing in the foreigner, all those who want to vote, all those who have encountered problems, who claim their right to vote, and, through the Civil Rights Office, through the means, the networks we have, that we get there, that we inform ourselves, that we will get there wherever we go. And we also announced that we would press Minister Borrell tomorrow so that he and the delegations of the Government of Catalonia could defend the most basic rights of the citizens of Catalonia who live abroad, and they would also stand there, and all the prayers would do whatever it takes to make this happen. Because, listen, there's enough, or there's enough. Maybe instead of chasing those who are dedicated to putting the ballot boxes because the citizens can vote, maybe they can go a little where those who can't vote because of the ineptitude and the system that doesn't work, huh? , and that politically it has not been resolved from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs..., so that this resolves and that people can vote, and therefore there is not enough to make voting always difficult in all areas. That's not acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.181.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, the deputy has the word... no? [[Pause.]] Give up the reply. Therefore, we would have exhausted this point of the order of the day and it would be time to suspend the session until two-quarters of four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.182.0	MPs, MPs, good afternoon. Let's resume the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the local world]] [[302-00095/12]] The next item on the agenda is the motion following the question to the Government about the local world, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose the young lady has the word Mrs. Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.183.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... I would like to start by talking about the recovery of the Planico d'obres y servi de Catalunya, known as PUOSC. The councilwoman announced from here, from this Faristol, a question from a servant, that would bring a new call from PUOSC. But in the governing agreements of this week, there was no new call from the PUOSC. And I'd like to ask the government what's going to happen. Is it going to happen to what just happens? That we approve of the motions to be fine – and now, that municipal elections are held – then not to throw in front of what is voted in this Chamber? It's a long way from his dream, from which we ask the young lady. And I read in full: "Require the development and installation in march, immediately, of the programs of cooperation with the locals of our territory, directed to the progress and the territorial balance, for which thing the Single Plan of Works and Services of Catalonia, the PUOSC, is the main instrument of cooperation of the Generality with the locals to accomplish the construction of equipments and services that avoid depopulation and promote territorial balance. So, what are they gonna do at this point? Will they vote against what the councilwoman has compromised? Words don't carry the wind, and less, promises. I'd like to know what they think they're doing at this point. On the other hand, it is important to note that, in the end, we have also reached an agreement to approve an annual roadblock, because the municipalities have enough equipment to meet the needs of existing roads. And let us hope, as we have done, that in our own approval of the assumptions of the Generality, it will be reflected. Look, our lady is talking about a lot of issues, it's very extensive. And we believe that each and every one of the points improves the foundational aspects for local administrations. The best of citizen security is one of the most worrying aspects of assembly. And we are happy that, finally, we can deal with Juntas for Catalonia, Esquerra and Ciutadans, and that we can guarantee that the new promotions of Mosso d'Esquadra that have completed the training course, can incorporate in the citizen safety and preventive patrol. Above all, placing emphasis, in particular, on urban development of urban clusters. Of the bressol schools, we haven't talked in this Parliament, like the one you say... I think every time there's been a ple. One or other Member, in various cases, has consistently demanded, through motions or motions for resolutions, the obligation to pay the thirty-six Catalan assemblies that submitted a concrete debt claim – certainly pending – precisely from the management of the service of the Bressol schools, which, in fact, in order to re-demand it, already tells the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. We need to set up a payment schedule, because the meetings work every day on this service, because children go to school every day. And the gatherings, they can't wait any longer; they've taken over this for a long time when the Generalitat hasn't taken on its share, the part that was on it. I would like to end by talking about housing, because it is really necessary to address this issue and enhance work together with the municipalities. Fighting against empty habitats is essential, and that is why it is necessary to create the interdepartmental table as a matter of urgency to coordinate the fight against this problem. We know that she's a very long young woman, that she has many points, that she deals with many fears of many areas and, in my second intervention, I will give thanks to all the Members, because they have actually made a great effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.184.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is now the return of Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.185.0	Thank you very much. I wanted to address the MPs and MPs of the PSC, because I understand that they are presenting..., as they are a municipalist political organization, we have doubts whether we understand municipalism the same way. We don't think so. For us, municipalism implies competition and finance, yes; but it also implies transformation, it also implies courage. It implies that the nine social demands and the challenges of democratic governance of public policy require responses involving social actors. That it cannot be the same municipalism without evolving that the PSC has made in the last forty years; that it must go to more, that it must be brave, that it must remunicipalize. That it can take on more skills, end the culture of cement and feel a society that is braver than institutions, also when it defends the environment, social rights and the future of cities. Your young lady is fine, it's consumable, it's correct. Congresswoman Moreta knows the subject and works very well, but the measures they present do not fail to have a point of contradiction and inconsistency with what they do when they are in government. And, more, with the time they've been to the state government. They're assembling a little, dangerously, to Republican Esquerra on the side of saying one thing, but then, when they're in the government, don't do it. We, of course, will support all the measures that help the most appropriate institutions in the country. We will vote, at last, on those measures that make reference to plans of shock or contingency and that, in the end, are necessary measures because, as there is no Government of Junts for Cat and Esquerra Republicana, we must continue proposing and requesting plans of shock and contingency to reverse all the lack of policies of the Government. But we do want to highlight those things in which we believe that the Socialist Party has done nothing when it has had the opportunity, to the Government of the State. For example, there has been no fiscal finance reform that improves local tax collection management. Effective cooperation and inter-administrative cooperation procedures have not been initiated. Nothing has been done to compensate the municipalities for the tax benefits that the People's Party has approved on behalf of the municipal arks. Nothing has happened, with the expense rule, one of the most unfair mechanisms and that more detail the municipal sovereignty and that is asphyxiating our cities and that, moreover, has a perverse side effect and is the privatization of the competitions. And obviously, it didn't happen with LRSAL either. Assemblies do not have the financial capacity sufficient not only to assume their competencies, but also to assume all those resulting from the inefficiency of other administrations and other levels of government. This is what causes the problems we find at the gatherings when they want to remunerate you. And that's also what causes you to be outsourced many times to private companies, so you don't have the ability to contract from the public administration. All this, we insist, is favored by state laws, which pose through the direct management of common resources and benefits, such as water. Other examples, and we have not talked many times before: the reform of Article 135 of the Constitution, together with the People's Party, to reduce the capacity of public administrations for austerity and privatization. We have asked them many times to support the ability of the gatherings to limit the price increases of the logger. You... you're on the verge of approving express charges, and you're forty years old doing a public housing policy that privatizes public housing, because it's buying, owned, and that protection lapses. We want to insist and believe that you are going to do what you say you are doing and now you are going to have a government in the state, you are going to have to prove that you are actually at the side of the assemblies that you claim... as municipalists. We don't know... we have doubts, because we have seen how 155 have invaded the autonomy of Catalonia and have also invaded the autonomy of the assemblies. We had a surprise, which finally could not be, when they accepted Ciutadans's message, where it was about the official language of communication to local administrations, when it is something that is in the State of Catalonia. And they accept a slogan that shakes the flag of the process again in a young man who is talking about the local world, and they talk about 'political neutrality'. Would we like to know what they mean by political neutrality? Whether the "Welcome Shelters" banner is political neutrality or not? Whether or not when we remove the lyla color from a pool on November 25th, is political neutrality or not? If what they're using is political neutrality to talk about deep loops, it's easier than making deep loops and not making euphemisms of this type. It has been said, the Socialist Party can be like a rush, second the wind blows, goes right, goes left. They now have the opportunity, to the Government of the State, to make transformative policies for the assemblies. If they do, they'll find us, and if they don't, we'll make them ourselves and hope to find them there. But let's also hope they're willing to transform from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.186.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernat Sole has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.187.0	Well, good afternoon, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies... Mrs Moreta, I... with all the good faith of the world, I remind you that the electoral campaign begins to sell. And why am I telling you this? Because, precisely, this motion is what it does to sum up all that electoral program that you carry with you from the municipalities of our country. They are points that have been debated, that have been voted on, that some have been even granted in their parliament or in commissions, and today, you are returning them – I understand –, therefore, to generate a series of headlines, to generate a series of confrontations that I am sure in a situation of normality we would not have. In fact, I would like to say to him that at some point there has been some slowing down, because in those responsibilities which he claims to the Government of the Generality they must also count on the responsibility of the Government of the State, for example on housing issues or on issues of special work centres. And, therefore, you, I trust that you have the opportunity to rule in the State, so you are co-responsible in these two themes. They're asking us, for a band, for a new law of local governments. Welcome back. We have always defended it from this parliamentary group; whatever it is, whatever it is that you assume to have more skills, more autonomy, improve the financing system of the assemblies, will be welcomed. Now, how can they demand a law of local governments that gives greater autonomy to the assemblies, when they have the opportunity to repeal the LRSAL and have not done so? Therefore, from here we invite you and remove you. In terms of education, specifically in funding from zero to three years, it is clear that the Government of the Generality's intention is to regain co-responsibility in this age range from zero to three years. We're clear, we need to get back those contributions that were there six years ago. And precisely a timetable was proposed that starts with 1,300_euros/year and students and that in a specified and fixed period is to end with 1,800_euros/year and students, whenever it is also counted with the co-responsibility of the members and always taking into account the mixed committee, which is precisely the organ where these issues are discussed and where they have to be agreed. For what he does to the lists of hope of salvation, the Government has shown it precisely due to the end of a plan of success from the April of the year 2017 until the April of the year 2018. But not only that, but at these times there is a decree approved for the same government which, for one band, guarantees waiting time in some concrete interventions and which, for another, introduces criteria of fairness, of the personal condition of the people. For what it does to the re-opening of CAPs, obviously, we agree, but always seen from a territorial planning, and not from a punctual planning. Precisely there is the National Emergency Plan, the Plan, which you foresee, and it takes into account population criteria, fluctuation criteria, activity criteria and accessibility criteria. For what he does to social services, he asks us to create nine residences. Well, the Government of the Generality is clear that what it has to offer is new residential places; if it has to go through the creation of new residences or it has to go through a concertation, it will already discuss the department depending on each case. Precisely the department also bets to give opportunities to third-sector entities, which are doing a lot of good work and which guarantee this efficient and quality network. For what it does to the services linked to the residence, look, I'll go over the data. At the time a certain name will be implemented that today is not yet exhausted. Why? Because the users want to get a place of public residence, and therefore there is no sense in increasing them if they are not exhausted. For what he does to PUOSC, he asked us if we would vote for it, if we would vote against it... Miri, our vote will be a abstention. Do you know why? Because we agree to get back the only working and serving platform in Catalonia, but we disagree with the model you're putting us on. A PUOSC does not only have to be used for equipment, for depopulation and for all those criteria that you set; a PUOSC also has to be used to boost economic activity, to generate new opportunities and to create new territorial leaderships. And in fact the government has already announced the creation of this PUOSC. Look, I told you before, you've ruled and you'll probably rule, I don't know if all the joints you'd want. Today we have reached agreements and, for another band, today too have generated many electoral promises. I trust that from the 26th on, this fever of headlines, because today they do scratch some headlines, but I want to think that these headlines that they scratch today are turning into sensible proposals and that you, together with the groups that support the government and the same government, make a better country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.188.0	Thank you, Congressman. The next intervention is the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Mrs Gemma Geis has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.189.0	Well; good late, also the members of the government. As the company that spoke before, the Deputy Sole, these motions that you have presented, this interest on the grounds of presenting inquiries and motions related to the local administration..., well, a deputy who is new does not fail to presume the approximation of the electoral campaign. But you, in this motion, which indeed, Mrs Moreta, you make reference to its extension – more than twenty-five points – surprise me, because if you want and defend is the local administration of these municipalities, because you are the first door to which the citizens are heading, therefore escorting, deroguing the LRSAL. And you, in the election program of the PSOE in the Spanish elections of 2016, that 'I'm going down and I'm still stuck, are committed to repealing the LRSAL immediately and in a necessary way, and it turns out that in the past Spanish elections, in the electoral program of the Socialist Party of 2019, it turns out that the repeal of the LRSAL no longer existed. It is more, from the two pages of reference to the local administration, to the ability to modify the laws to benefit the municipalities and their assemblies, therefore dear, of the electoral program of the Socialist Party 2016, which occupied two pages, to the electoral program of the Socialist Party, "Make it pass, this year, it turns out that there were still not three or four lines related to the local administration. And you know what I'm saying? If they really care about local administration – and you know that there are many reports, academic literature, university literature, that claim and criticize the LRSAL – if you really want and worry about the local administration, they worry about the services that the municipalities exercise, the competitions of the mayors, the best move is to approve the LRSAL. And now you're going to have the competition. The fact that, of course, the electoral programme they voted on turns out that this was not the case. Therefore, from this reality, which is the modification of the LRSAL, that even the Constitutional Court recently, therefore, interpreted it in a negative way with regard to the competence of local autonomy, we have this motion. In this young man we have agreed on some transactions, because, dear, to be a government that doesn't rule, there is no way how many points we have come to agree with the Republican Group and with Juntes for Catalonia. Mainly, I would point out that we are committed– and the programme of Junts for Catalonia to the Congress, to the Spanish elections, but explicitly cited the will to repeal the LRSAL –, we commit ourselves and give support to the Government to recover the Law of local governments of Catalonia and to recover the debate on the financing of the local authorities of Catalonia. Because there are many other local administration problems that are likely to arise after that, of the services that must be provided, and always the problem right there: the lack of funding; and here we could relate, if we wanted, to urbanism. Therefore, Law of local governments, finance of competence of local authorities in Catalonia, through a law for the financing of these local authorities. They'll find us here. But more of us in this House are voting in favour of paying for the Bressol schools; increasing the public offer to the dual FP. In construction, we will abstain, but in this case we are also in favour, because we are compromised with the nine residences. To create a housing plan, all its measures to promote housing, because for us it is important, we also vote in favour. Measures in the area of Squadron Mosses to improve citizen security; measures in relation to Squadron Mosses and their needs so as to be able to provide... And with regard to the only working and serving platform in Catalonia, so we believe that it is a measure that has also been widely claimed, that we know that the Government of the Generality is actively working there to see the light as quickly as possible. In this sense, we will abstain, not because we are not compromised with a single plan of works and services from Catalonia, but because our model is absolutely different. And finally, as for the proposals for the neutrality of buildings, the neutrality of our mayors, so we will understand that we cannot vote in favour, because what we will never do will be to defend a Catalonia that self-censored, eh? And, therefore, from this point of view, therefore, here they will not find our support. And I finish the way I started: the best move in favor of local administration is to vote and repeal the LRSAL. And that's up to you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.190.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Munia Fernández-Jordan has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.191.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, councillors... deputies, deputies, the motion that the PSC brings us to plenary today has a single point of place, which is to promote a new law of local government; and in that we can agree. However, there is no development in the text of this idea. And they tell us that we have to clarify competences. Can we not go further and start talking about the need to eliminate duplicity, at all costs to public coffers? To say that this law should serve to rid us of the fat of the Administration, a ballast for the citizen and a huge loss of resources..., wouldn't that law also serve to create a true unique window in the 21st century, in the digital age, where we see that things still don't work? Is it not time to put an end to the public's dizziness with so many efforts? Can we become aware of the thousands of bureaucratic obstacles that citizens have when they arrive at the administrations? The rest of the motion does not cease to be a plea: it is to review all that the Government does not do in cities and villages; hence it must come from the local question. But these petitions, which we will support for the vast majority, do not cease to be motions and PRs that we have tabled since the beginning of the legislature. They are disaggregating very important issues for society and we have seen that they are in no way Mr Torra's priority. It's true, the Generalitat doesn't have education as a priority. It's embarrassing the level of barracks we have, an absolutely intolerable record. And it is true that children's schools must be paid for. How is it possible that in last year's budget there would be zero euros for the Bressol schools? Or how is it possible that after what the High Court of Justice said, in January 2018, the municipalities have not yet received the money owed to them? Nor is there any priority on the part of the Government in matters of health and social affairs. Shame, the situation. How can we be at the back of the autonomous communities on such vital issues? How could I have waited for 18,400 older people to enter a residence and not be able to activate five thousand free places? With regard to health, we have pointed out the need for transparency in waiting lists and are published every six months, broken down by centre and type of intervention, in order to solve this problem. What about housing? Another real disaster. After Councillor Calvet's bochronous decree, we ask for a serious, rigorous, consensual debate to be started, so that we can carry out a decree law that will finally guarantee housing in Catalonia. With regard to security, he cries out to heaven the situation we are living in. In the city where I live, Sant Cugat del Vallès, there are people who have been assaulted up to three times in a year. We proposed by way of an amendment to the motion that the new resources allocated from Mossos could be concentrated in the most peripheral areas of the cities, where we see more home assaults taking place. And so far comes the request of the Socialist Party of Catalonia to the Government, all requests. And we understand that this abandons the real local policy, the proximity policy. That is why we have included two amendments. The first, for a thing as logical as that people can reach the Office of Citizen Care and ask that communications be in both co-official, Spanish and Catalan languages. PSC response: "No. They will not vote in favour of this amendment. They do not understand that the citizens of Catalonia..., do not share that they can receive the documentation in the two official languages. That's the PSC we have. The second is for the freedom of all in public space, so that we can share in peace, without separatist propaganda. The public space is of all Catalans and therefore must be neutral. That is our local contribution to this proposal. But luckily the next motion is from Citizens, and in that yes we are going to address the local world [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] with...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.192.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.193.0	... a point of view of absolute proximity, so that people are strengthened in their quality of life and in their rights and freedoms. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.194.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix the position, now is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP. Mr Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.195.0	Thank you, President. Well, assuming that we're obviously in front of an electoral and electoral leader, in local leader, we won't be telling them what we're doing and what we're doing at the assembly. Look, we want the assemblies to be a space of democratic radicality, followed by the civic participation that dictates the decisions that are taken in the plenary and in the governing teams. We want feminist municipalities that truly guarantee that our municipalities are free of masculinist violence. We want some municipalities to serve a social and solidary economy where it is possible that people do not have to leave to look for work elsewhere, that there are spaces for creating quality occupation and decent living conditions for everyone. We want sustainable municipalities, defending the territory and the environment. We want anti-racist municipalities and colliders. We want municipalities where you are guaranteeing the right to housing, where no one has to suffer the injustice of not enjoying a habitat, where no one has to suffer the injustice of a denunciation. And how's that? So expropriating empty floors and generating and prioritizing the creation of a public housing park. We want some gatherings in which they are interned, it is recovered and it is reappropriated the public services and the strategic resources of the territory; some municipalities that are the basis of creation of sobrieties, and this is given by social and socialist logic, yes, because it seems to us that it is the most efficient and most valid way to guarantee then a fairness in the distribution and performance of the services, but also by a principle of sovereignty, of recovery of national sovereignty through the gatherings. We want some gatherings where it's gender equality and social justice. We want a few assemblies where freedom of expression is fully free, a few municipalities where it is guaranteed that they are free places of repression. And we also want unsubmissive, disobedient municipalities; valiant municipalities that are spaces of self-determination and popular self-organization; those spaces where we need to create and recreate conditions again for future about three of October; spaces from which we will again raise this country in a democratic insurgency to ensure the definitive break with the 78th rule. And it's from this logic, from this program, from this project that we defend and develop at the gatherings – and that we will continue to do so at the gatherings that we govern – that we will define the voting sense of your young lady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.196.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs. Andrea Levy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.197.0	Yes; thank you, President. Well, let me disagree. To come here to say that a motion is electoralist because it is presented precisely when the political parties have to hold the citizens accountable for what they have been doing in the various local corporations, seems to me to want to isolate precisely the debate that takes place in this parliamentary chamber and the reality of the citizens of Catalonia, which, by the way, is something that has been happening quite commonly in the plenary sessions of this Parliament. I wish we could talk more about these issues, about the issues that really affect the day-to-day life of Catalans, and not about ancient, Byzantine issues, and that are no longer going to take us anywhere. The problem of this motion, which is true that it is a tailor's drawer in which it tries to put different topics – from security, social services, education, health... –, is none other than in the last ten years the budgets have not been approved when they were playing; the Generalitat has not approved budgets when they were playing. The problem with this motion is that out of those ten years, in four of them there have not even been new budgets, the previous ones have been extended. And this wave of public accounts has caused, because of the instability of governments and parliamentary arithmetics, that the necessary budgetary allocations could not be realized in what they are demanding and that we have the opportunity to speak in the next motion, which goes on the same subject. In, for example, why there are twenty-thousand students who study in modules, why they still cannot study in educational centers, instead of in barracks, those more than twenty-thousand students, and why they do not concrete themselves, for example, those templates that are asking the Mossos d'Esquadra..., to end this historical deficit that has their templates. In short, if we want to talk about the local world and of competences, of course, we must do so in this Chamber. But it is no less true that we cannot carry out any of these measures unless there is a commitment from the Generalitat also to the local world to approve those budgets and to put an end to those historic debts it has with municipal corporations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.198.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, to position herself on the exams, has the new word Mrs Marta Moreta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.199.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Segovia [[relays]] Are you telling me exactly that the PSC depends on how the wind blows from one band to the other? But if you are the number one experts in following the wind, above all the one who blows Puigdemont! How can you tell me that? [[Greetings.]] I don't think – I don't think – that you are the most suitable to give lessons about municipalism. I don't think so. But, come on, all interventions are welcome. Mr Solé, you and your group, like the Junts for Catalonia group, could have presented various questions about the local world during this last year. I'm in the local world; I haven't seen any. And it turns out that today we're doing this, so they say it's an electoral issue. Home, I don't share it at all. On the other hand, Mrs Fernández, I would like to say to you that in this young man we don't talk about placards and banners, we talk about proposals that improve the local world, and that is why we don't accept any mention that I speak of other things; it's very simple. I would like to end by thanking most sincerely all the Members who have been to the little part of the canon in a young man who has had thirty items– thirty items–, he has carried a great deal of work and, therefore, I want to thank here, sincerely, all the pocket they have made, and also – also, why not? – to all the technical support we have for each parliamentary group, especially for the Netherlands and the Nuria of my parliamentary group. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.200.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. [[(Pause.) Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.) Mrs. Caula, tell me. (Whispering) Quiet, and please.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.201.0	Thank you, President, for asking for a separate vote. We would ask for two blocks, one consisting of points 6, 7, 8, 10, 22 and 23, another with points 11, 12, 13, 18 and 25, and for us, the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.202.0	All right. [[Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.203.0	Yes; also to ask for a separate vote on the 22nd, which was in its bloc, but it would have to be separate, and from the 15th and 15th headings.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.204.0	5th and 5th together, Mrs Bravo? 5th and 5th together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.205.0	Head of 15th and 15th.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.206.0	I'm sorry, 15 and 15. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.207.0	They can be together, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.208.0	Okay. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.209.0	In order to ask for a separate vote on the 25th, which should be voted by itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.210.0	All right. All right, so... [[Carles Riera Albert asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Riera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.211.0	Yes, also to join us, President, in the separate motion for a vote. For our part it should be point 1, from 2 to 14 you can vote together...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.212.0	1, 2 and 14 together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.213.0	No, no, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.214.0	1 for a band, 2 and 14.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.215.0	For our part they can vote jointly from 2 to 14 inclusive.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.216.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.217.0	And also hot vote separated from the 15 forward. Thank you. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.218.0	Well, we'll vote... I'm trying to do a little voting scheme, which isn't easy. We'll vote in the first place point one, block two... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, because it doesn't fit, Mr. Riera, with what I was asked to do. We'll vote separately from everything, because with the blocks they've told us, they don't fit in absolute, and so it'll be faster and easier if we do this one by one, huh? Let us, therefore, proceed to vote point by point. Let's start voting point number one, let's start voting point one. The vote begins. Point 1 was approved by 122 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2 was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. The third point was approved unanimously: 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're voting point number four. The vote begins. Point 4 was approved by 127 votes to none, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5 was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote number six. The vote begins. The sixth point was approved by 67 votes to one, with 59 abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the seven-point. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 67 votes to one, with 59 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the 8th. The vote begins. The eighth point was approved by 67 votes in favour, against and 60 abstentions. And now we're going to vote for the new one. The vote begins. The new item was approved by 126 votes in favour, against, no abstentions and one Member present who did not vote. Let's go now to the point where we want to. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 67 votes in favour, against and 60 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the one-off. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 67 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the dot. The vote begins. The dot was approved by 67 votes to 60, with no abstentions. And we're voting on the tretze now. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 67 votes to 60, with no abstentions. And now fourteen. Vote. The fourteen-point was approved unanimously; that is to say, 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're voting, from the 15th, the 15th and 15th encapsulation. The vote begins. The 15th item was approved by 88 votes to 39 abstentions. We're voting for point b, point 15b. The vote begins. Point 15.b was approved by 124 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. And we're voting now on 15.c. The vote begins. Point 15.c was approved by 124 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. And now we vote on the seven-point. The vote begins. The seven-point vote was 124 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. And now the thirst. Vote. Point 17 was approved by 124 votes to three, with no abstentions. And now we're voting on the split point. The vote begins. In the split point there was a tie: 63 votes in favour, 63 against, no abstention and 1 Member present who did not vote. So let us repeat the vote. Start voting on the split point. The voting was approved by 64 votes to 63, with no abstentions. Let's move on to vote on the 19th. The vote begins. Point 19 was approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions; that is, unanimously. Let's go now and vote on the 20th. The vote begins. The vote was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. And now we vote on the twenty-first point. The vote begins. The twenty-first point was approved by 124 votes to three, with no abstentions. Let's move on to vote on point 22. The vote begins. Point 22 was adopted by 31 votes to 96, with 96 abstentions. And now we're voting point 23. The vote begins. The twenty-third point was approved by 67 votes in favour, against and 60 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the 24th. The vote begins. Point 24 was approved by 127 votes to none, with no abstentions. Let's move on to vote 25. The vote begins. The twenty-five was rejected by 56 votes in favour, 63 against and 8 abstentions. There's no more point in this young man. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into cooperation with local government]] [[302-00098/12]] And let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into cooperation with local government, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it, has the word the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.219.0	When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.220.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillor, second municipalist motion of the afternoon, then another will come. Ours, in particular, is the motion following the inquiry, the debate we had with the Councilwoman a couple of weeks ago, in which we highlighted the shortcomings in cooperation or the lack of cooperation between this administration, the Generalitat de Catalunya, and the local world. In the interpellation we highlighted many of the shortcomings, of the areas of improvement, but today, in the control session, when my colleague Manuel Rodríguez has recriminated him, he has asked something that we believe is fair, that it is worth defending, that is that they do not go to party associations resources of all, I have observed that you intended to give us lessons, with which I will allow myself to repeat to him some of the arguments that we gave him the other day, because, while you were talking about fiscal deficits, it turns out that the biggest fiscal deficit that existed in Catalonia was the one that kept this administration with the municipalities, that had to be indebted, that they had to borrow, while you were holding them balance. You demand new skills but do not comply with what you have with the local world and force the municipalities to include their lewdness in the budgets. You paid the plugs a day, here, as the opposition leader says – today, in its last plenary, I will remember, right? – at the beginning of the month always comes the repression by the current account but instead the balances of the nurseries do not pay you in time. And what do you do when you increase crime and lower local police officers? Well, what you do is increase Mr. Torra's security guard. Thousands of citizens expect aid for the rehabilitation of buildings on facades and you pay buildings for language bars in the Valencian Community. And in all these years of process, you, therefore, this, feeding chiringuitos, TV3, embassies, and well... By the way, today has come news, that we in Andalusia have reduced a hundred chiringuitos in a hundred days of government. It's not bad at all. Well, with the balance you allocate, you could cover the budgets of the main municipalities in Catalonia every year. I have told you many times: the process began and you forgot about the neighbourhoods, and proof of this is the Barrios Act, which is not provided, which has not been funded since 2010. But today we want to move from the protest to the proposal; that is why we are presenting this motion, which has several points, but basically includes that all the payments that are still due are fulfilled, but above all that they are paid in time from now on; that you assume your competences both in health policies, in social policies, in educational policies; that you build the infrastructures and equipment that have been committed, we do not ask you more to do what you have committed; we propose that aid funds be created; that local funding be improved; that you recover programs such as PUOSC or the Neighbourhood Act; and finally, that you provide more resources for security. We told him the other day that the other side of the currency in his management is what they do in the municipalities. In the municipalities you use local entities as branches of your process. And today I was alarmed listening to the counselor when she said that, well, as a plenary voted, so it's legal to be in the MAI. The truth is..., you review the legal concepts, because you, here, a couple of years ago, also voted for something that is now giving you some other legal problem. On this line we also ask you in this motion to exercise your powers and what we have said to you this morning, to remove the AMI municipalities and to return all the fees paid to the municipal coffers. Town halls are the first administration in front of the citizen and are not a window for you to hang the ties. And we know that they are not going to do it, that they are going to vote against it today, but, well, the time has come for us..., we have come to ask no further changes; the time has come for us to do them for ourselves. In two weeks, and now that this municipal campaign begins, we are going to be the ones to pull out the AMI municipalities and the ones to untie the ties. And from here and now I want to give a lot of encouragement to my colleagues, to the municipal candidates, because I am sure that in many municipalities of Catalonia we will have public representatives of Citizens defending freedom and defending equality. And I also send a lot of encouragement to you, transfer it to your mayors, because if you question us when we go to municipalities walking with the opposition leader, you tell us that we can't be there, that we're not from there, I don't know the face you're going to put when you see our comrades sitting in municipalities like Vic, Torroella de Montgrí or Canet de Mar. [[Greetings.]] Catalonia is going to dye orange and there is going to be a person, a representative of Citizens defending freedoms even in the last palm of our land. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.221.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to defend the papers presented, it has the word in the first place, for the PSC Group and Units for Advance, the deputy Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.222.0	Thank you. Well, we're going out three times talking about the local world, we're going to see each other, and there's probably a lot of fears that we're going to repeat, because the three motions have points in common, and so we're going to reiterate what we've already been doing. All the way, I'd like to start my speech on the current Local Cooperation Fund in Catalonia, which should gradually arrive at 5_percent of the current generality entries... I, deputies and deputies, at these times not up to '1_per_cent. As I said in my first argument, we believe that it would also be necessary to create a new foundation for local investment that allows local investments to be guaranteed over time, facilitating planning. We also believe that public investment is necessary for the betterment of local services and, in addition, contributes to the dynamism of the local economy and occupation; resources are set aside for the financing of investments and will channel the bulk of the government's capital grants to the municipalities. The amount that the Generality should contribute annually to this fund should be a percentage of its current receipts. I would not like to repeat the issue of the debt with meetings in the field of bressol schools any further, because we have spoken of it extensively and extensively. We find Ciutadan's motion very generic, as they often do; don't specify. They tell us that we don't specify and that we talk about local issues without talking about it: a previous motion, that we had twenty-five points..., and they say that there was only one talking about the local world. Perhaps what they don't know is that the assemblies speak of various themes and, therefore, to the motions that are presented in this Parliament there is also to speak of all the themes that affect the day-to-day management of the assemblies. Therefore, we believe that this young man from Ciutadans is very generic. All in all, we will vote for the majority of points in favour, some abstentions and some vote against. As far as PUOSC is concerned, I have already commented on it before, but it is clear that it is almost impossible to deal with the inversions of services that are to be made by the joints without a call from PUOSC. It could be repeated, repeated... We need this call from PUOSC urgently; we will not be able to do it, we will do it, we need it urgently this year. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On the other hand, I would also like to say that we share point 7 of the motion with Ciutadans, which makes reference, precisely, to the subject of PUOSC. We have also been able to reach an agreement on the issue of citizen security, because we propose..., my parliamentary group proposes that through local security assemblies the necessary coordinated actions between the different police units to address this issue. And I would leave it here, because we still have another intervention from the local world and I would end up talking about those fears that I haven't talked about yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.223.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it's the turn of Congresswoman Susanna Segovia, for the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Pueblo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.224.0	Good afternoon. Let's talk again about municipalism, in this case, with a motion from Ciutadans, which raises a spirit of protection and of providing resources for municipal competences and, therefore, we will vote in favour of practically all points, even though it is a new surprise coming from Ciutadans. Another time has passed for us, that some Members of your group and Members work with knowledge and will of consensus, but that plays with the policies that your party does with another hand, with the state or with some assembly, in the few places where there are directors or directors in Catalonia. We want to recognize, in this case, the work of Congressman Dimas Gragera, presenting a motion that has been able to seek these consensuses. We understand that it is also a statement of intent, for if at any time they really have the opportunity to rule in some assembly of some city or town of Catalonia, for the time being, they must limit themselves to giving support to the weak governments that the PSC has, which, as we have said before, is a joint that goes to the left, goes to the right, according to which it gives support. We have seen how Ciutadans has repeatedly positioned himself in Madrid, together with the Popular Party, in policies of re-centralisation of education, of taxes, for example, and how he voted against the transfer of skills and autonomy and finance to local authorities. We understand that, with this young man, they want to fill in the inaction of the Government of Esquerra and Junts for Cat, it is a highly contrasted, confirmed inaction that has enough support in this chamber, but, frankly, we believe that they are passing a little and that they abuse cynicism. Because, if the local world's concerned, in all its aspects, this young man would also talk about how the rule of spending on joint ventures or what the LRSAL has in the situation of joint ventures, and the importance of repealing it; he would talk about a financial reform; about managing common assets; about empowering the decentralisation and self-government of local institutions. But you have shown once and for all that you are not interested in these issues of decentralisation of competitions and of having local administrations proper to the powerful citizenry. His support and the fact that he's still asking for one time and another on 155... must know that 155 also affects the autonomy of Catalonia's assemblies, such as the Catalan Administration that they are. The Ciutadans Group, together with parties supporting the Government of the Generality, have voted here in Barcelona against some of the measures designed to protect and give rights to the citizenry, such as the public funeral home, such as the municipal dentist, such as the regulation of tourism, such as the 30_percent housing eligible for the new promotions. In the background, when it comes to giving tools and economic rights to the citizenry, they vote many times with Junts for Catalonia, for example. You use the motions of the local world to reposition the theme of the process, the theme of the flags, the theme of the grocs. Is it okay for me to stop talking about political neutrality and talking clearly about deep ties and concrete flags, or are they also against the flags that claim the right to embrace and the right to meet with dignity people who seek asylum in Catalonia? The assemblies need policies that have a positive impact on the life of the citizenry, which means greeting, education, social services, urbanism, security, but this implies autonomy and public management, not mortgage the common benefits to the economic benefit of large enterprises. Why do you do politics, right? That's why they're the IBEX 35 party, as you've seen many times, and as they came out quickly to say, please, a government of Pedro Sánchez with Albert Rivera. But you're not really a municipalist party, we don't just give it to us now, but there are, after all, some of your directors and directors, like Cadis, who have publicly said that Ciutadans lacked municipalism and that in public statements. In fact, you came up with a proposal to reduce the number of State meetings from eight to a thousand; this is the bet for municipalism and local administrations. Where there are opportunities for direct democracy, for co-management with social entities, for co-responsibility in policy management, you speak of "xiringuites and bureaucracy", which shows that you have never managed local assemblies and policies and governments. To the real demands of the territory of a more just financing, more competition and autonomy and more respect to the municipal institutions, which are the day-to-day ones, guarantee that the state of the welfare reaches the whole territory... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.225.0	Thank you, Mrs. Segovia. Then, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, the deputy Adriana Delgado has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.226.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon to everyone. Well, let me start by saying that it's a pleasure to be here again, after the maternity leave, a seventeen-week leave that I claim should be longer, and I also encourage all groups to work for a family reconciliation of truth. [[Greetings.]] Well, today, defending the papers that we have presented to the Ciutadans motion, we believe that this motion is based on Ciutadans electoral interest, we have seen it in this first intervention of the Ciutadans company, which I believe has almost begun the electoral campaign today, here in Parliament. And it makes obvious this opportunism, so, in the same text, for example, by addressing issues that have not been discussed and even approved by the plenary. We have been repeating it, I know it hard, but some have not wanted to deal with it or are forcing votes knowing that, from a band, or the government is already doing it, for example, by paying the joints and detailing the debt, so it doesn't feel like making a calendar that might run counter to, precisely, that detail of the debt; knowing that there is a debate in the mixed committee on the decisions that affect the Bressol schools, that here is where they are discussing the department and municipalist entities, with a calendar that has also been mentioned and a finance that has also been said; or also knowing that there is no pressure to execute it in the way they demand – because that's what they demand – when they didn't want to talk about the budget and they don't have any proposals for our resources. In change, they do accept some stuff, for example, in point 4, for when the presuppositional endowment is approved. Therefore, it is not clear, however, that it is important to mark this profile just before the municipal elections. The point of the PUOSC, in this motion, we will vote in favour, because, in fact, we have traded it, but it is almost 100% our goal, with our model of PUOSC, which is recovered because these municipalities have investments, can promote actions for territorial development. I also believe that in this young man it is obvious that he is unaware of the local world; I have shown point 6, when there are already several indicators, such as the Idescat, which work the information in a qualitative and quantitative way to plan and improve the effectiveness of public policies, but which have not wanted to address; or in the inconsistency of his speech to defend local autonomy, for example, we have now seen himself, with one of his hits, the attack on the AMI, which was also this morning, the councillor, asked and also seemed to be being questioned a while ago. So, this attack, precisely, runs counter to the local autonomy of the joints. The government does not have to make political control of the assemblies; the local plenums take decisions voting and these plenums are formed by representatives who have been democratically chosen by the people. But all this doesn't surprise us and, more importantly, bothers us, because we don't accept that we give lessons, you, about the defense of the locals. We are strong defenders of local autonomy, we believe in municipalism, in the policies most appropriate to the citizenry and, surely, most useful. We don't worry about gatherings only at the gates of local elections. Why don't they ask for the waiver of the LRSAL, which refocuses and retails local competitions? We come from the local world, we are in the local world, we travel through the local world, day by day, leading a lot of gatherings, and we have a lot of people doing it every day, every moment, every mandate, and so we will continue to work to make the municipalities an ingenious base that makes a huge effort to advance the country, to fight inequalities, to improve the life and well-being of the citizenry and to make transparency, honesty and democracy the foundations of local policies. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.227.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.228.0	Okay. Vice-President, Councillor, Members of Parliament, this late, Ciutadans brings us a motion that is another work of minor engineering, but of engineering of populism – tomorrow the electoral campaign begins and is known. But before I go deeper into it, I want to thank, yes, to Congressman Gragera – and it is no contradiction – the predisposition to the agreement, seeking us, passing information, with an attitude that is far away, that is, far from the hard official that you spend. What's on your chin? So, may you spread your hand, but the hand is covered with nettles or disembarks. And a hand full of nettles, as you will understand, cost to take. Because, in private, they are showing dialogues – now I admit it – and you, in change, then have no intention of keeping this dialogue in your exhibition and in your public attitude. I have the feeling that we are before – I have already said this – a new work of art of misrepresentation, even though I have seen better. They talk about the gatherings, they don't say that at the gatherings, Mayor Madrenas, they lack a fair financing, and end up talking, yes, like a song menu of anger, of the Association of Municipis for Independence. Go back to what's never to fall, forget the real world, see the reality. You talk about joints, you're fine, but you don't respect their autonomy, for example. They're also talking about what the generality gives to local governments. All right. And they say to what is obvious, that the government of the country should not owe a euro to the assemblies; they are right, it is true, will not find anyone in this room, in this government that can carry them the contract. But what about reality? And reality, where is it? Why the obvious? Why the hammock, the reality? That reality is very coughing. The reality is that Catalonia is a financially abused country, with an unworthy, entrepreneurial, unsustainable fiscal deficit, and you don't say that, that they do. Every year they fly, every year they fly, they 'nvan, they fly from Catalonia 16,500_million euros. Yes, sir: 16,500_million euros, and I will repeat so many times as calgui; 16,500_million euros. Hasn't it been clear to you? 16,500_million euros. But you know what? You know what? Seventeen thousand five hundred for two years is 165,000 million euros. I don't get stunned by 16,500 of a year, I get stunned by 165,000_million euros in a decade. So, why do they leave the reality behind? Why do they store this coughing reality? They have all the right of the world, fifteen days from the municipalities and a few hours from the beginning of the campaign, to present this poti-poti of measures and to present themselves as saviors of all and every assembly of Catalonia. But what about reality? Miri, now, I'm offering them a workout. Imagine us being brave and pushing, pacting and voting a young man, a decree, a resolution that says there's nothing in the world. So we can vote for her. But do you know what's going on? That by much decree of the Parliament of Catalonia, of the Congress of Deputies, of the Italian Senate, of the French Assembly, of the White House, we would fail, because there is one thing that is said reality. So the joints aren't short of anything? Sure. And you tell us, Junts per Catalunya: Deputy Solsona, Mayor of Mollerussa; Deputy Madrenas, Mayor of Girona; Deputy Erra, Mayor of Vic; Deputy Guinó, Mayor of Besalú; Deputy Batet, Mayor of Valls; Deputy Munell, Mayor of Ripoll; Deputy Roquer, Mayor of Borrassà. That at the gatherings they didn't lack nothing? Sure. Do we have to sign? But the country, with the country what do we do, with the country? A country punished, penalized for unworthy financing. I insist, what do we do with a finance that is a laziness, a remorse, a penalty for all the municipalities of this country, for the whole country, for all the citizens of this country, think as they think, viscose, a big, huge problem that affects all the citizens of this country? What do we do? Miri, you're trying to fix the barbed wires and the stairwell, and you're oblivious to the roof, to the point of falling, and to the fonations, which are punished, stressed and with high fatigue. And no, it's not the process, it's not Matrix, it's not Father Botero's boilers, it's all about reality, coughing reality. Spanish on glue, Spanish on tight, and you use them, ask them to tap reality with their speeches and motions that... distort reality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.229.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to fix its position, has the word, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Andrea Levy. [[Pause.]] Excuse me, yes, excuse me, I was wrong, and it is first the turn of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. Excuse me, Mrs. Levy, that I've skipped Mr. Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.230.0	Vice-President, to speak from the Escó. It is difficult to have a real policy on cooperation in the local world if we do not make the repeal of the LRSAL effective. We can hardly also make transformation policies in the assemblies, in our assemblies of the country, if we maintain the effective application of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, which, of course, the Government of the Generality of Catalonia is a student advanced in its concrete application. And, therefore, from the CUP - Crida Constituent of planting a municipalism of transformation, to which my company Carles Riera has already referred in the previous intervention, and, therefore, we will not repeat it. We do want to explain at least what it will consist of or why our vote to the present motion of the Citizens' Group. We will make a positive vote in most of the points, eight of the eleven points, among other questions, because we think that they can suppose elements of material transformation on our peoples, vile and city. And we can assume today, because of what we approve of here, which in the end is done, obviously, there is an important leap. We also want to say that we will abstain on a point, which is what refers to PUOSC, and not because we do not agree; we agree, but we think that it is more coherent than we abstain, because in another motion that concrete amounts we have voted in favour and, therefore, we believe that in this we should abstain. And we will vote against two very concrete questions that refer to the attack on ideological freedom and a concrete question of the model. The model is that we will not share the relationship where, for a band, coordination of Mossos d'Esquadra, National Police, Guardia Civil and Local Police with preventive action. This may have a posterior effect of the crime or on the crime, but it does not have a preventive action to minimize or reduce or eliminate the crime. And the last question we will vote against is what makes reference to the MAI. It may be for or against the MAI, but it must be our representatives in the assemblies who decide whether or not to join the MAI, beyond what the courts say, that we already know that they say some feelings that this is not part of the purpose of our assemblies. And for us this is the demonstration of what the Spanish State is: a state that does not allow an entity to have as its end independence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.231.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now yes, it is the turn of Congresswoman Andrea Levy, for the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.232.0	Thank you very much. Following the thread of the previous intervention, in which I stressed that the important thing for us to talk about how the services provided by local municipalities and corporations are properly financed was the presentation of that budget by the Government of the Generalitat..., and, as I have reiterated, in the last ten years, they have never been presented when they play. I heard one Member say that we did not want to discuss the proposal for budgets. Look, it's just that you didn't even deliver the budget, you didn't even teach or present the budget in this parliamentary chamber. He said: 'What can we do against the fiscal deficit, what can we do against this unjust financing? Man, then, for example, introduce the expert, introduce the member who played Catalonia to the Tax and Financial Policy Council, to which you refused, left the square empty, as you have done today, by the way, in the Interterritorial Health Council. I don't know, all Catalans don't have to be represented there either. I believe that perhaps, if you were to devote yourselves, instead of continuing to make that monotheme and constant complaint of the process, to go to places where the general interest of all Catalans can be defended, perhaps we would start by solving problems, and solving real problems. If before, in my initial speech, I have talked about those twenty-thousand students who must study in barracks because of the lack of funding that the Government of the Generalitat has towards them, we could talk, for example, at this time also – also – about the underfunding that the day care centers that depend on the Generalitat have. In the case of Pineda, for example, Pineda de Mar, the figure corresponding to the courses 2012, 2013, 14 and 15: 834,600_euros of accumulated debt, which is already endorsed by the judgment of the High Court of Justice, which has given them the reason for more than twenty-six complainant municipalities who rightly claimed these municipal subsidies for day care. I insist, the problem we have right now..., and this is not an electoral debate, this is a relevant debate; let's talk about the real problems, it will never be that electoral. But, above all, we can only do that debate if you do your part of the work, which is to present the budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.233.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Dimas Gragera, of the proposing group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.234.0	Thank you all for the speeches and for trying to reach consensus on what we could find a point of agreement; which, Mr Pujol, I think is positive, right? , even in private, that we can reach some agreements and that we disagree with education, with a sense of respect, in what we do not agree with. As far as the amendments are concerned, we have accepted almost all but one of them, in which you tell us to move the payment to the day-care centres to the joint committee; we demand it more vehemently, more immediately, because we believe it is peremptory. About allusions, comments... well, the PSC has told us that our motion is generic. You have presented one that had twenty-five points, but curiously those who referred to the MAI, to the neutrality of public space and to the defence of linguistic rights have been left behind. About Podemos, well, he's made us the typical mayor joke, but I'm going to personally make sure that joke is over in two weeks. [[Widow's remorse. Greetings.]] And we will try to have the maximum political representation. You try to retain your elected office and don't go to Republican Left. [[Greetings.]] Precisely, speaking of Republican Left, welcome [[Funnel veils]] Reincorporated. What we say to him is that it is not an electoral motion, and in any case politics is the opportunity, and if that serves to get them to approve what they have not been doing so far... In any case, electoralist is announcing the PUOSC when he has three calls on municipal politics and not having done so before. And if you have indicators about territorial vulnerability, what you have to do is use them. And lastly, Mr Pujol, I'm going to give you data that goes beyond that mantra of EUR 16,000 million. Look, what TV3 costs us could cover, for example, the budget of the City of Lleida and Badalona ; or with the 4,000_million_euro overcost of line 9 we could cover the budgets of the majority of municipalities of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.235.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.236.0	And that speech of peace in the world had to have been applied two years ago here in this Parliament. [[Greetings. Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.237.0	I am told, Mrs Segovia, that... there was no direct reference to the debate, but there was no direct reference to it; if any, there were contradictions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Do I ask for the word for allusions? But they've all gone along with everyone in the debate, I understand. [[Pause.]] All right. [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.238.0	To ask for separate vote: for one side, a block with points 1, 2 and 3, and a _second block with points 6 and 11.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.239.0	U, 2, 3, for a cost; 6 and 11, and the rest, huh? Mr. Aragonese, yes, I ask for the word per. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Is that what
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.240.0	President, for a separate vote on point 7, for a band, and points 10 and 11. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.241.0	Repeat the blocks, and see if they match the aspirations of all groups. There would be a first block with points 1, 2 and 3; another block with points 5 and 6; 7 for separate; 10 for separate, and 11 for separate. Yeah? And then the rest of the points, obviously. Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Five and six together, no; separate too, huh? [[Pause.]] Okay. All right, so we vote for the first block with points 1, 2 and 3. The vote begins – 1, 2 and 3. Points 1, 2 and 3 were approved by 68 votes in favour, against and 60 abstentions. We're voting now point number 5– point number 5. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved unanimously: 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 68 votes to 60, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote number seven. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 123 votes in favour, against, 4 abstentions and 1 Member present who has not voted. Let's now vote point number 10– point number 10. The vote begins. Point 10_has been approved by 124 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. Point 11 was rejected by 56 votes to 72, with no abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The remainder of the motion was adopted by 128 votes to none, with no abstentions. There are no more points of this young man. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into its relationship with local governments]] [[302-00100/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government about its relationship with local governments, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. She has the word, to defend her, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.242.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Before I begin, and as is the third motion on the local world, and before the interventions of the government groups in terms of electoralism, I will go ahead and ask if it is not electoralism the auto-bomb question, which is not of government control, which was made this morning to the proper government so that the council can speak, since I could not intervene in the motions of this late, or in the measures announced yesterday by the government. It seems like it's a lot easier to see... from the big one to the big one than the... backwards, sorry, the ball to the big one to the big one. And we don't know how many more measures we'll find here in May's municipal elections. And in this sense it is logical that when we are faced with municipal elections it is about municipalism and it is about the local world, above all because the assemblies are the Administration that is more responsible to the citizenry and that is more generous; it is offended by the state laws, it has already been spoken of, it is offended by the LRSAL, by the law of expense, but they are also offended to assume the competences that the Generality is refusing to assume and that all responsibility for the assemblies derives from it. Those who speak of sobriety should think clearly how their non-action and their non-politicals are offending the sobriety of the assemblies. It's true, the generality's debt with the joints is enormous. This must be acknowledged, and it has been recognized before, and yes, we can talk about the fiscal deficit, it is true, yes, it must be worked and it must be reduced and it must go together to the State to talk to Mr. Sánchez about the fiscal deficit, but it is also true that they can make a progressive and progressive tax reform in Catalonia that they do not want to do, and that would also give more resources to respond to the assemblies. But we don't want to talk about this; we're talking about the tax deficit. It is also curious the intervention of the deputy Pujol, who has left us in evidence that to what we speak in this Parliament, therefore, that nothing happens, because, if the reality is what it is, we can already go on motions and resolutions that the government has nothing to apply to them because there is a reality that has nothing to do with what we are talking about here in Parliament. So we come to talk about municipalism; we come to talk about what this Parliament approves one time and another and the Government, that it does have skills and that it will hold back this Parliament is denied to implement; we come to talk about the warm spring, about all the skills that the Republican Left Councils are not doing – an 80_percent of the Generality's premise in the hands of the Republican Left and it doesn't –; about everything that this Government doesn't do to take over the joints, so that it takes over the joints and gives answers to the joints and the citizenry means, for example, to allow it to have the necessary tools to limit the amount of habitat in front of the pujas that are given in the Joints and the City, as well as the Council; Let us not fail to recall the failed intention – it has already been mentioned – of the decree of measures for the emergence of housing, of the new decree, which Mr. Calvet tried without any support or coordination with the local authorities. Taking over the joints is also giving the tools and capabilities and resources so that they can be remunerated, so that they can guarantee that water, a right, is a public service, but, oh surprise! , the PDECAT Group voted against the multi-consultation in Barcelona to see whether Barcelona's citizens can decide whether or not to remunicipalise water. Democracy is, we mean democracy is, but it's about what and it's about what it's about. Municipalism is to provide resources for the struggle against male violence; we have not spoken many times in this House, many measures have been approved that continue to try to bring it down. Municipalism is also the PUOSC and other necessary co-financing tools, which until now we didn't have, but, ops! , now it seems that yes – this doesn't have to be electoralism. Municipalism is to make institutions respond to vulnerable people, to assume their responsibility, and not to treat them and insult them in the processing of guaranteed citizenship income. And, above all, municipalism is not small politics; municipalism is the policy of important things. Municipalism is offended by a central government that does not derogate from the LRSAL and that maintained the rule of spending, approved with Junts for Catalonia, and a generality installed in the laissez-faire. It is possible to prioritize social cohesion, it is possible to dignify cures and to put resources there, it is possible to dispute housing to the great commons and return to the citizenry the exercise of rights such as access to water, public water management and quality public education from the first months of life, assuming the responsibilities of the Government of the Government of Catalonia; it is a question of priorities and political will, and if we are to refer to what we have seen in this year and my term of office, in this year and a short period of office, the only one who wants to transfer his government, his irresponsibility to the joints. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.243.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, it is now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.244.0	Thank you, President. The first point of the motion speaks of the LRSAL, and I would like to make it clear that we share the need to repeal it. So we don't need to read more programs or anything anymore, because we're already on it, huh? We're already on it. The socialists also advocate a reform of the local law because it is possible to strengthen local autonomy and it guarantees a system of stable and proportional financing both in those competences well defined for the municipalities as compared to those that are not close, but, as expected, can develop without compromising the fiscal stability with guarantees of control and transparency of the civil service. We share that it is necessary to promote a new law of local heritage which provides for the establishment and resources of the skills assumed by local authorities in a coordinated manner with autonomous financing, it is true. We are also defending the reversal of the surplus and the reform of the municipal expenditure fund, which we have been demanding for years; it is necessary to change or eliminate the presuppositionary legislation in order to be able to invest with its surplus. Therefore, we need the flexibility of the roadblock and the spending rule whenever the municipality overtakes, give an immediate exit to the meetings that are in a failed position to finance and review the help plans and payments to suppliers depending on the current economic circumstances. It is clear, however, that the Generalitat, it is said, this Government, must promote an integral plan against the occupation of habitats that accompany the joints making the empty floors cease to be so and complete their social function, making it easier for people who do not have a suitable habitat to dispose of one. It would also be useful to encourage cooperation with the municipalities in the framework of this plan, where the inspection and control of empty floors are delegated with resources, as well as the sanctioning capacity emanating from the 2007 Housing Law. I would also like to talk about the subject of the fight against masculinist rape, which has not been discussed today, and therefore I will devote a moment and to talk about it, because it is very important. And, therefore, only remember that the Socialist Government agreed to the criteria for the allocation of 100_million euros corresponding to the communities provided for in the state pact, and at the beginning of August it approved a royal decree, already validated unanimously to the Congress of Deputies, that returns the competences to the joints in the promotion of equality and the fight against gender violence, and establishes the allocation of 20_million euros, and that is expected to be due the next year. What do we ask? So, obviously, the Generalitat also provides us with adequate resources. That's what we're asking. In relation to children and young migrants who are not accompanied, in the local world, such as those who are closest to and familiar with their own territory, coordinated with the DGAIA..., these institutions should be the key institutions in the gathering and integration of this collection. It must therefore be the responsibility of the Generality to offer the necessary resources to the municipality in order to resolve the complex situations for which it is responsible for the supervision and protection of these minors. More resources can be devoted to addressing situations of vulnerability in order to maintain coexistence and social cohesion. I have just said that we have made various papers to the motion of Catalonia in Comú Pode, but unfortunately we have not been able to agree on the papers presented and we regret that it could not be possible, despite the fact that many times we do find agreement in many of the papers that we have made, but this time we have not shared it and we really regret that it is not in value of the papers that we have presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.245.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament Mònica Palacín has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.246.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. So... and there's no two without three, right? I'll tell you what, three motions we're carrying today. This, the last motion referring to the local world, presented by the municipal group of Barcelona in Comú [[Funnel veils]] ...well, let me just say it, huh? , with a lot of "kindness, but really..., and it does not happen, therefore, that it is a very focused youth – and certain points of this youth so mark – that can be guided by the municipal group. And, as I say, it doesn't happen, because really the municipal world is the one that marks the day-to-day interests, concerns and what our greatest concern is to be like public servants from all over the city. Yours..., yours, these motions, are motions that you've already voted on in this chamber; in some cases, approved motions haven't even been in a year. So, if there are any motions approved a year ago... and we haven't given ourselves an opportunity or, unfortunately, have the necessary assumptions to do so... but despite that today they are back on the table. And obviously they turn into a local key for pure electoralism at the gates of a municipal campaign in which everyone has the legitimacy to do what you think. They're very similar motions. In many ways it seems that it's not... it's like when we debate, as when our positions seem very long in public debates... but in these three motions, black on white, they're as and so much alike to each other. And we, mirin, come from the local world, we go for public policies every day from gatherings where we govern, but also from those where we are at opposition in a very dignified way. And there are always things to improve, and it is obvious, but not only are the promises, the promises to the territories, the promises to our municipal groups, but also, as public servants and representatives of Parliament, also, that of the parliamentary groups that present these motions also need to seek their self-criticism so that they do not help to have some assumptions in order to be able to endure these policies. And, Mrs. Segovia, I must thank you for the acceptance of the emena, right? , of all the emenas, of the emenas, but of the transactions as well. I, therefore, thank you very much. From his youth, you are afraid to point out, because there are many, but you are afraid to point out..., it is, obviously, the repeal of the LRSAL, this law that penalizes us constantly, at the gatherings; a law that has also been here approved its derogation in some Ple, in this hemisphere; that has also defended itself from the assemblies, from the municipalist entities. the need to repeal it, and that the Socialist Party carried it like the flag in many of its speeches but that in the deity of Government Sánchez was not able. So, so, let's just hope that it's all right now. Many other points that, as we say, are important..., as the rule of spending, therefore, adjust it, this is essential, because this lacks much of a good municipal management at the gatherings. We share petitions such as social emergency tables, resources against male violence, vetting for the compliment of hydraulic planning, not remunicipalization, because we consider that creating another tool for such a..., that competence that is purely municipal, you want to create a tool to control it, and it seems lied, when you, from Barcelona, defend so much local autonomy. For some things yes, for some things no. The local autonomy, which in a very concrete point you ask for the participation of the local administration in the Council of Fiscal Policy and Finance. We cannot do this, among other things, because the multilateral relationship of local authorities is, in this case with the State, the National Commission of Local Administration. There's already one of us. Therefore, we cannot need the work that the Generalitat does in this case for another band. I, miri, I hit the Pineda de Mar. I am proud to be a public servant of pinewoods and pinewoods, and from this Faristol it is an honor to be able to speak of municipalism, because, for us, of municipalism, of the republican arena, we want to continue working together, from here, from any of the administrations, so as to make worthy policies, that no one is left behind in our assemblies. And, above all, old age because no one, as I say, lies back on social rights, and guarantees all the services. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.247.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Congresswoman Saloua Laouaji has the words. [[Saloua Laouaji Faridi]] Hey, nice late. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, on the position of my parliamentary group, Junts per Catalunya, in relation to the motion following the question to the Government on its relationship with local governments, I would like to stress that we, as a parliamentary group, our priorities are the right to self-determination and fair social policies, because we share the principles and objectives of dignity, equality and freedom of citizenship of our country. In relation to the Law of the State 27/2013, of 27 December, of rationalization and sustainability of the local administration, we consider that it invades the competences of the local administrations and violates exclusive competences, recognized to the State of autonomy of Catalonia, of the Generality. In addition, it is a law used for 90 per cent of the municipalities of Catalonia. The Congress of Deputies has approved on various occasions initiatives to place the central government to repeal this law and to draw up a new law. And we are also in favour of your derogation. Yes, its derogation, the derogation from the LRSAL. The PSOE government, despite the fact that some of the initials were in place, did not do so in the months leading up to the execution, nor did it repeal the law on bites, the LOMCE, the permanent prison that can be reviewed or many other things. And now we'll see about that. In fact, in its 2019 election program, unlike what it was in 2016, it no longer appears to derogate from the LRSAL law, but only to modify it. In conclusion, this law, the Law of Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Administration is an attack on municipal and general autonomy, and on the ability to serve citizens. Together for Catalonia, what we defend, like the Government, is to recover the debate of the Law of Local Governments and to promote from the Catalan Government the local financing of the municipalities of Catalonia. At the territorial level, the Government has adopted an important agreement in the field of promoting economic growth and the improvement of the standard of living in all the territories of our country, with the approval of the bases of the Strategy for Territorial Dynamization, which aims to generate opportunities through economic activity and the shared involvement of the areas of Catalonia affected by unemployment, population ageing and rural depopulation. Within the framework of strengthening social and territorial cohesion through work with the local world, a shared diagnostic on the main problems will be carried out jointly with each territory, and the possible solutions that allow them to grow economically, diversify their local economy and improve their standard of living and employment will be worked bilaterally. More cohesion, less inequality and more progress in a broad sense, and, in an individual and collective sense, it is also stronger than democracy and human rights. The Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Damià Calvet, has already explained that he has the will to open the debate to develop a comprehensive housing law, because he considers that we have a dispersion of regulations, in addition to the basic regulation of the State. And to Mrs. Colau I'd like to say that the fact of being a right-to-habitat activist may have helped her get to the mayor of Barcelona, and probably her frac as mayor in this specific area, in terms of housing, will contribute significantly to the disappointment and loss of confidence of a significant part of the citizens of Barcelona. In relation to the subject of male violence, it is one of the Government's priorities. And we, as the government, will not take a step back in the struggle for the right of women in front of the hate speech of the ultra-threat masculist and fascist. The Government has given green light to the reversal, this year, of 32_million euros for measures to eradicate the male-based rapes included in the Second Comprehensive Intervention Programme against the male-based rapes 2019-2020. Although many of the themes of the young man are us, we will vote, let's say, in favor of most of the points. We consider that many of the issues raised are a cause for concern, because still the perspective of equality and social justice...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.248.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman. [[Saloua Laouaji Faridi]] ...doesn't permeate all our social policies. And why it is necessary to force the autonomy of the municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.249.0	Ahabi, Congresswoman. [[Saloua Laouaji Faridi]] ...and ensure a stable and proportional financing system, strengthened competitions... [[The first vice president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.250.0	His turn's over, Congresswoman. His turn's over. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, MEP Mari Luz Guilarte has the words. [[Maria Luz Guilarte Sánchez]] Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen of Catalonia in Comú Puem, let me tell you that it is quite a dare that after four years ruling – to locks and ravines, that is – in Barcelona, with a management full of breaches and collateral damage to the citizens, now come to tell us that they have the solution to all municipal problems. Although it is to be thanked for his willingness to deal with this motion, that was also what I wanted to say. But, well, the important thing is to know what you've been doing for the past four years in all the municipalities where you've ruled. You met with power without being prepared to take over and have had the municipal administration paralyzed for much of the term, which has led Mrs. Colau in Barcelona, for example, to beat the record in reprobations to a mayor throughout the history of democracy. And now you're talking about defending the interests of local governments. To defend those interests, for example, we must start by participating in the calls of the Government's Fiscal and Financial Policy Committee, which, to you, does not seem to affect you very much when the members of the Government do not appear here. But, well, you, for all kinds of misconceptions, have for good always future be with them. Even so, the first to defend the interests of the municipalities are the municipalities themselves. But you have not recognized the whole, much less claimed, in four years the scandalous debt of more than 200_million_of_euro that the Generalitat has with the City Council of Barcelona and, therefore, with all the citizens. Start over there, complain, and you [[Addressing the Government]] Please pay. And how has your management been at the head of the most important city council in Catalonia? Well, it translates into a chilling and embarrassing balance. Budgets, four years without approving any or extending them or approving them on grounds of trust. The definition of social spending that you and you have made has meant an increase in the irrigation of subsidies to entities and platforms of political activism similar to your populism. And, in addition, they have been pleased to promote the illegal sale of forgery or the top blanket, behind which organized mafias of exploitation of people hide. A total of 1_million_and_half_of_euros is what Mrs Colau has given you, while for the economic promotion of the city you have budgeted 1,900,000_euros. And what does this mean? This means that its municipal government practically equates SMEs and the autonomous with the mafia. Lifting the blind, paying taxes and creating wages have fewer advantages and you are much more crushed than if you are engaged in the illegal sale and occupation of space illegally, as, say, understood by the lords of the commons. Look, making social policies means not harming the economy of the city by promoting tourismphobia, fined the shops, closing terraces, paralysing the city with blackmailist camps of its fellow citizens or making it a counterpart of the reactionary right of Mr Torra, whose xenophobic and supremacist talent has been denounced by the main parties of the European Parliament, of those that have caused the flight of thousands of companies, investments or the loss of opportunities at an incalculable cost to this city. To make social policies is to create favourable conditions for SMEs and self-employed people to create jobs, it is to have a fair and balanced system of taxes, because Barcelona has the worst and one of the highest of all Spain. Making social policies also means having a social housing park for the most vulnerable groups; you promised eight_ thousand and seven hundred have come out in the light. Here, in default, you go very close to the Government of the Generalitat – as in everything that ends up as a disaster – which has not met the percentage of construction that corresponds to it. There are more than four hundred families who have allocated housing by the Social Emergency Table and have not been allocated. Illegal settlements throughout the city proliferate to them. Almost a thousand people sleep on the street every night in Barcelona. Crime has also increased by 21_per_cent in 2018 in this city and by 18,4_per_cent in sexual crimes. And in the meantime, what did the mayor do? So never join the Urban Guard, reducing numbers and resources. So the conclusion is that you, who came to this consistory as activists, are going to leave like that caste to which you have so much criticized, which is the only thing that you have completed successfully. Look, the strength of this city is incredible, but it needs a capitalist, European project, open to the world, which faces the futility of populism and exclusionary nationalism. In Barcelona, what is needed is clear leadership, a project with a well-defined strategy and objectives, and a professional management capacity, which boosts public-private collaboration and cross-cutting and inclusive policies, and puts citizens at the centre of municipal policies. So all I have to tell you is to do you the favor of opening up, because we will make Barcelona the great, prosperous, safe, welcoming and social city that all your citizens need. Thank you very much. [[The First Vice-President]] Mrs. Guilarte, I see myself under the obligation to call you to order for the expressions you made here in the Faristol addressed to the President of the Generality, and why so do you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Next, to fix her position, the deputy Maria Sirvent has the word, on behalf of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. [[Maria Sirvent Escrig]] Well, good afternoon. Today we have appointed three deputies to bring the three motions of local governments to the table of one of the places we have down here and we have begun to read all the points. The truth is that most of them seemed right to us, they seemed good to us, with quite generic writings, which we share. This motion speaks in concrete terms of the LRSAL, it speaks of the rule of expenditure and fiscal and financial policy. All these legal instruments of the legal order and this way of hearing how to finance the assemblies or their local autonomy are not random; what they claim is to relegate the administration that is closest to the citizenry to a practically administrative decentralisation area and that does not have the capacity to make political decisions. Why? So if the assemblies have the ability to make political decisions and are transferred this ability to these institutions so fit for the citizenry, the citizenry would have much more control over what is decided in political institutions. And, therefore, this way of extending the centres of decision of the citizenry and of re-centralizing power is a strategy more than capitalism. Today we want to value the work done by the educational community in order to be able to claim a service of public school teachers; the work done by the people in the municipality with plataforms in defense of public services; the workers in the service of home care; the workers in the service of clean municipal buildings; those who claim public transport and quality to the municipality; the work done by the PAH; the work done by the trade unions of locators, with their political militancy, and that every day – every day – what they do is to face these institutional limits. And what we want is for the gatherings to be transformational, for the benefit of these social movements. And that's why we need to cross limits and that's why there's institutional disobedience and civil disobedience that can overcome these limits that this young man presents to us today.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.251.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To position himself, now is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Mrs. Andrea Levy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.252.0	Thank you very much. Third motion on the same issues on which I am speaking and, therefore, I will try to change the script by focusing on the first point of this motion in question. Does the LRSAL respect municipal autonomy? Yes, and as much as you continue to lie, as much as you repeat a lie, it will not become true. "It sets as its main objective to empower the local administration, in terms of administration closer to the citizen, by establishing the precise mechanisms to allow the exercise of local competences, in accordance with the principles of budgetary stability – I repeat: "budgetary stability, which is the same as what is chirriar in their ears –" and financial sustainability, as a better guarantee of their continuity. It also implements a model of results management and management evaluation and establishes the publication of the cost of services – just as it is good for taxpayers, those who pay for the services you decide to implement in the local world, to know exactly what the price of these services is – "as a basic measure that will provide the necessary information to the citizen, who will thus compare in terms of management the services you receive and being able to evaluate their representatives. Is this what concerns you about LRSAL? - I'm asking. "For the first time, municipal powers are established to prevent municipalities from resuming competences that do not belong to them. Thus, the so-called improper powers, assumed improperly and which were causing serious economic damage to the municipalities, are suppressed. Municipal competences are updated, giving priority to the provision of compulsory services, regardless of the place of residence of citizens. This guarantees the right to minimum municipal services. So, does the LRSAL respect municipal autonomy? Yeah, I'll tell you again. This is not electoralism. This is simply doing good municipal management and not spending more of what you have, which is electoralism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.253.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And now, finally, to position herself on the papers presented, has the new word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.254.0	Thank you. In the first place I also want to thank the people with whom we have been able to work this young man, the third. Indeed, many of the themes were repeated to various of the motions that have come forward. We also have to ask ourselves why, because surely the themes are shared, as the concern of the assemblies and municipalities of different colors, and I am sure that even all the assemblies of the Republican Left and of the Joints for Catalonia, PDECAT, would coincide in many of the aspects that we have proposed here. But, said that, I think in many cases it has been noticed that the people who have worked there work and come from the municipal world, and that's nice. To the PSC, on the repeal of the LRSAL, therefore, welcome you continue. Let's move from word to word. There, they don't do like the government of the generality and they really do make us the derogation. Most of them have it; there is no excuse for not doing it in the first months of office. By the way, speaking of the LRSAL, thank Congresswoman Levy for having made an intervention to defend the LRSAL and for having fun. Indeed, its parliamentary power does not have waste. In Esquerra Republicana, it is not a movement of the municipal group of Barcelona in Comú, it is a movement of the municipalism, of program. Remunicipalization needs an office to help those gatherings that don't have the resources to do so; it's a long debate. We think that this is not electoralism, that it is putting priorities and policies forward. Together for Catalonia, with the issue of housing... – and I apologize to Congresswoman Saloua, who finally couldn't answer the messages, and I had to say it too – with the decree that they had to withdraw, it's that they can't talk about housing policies; I know very hard. Councilman Calvet said that the joints were being piled up behind the Generality. But if the generality isn't there, in housing policies! And to Ciutadans I will tell you that you must think that this is the beginning of the electoral campaign, and the number 2 of Mr Valls, who is not listening to me, has used this to savor his campaign speech, but that you know that you have nothing to do in Barcelona, that, despite having imported a failed policy from France, you will also continue to fail this time in Barcelona. Thank you. [[You're saying, "Very good! The applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.255.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Sirvent?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.256.0	Yes; to ask for over-voted points 1, 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.257.0	What can they vote together? [[Maria Sirvent I am speaking without using the microphone.]] Each one separately, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. Any other petitions? [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.258.0	A block that would group points 11.1 and 12, and another block that would group points 4, 5, 6, 7.2, 7.3, 8.1, 10.2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.259.0	All right. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.260.0	Also to ask for separate vote from point 4 and point 11.1. Thank you. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.261.0	Say'm, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.262.0	Yes; on a point of order, Mr President. The citizen speaker has been interrupted for saying the following words, which I reproduce textually, which are... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The speaker has been called to order. « Talante xenophobo y supre..., « making up for Mr Torra's reactionary right, whose xenophobic and supremacist talent has been denounced by the main parties of the European Parliament. This is a fact that has happened, that this, rhetorical, in English, "xenophobic and supremacist, was denounced by the three main parties of the European Parliament. And we are already beginning, let's say, to be very concerned about the attitudes that are sometimes held by the person who holds the presidency, preventing things from being said that are done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.263.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.264.0	And I want to know whether there is a criterion, which will be interrupted whenever something is said that is a fact, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.265.0	Mr. Carrizosa, I have already commented to the Board of Spokespersons that we would actually make a finding – we haven't been able to do it yet – with the Spokespersons to review how the agreement that we have reached all parliamentary groups applies, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.266.0	Yes, but in the meantime, something is being implemented that is not applicable, because it does not fall within the scope of that agreement. It is not disrespect that we would have outlawed in that agreement, it is not disrespect, it is the narration of pure and simple facts. It's censorship.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.267.0	Mr. Carrizosa, I've already told you what he does in the case: that we talked about it at the Board of Spokesmen, I tried to do it before the plenary, it wasn't possible before this plenary, but in any case we would certainly do it for later plenarys, in order to concretely implement exactly how the agreement that, for another band, we agreed, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.268.0	It seems very good to me, and only two things, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.269.0	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.270.0	...in the meantime, which is not censored, and second, which is never going to be permissible in a democratic parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.271.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.272.0	...is that censored...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.273.0	...we're not going into a debate. Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.274.0	...the expression of pure and hard facts, which is what you have done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.275.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.276.0	...the citizen speaker.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.277.0	...that's it, all right. [[Greetings.]] Here we go. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.278.0	Votacions separades also from points 3 and 12, for one side, and for another, from 1, 2, 4 and 11.1, for another side. And then for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.279.0	If I can repeat it again, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.280.0	Three to 12, for one cost; 1, 2, 4 and 11.1...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.281.0	Doesn't coincide, no of the proposals you've made... Therefore, we will re-vote all points separately, because it is impossible to group them together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.282.0	Okay. On a point of order, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.283.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.284.0	No, in the same way that Mr Carrizosa was speaking, on the part of our group we have not heard that the honourable Member has incomplete the agreements that were adopted between the spokespersons concerning insults to people, and therefore we do not find the call to be made to the order that has been made.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.285.0	All right. Thank you, Congressman. Let's vote, then, point by point, this young man. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 89 votes to 38, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 120 votes to 3, with 4 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 60 votes to 64, with 3 abstentions. Let's now vote point 3.1. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] One moment – one moment. Just a moment... calm down. [[Pause.]] Now. The vote begins. At point 3.1, there was a tie of 63 votes: 63 in favour, 63 against. So let's re-vote point 3.1. Let us repeat the vote, 3.1. The vote begins. Point 3.1_has been rejected by 63 votes to 64, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 13 votes in favour, 33 against, 80 abstentions and 1 Member present who has not voted. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 67 votes to 59 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. Vote Begins Point 6_has been approved by 32 votes to 95. And now we're voting point 7.1–7.1. The vote begins. Point 7.1_has been approved unanimously; that is to say, 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting now on point 7.2. The vote begins. Point 7.2 was approved by 67 votes to 60. We're voting point 7.3 now. The vote begins. Point 7.3 was approved by 67 votes to 60. We're voting now point 8, which wasn't asked... yeah, point 8.1... 8.1 for separate, huh? Therefore, we vote first on point 8.1. The vote begins. Point 8.1_was approved by 67 votes to 60. And now we're going to vote on point 8.2. The vote begins. Point 8.2_has been approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting point number 9 now, in which case no vote has been asked for separately in the subpoint, so we're voting point 9 together, huh? – conjunction of point 9. The vote begins. Point 9, in its conjunction, has been approved by 127 votes in favour, against and against; that is, unanimously. And now we're going to vote point number 10.1–10.1. The vote begins. Point 10.1 was approved by 127 votes to none, with no abstentions. Let's move on to vote on point 10.2. The vote begins. Point 10.2 was adopted by 67 votes to 60. Let's now vote on point 10.3. The vote begins. Point 10.3 has been approved by 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's move on to vote on point 10.4. The vote begins. Point 10.4 was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's now vote point 11.1 – 11.1. The vote begins. Point 11.1 was rejected by 12 votes to 98, with 17 abstentions. We now vote on 11.2 – 11.2. The vote begins. Point 11.2 has been approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 12. The vote begins. Point 12 was approved by 64 votes to 59, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on the trestle point. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 92 votes to 35, with 35 abstentions. There are no more points in this young man. [[Question to the Government on the improvement of the management of the disappearance of persons and the support of families]] [[300-00123/12]] So let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the government about the improvement of the management of the disappearance of people and support to families, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. In order to explain the question, Mr Rafel Bruguera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.286.0	Thank you, Mr. President. He will advise, advise, deputies and deputies, two of the German Órrit, underage, and disappear in 1988 from a hospital in Manresa, soon to be thirty years old. The seventeen-year-old, Cristina, disappeared from Cornellà de Llobregat in 1997, twenty-two years ago. Maria disappeared in 2004 at the Scale, she was seventy-six years old. In Martos, from Santa Coloma de Cervelló, disappeared in a forest of Lleida on November 2017, he was eighty-two years old. The Óscar, from Santa Coloma de Gramenet, disappeared on July of last year, was thirty-eight years old. None of these people have been located alive or dead yet. I would like to thank the presence, in the guest gallery, of representatives of the Inter-SOS and Afades associations, of relatives of disappeared persons, as well as some of the relatives of the people I have commented on. I also want to thank the visibility and social awareness that are due to the end of several Catalan meetings. Some years ago, such as the Prat de Llobregat or Cornellà de Llobregat; others, more recently, such as the Santa Coloma de Cervello and Santa Coloma de Gramenet. All of them supporting families and approving motions and institutional statements. Counselor, today we want to discuss this with you, a problem that blurs the lives of the people who suffer from it, but that is very socially invisible, except for some cases that, dramatically, arrive at the communication media – and today we have a proof, more clearly, of two clear proofs, so I say – of the missing people. I also want to make a point of the institutional declaration, to be fair, made by this Parliament, the Parliament of Catalonia, solemnly on March 2, 2016. Why does a person disappear? Basically we could divide it, to make it simple, between voluntary disappearance and involuntary disappearance. Disappearing, voluntary absence in principle – in principle – is not a crime. I don't go in any further, because there would be cases in which I do, but, in principle, it's a right that the person has, to be absent from his home. For what it does to involuntary disappearances, also to make it simple, we could divide them into disappearances as a consequence of an accident, of a traffic accident, air, a flood of snow, a shipwreck, a natural catastrophe, etcetera. A disappearance as a result of a crime is a kidnapping, a kidnapping, a murder, a murder. And what normally happens to a disappearance without apparent cause, is to say, without there being an objective, known reason, suspected that there has been any of the other causes that I have commented on. And the figures are pretty eloquent and disturbing. Every year in Spain, twenty-five thousand people are reported missing. In Catalonia the year 2018 will be recorded 4,500, a midjana of 370 each month, twelve every day, and if they fly, one every two hours. 94_percent of the cases, fortunately, are resolved before one_month, which, in any case, does not take anxiety and patience to the family. We are talking about similar figures, and even in some cases higher, to victims of traffic accidents or, even, gender-based violence. Since 2014, the date of the creation of the Office of Assistance to Families of Disappeared Persons of the Mossos d'Esquadra, certainly created at the time of Mr. Ramon Espadaler as the Councillor d'Interior, there have been a total of 19,800 complaints, of which the Mossos have opened 741 dispatchers to follow up on it. And a given to remember – and I'll talk about it a few minutes later – 52 percent of people who disappear have some kind of malaise or mental or neurodegenerate disorder; to hear us, Alzheimer's or the like. And this xifra increases to 63_per_cent when we talk about big, older people. It would also be unfair if we did not recognise that these last few years, these last years, have made important advances, both at the level of the Spanish State and at the level of Catalonia. There have been initiatives that have improved the search, investigation and attention to family members, but, counselor, there is still a lot of room to seek and a lot of work to be done by public administrations. And when I hear the problem of the disappearance of people will not be addressed in a comprehensive and comprehensive way until it is considered a state problem, as has been done, for example, with traffic accidents or male violence. There are, of course, questions that are state competence – this is obvious: the update of Instruction 1/2009; the Secretary of State of Security; looking at legal terms in the judicial expediency such as, for example, the declaration of legal absence, the name of guardian or the declaration of death; the unification and digitization of certain data bases such as, for example – may surprise you in some of you – the Spanish State does not have a unified database of deaths, which is a little paradoxical; the Law of Protection of Personal Data, which from my point of view and for humanities reasons should be modified, etc. In short, at the level of the Spanish State at these times is in a very interesting debate respecting the need to have a status of the missing person. It seems, for the information I have and for some contact and some visit even and to participate in a parliamentary day at the Congress of Deputies a few months ago, that it seems that this legislature, effectively, the parliamentary groups have confabulated because it is the legislature in which at the level of the Spanish State we have a statue of the missing person. But we can also do things from our competitive mark, counselor. I will not raise three, only three, very concrete. In the first place, the Office of Assistance to the Family of Disappeared Persons is sublimated for what it does to human resources. If a person calls 937 137 137, which is the number of the office, it can be found very easily that behind the phone there is a machine, there is an automatic answering machine and not a function and not a person who supports it. And there's more rumors – rumors – about whether or not the office is meant to be something different from what it is now. Therefore, in this sense, counselor, I ask you: what will we do with it, what will you do with the office? Will you provide it with sufficient human and economic means so that you can carry out the important task entrusted to you? Second place, second question, prevention. You may think: "Home, how can you prevent a person from disappearing? I've commented before, 52 percent of people who disappear have some kind of neurodegenerate disorder and in people over sixty-five years of age 63 percent. Therefore, we have a population of risk, we know that there is a population at risk of absence, at risk of disappearance. In the 21st century, therefore, there are many technologies in place to be able to make prevention policies through, therefore, some geolocation mechanism, etc. Even so there is an important security company that, through an important banking entity, is coming – I've left myself in the loop – some watches..., right? Therefore, I mean that they have discovered, made a study of the market, that there is no business; otherwise, they would not do it. Therefore, we need to develop a prevention protocol based on an information and training programme aimed at basic social services, primary care centres, in short, also professionals dealing with these types of patients, to inform families, family members, about these technological resources. And finally, counselor, as the third question..., that for the time I remain I seem to leave it for the second intervention, but I summarize it: creation..., from our point of view it is necessary to create an interdepartmental commission or a work table to deal with these types of questions and not with the competitions of the Mossos d'Esquadra, but from the more global, more social point of view. But, I repeat, I will disaggregate it a little more in the second intervention. In short, counselor, through this inquiry and the motion that we will continue to pretend that the Government places among its political priorities the problem of the disappearance of persons, and not only from the department that it presides, but from the joint government, in an integral, cross-cutting and inter-disciplinary manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.287.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then, in response to the inquiry, the word "Interior Counselor", Mr. Miquel Buch, has the word "Interior Counselor".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.288.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Also a greeting to the family members and representatives of the entities that they are going to see for the people who have suffered some disappearance from some family member or someone they know. Cases of disappearances of persons without the existence of an apparent motive are of great concern, as you have explained very well, Member, in society, both from the family perspective and around the missing person, but also from the legal and criminal perspective, right? And what I'm doing is asking them to get empathized with a situation, right? We may think that we are peers, that suddenly our daughter or our child returns to us many hours ago that we don't know anything about her or her, that we trick her and don't answer her, that we send messages and don't answer them, that we trick her around her friends, that they say many hours ago that they don't see her, and so let's say, to us as peers, therefore, there's a concern, there's a concern, there's a concern, there's an impacting element, isn't there? That's where our son or daughter is going to be. I have given him the example of a son or a daughter, but we can talk about a brother, a father, a mother, a friend, a friend, a mother, an avia, an avi... Therefore, it is an element that generates much concern among the people who suffer it, between the Catalans and the Catalans who suffer this evil disappearance, even though it is, as you have said, for a few hours, but these few hours are an eternity for those who suffer it. And we no longer have examples of what you mentioned at the beginning of your intervention, of those years ago and years ago who are people who have disappeared. Therefore, the patience is made worse in time. It's one of the examples I was able to copy into a meeting I had with the Afades entity, huh? , which we met a few weeks ago, or even the other day, he also had a conversation with Congressman Castel in a specific situation of a specific person who also suffered. And I share with you that the Public Administration – the Public Administration – must be old enough to deal with these points or situations in a singular way, in an individualized way, and it is not only necessary to do so from the future police, which is what, therefore, I am close to explaining to me, even though today I will refer a lot to the future police. But I share it with you, and I hope that, in the motion, we will certainly remember it and find a good fi..., so, take a more transversal element from here, because the escort of people who have suffered a disappearance of some family member or friend also goes through a psychosocial escort, goes through a legal and legal escort, and also goes through the search for the person, and also goes through the first intervention that we do when a person sees a Mossos commissioner to report, but also goes through other camps, that surely the policeman is not the best, and there are other councils, and in this case, therefore, surely, we could do, with an interdepartmental plea, as you proposed, a better job. In any case, four dice we're coming from. It is true, I had pointed out as, on April 1, 2014, with the advisor Swordler in the front, he pulled forward the Office of Assistance to Families of Disappeared Persons, and it was a point of inflection to the Spanish State; we were pioneers, Catalans were pioneers to pull forward an office of these characteristics, right? In fact, 2016 is going to receive an award for the best police action of 2016, atorgat for the European Foundation for Missing Persons. So, somehow, let's say, we did, we got a pick in Flanders. Now, five years later, what we're probably close to is checking if what we're doing is doing well and how we can improve what we can't do, what we're not doing well, or how we can go far beyond what we're doing. You've done a classification of disappearances, and I'll touch it a little bit: it's the volunteers, it's the non-volunteers, and here we'll make a third, that's the criminals, huh? , or forces; in case of kidnapping, they are missing persons, but these would have a window..., and at the police level we have a specific area that is dedicated to these disappearances, which are the criminals or the forces. In the volunteer camp we would talk, as you said, about adults with psychological, economic, family problems... even we can talk about suicides. In the case of minors, we would talk about escapoliments, which have a differential treatment, for minors, in this case, especially those in protection centres. In case you don't volunteer, as you said very well, in the face of accidents, transportation means, why are you alienating it, huh? , or missing or lost people in concrete places with rural areas, hikers, which we have, therefore, permanently, the Bomber Cos also working with people who have been lost. Now not so much, but surely, now, with the good weather, from spring-summer, surely we will have, therefore, more locations of people. In the field of non-volunteers, at the office we have, the office that started work on April 1, 2014, is pulled forward – I do it at great length – a psychological support at specific times; inform and clarify any doubts that the family can hold; guide the family in making decisions; give a first level of response to legal consultations, prevention advice and safety advice; accompany families in searches; disseminate posters to all Mossos commissaries as well as other institutions or entities; an information space to the very web of the Mossos d'Esquadra; a full information with recommendations; a first telephone contact with all Mossos commissariats as well as with other institutions or entities; an information space to the cosos de Mossos d'Esquadra, a full information with recommendations; a first telephone contact with all Mossos commissariats as well as with other institutions or entities; a telephone contact with information on the subject, but not only on the subject of the subject, but on the subject of the subject, the subject of the subject, the subject of the subject, the subject of the subject, the subject of the subject, the subject of the subject of the subject, the subject of the subject of the subject of the subject of the In the camp of criminals or forces..., here I will not enter, because it forms part, as I said, of another camp, which is not what you set up, but tell him that we have the Central Unit of Disappeared Persons, that here is work with investigation and also – also – is workable. Specifically, the year 2018 – which you have given some data; they vary very little, but I would like to point them out – we have had 4,447 complaints of missing persons, of which 60_per cent were men and 40_per_cent were women; 2_per_cent were younger than twelve years; 36_per_cent were younger than between thirteen and sixteen years; 55_per_cent were adults until sixty-five years, and 7_per_cent were younger than sixty-five years. Of these 4,447, 98,75_per_cent is located; therefore, 1.25 remains. Which I don't minimize, but this 1_per_cent, for whom I'm sorry, is huge, huh? I didn't minimize it. But the reality is that a 98.75_per_cent is located; a 86 is located between a 20-kilometre radius of the disappearance site, and a 75_per_cent is located in the first four days. But as we are making an inquiry and as there will be a motion and we can certainly debate and make proposals, I thank him for the proposals he has made, because, therefore, I am sure they will help us improve the work we have. And the compromise above all mine, personally, in this camp. I do want to tell you that now what we want is to maintain the integration system with the database of missing persons and human remains of the Spanish State; it is the database on which... we know that there was someone who had problems with this database. We've done all the pieces of information to solve it and to move forward so we can introduce the changes they make to this database into ours. Continue working with the missing persons manager for each ABP, each police base area. When someone's going to file a complaint with a police station in Mossos, so I'm already out, you've got a certain information. Maintain contact with associations of missing persons. Looking for better tools to spread missing people, but we also need to get old so that we don't fall into the normalization of missing people. See if I can explain this to you. We have to report and we have to warn and we have to warn the people that there are people who disappear, but where we can't find it is the society that has normalized that there are people who have disappeared, because then we would do a little bit of ourselves. Therefore, we need to look for channels and paths to be able to inform without this being normalized. This is a timely situation, and we need to get old. We are currently studying an app to spread disappearances in a sectoral and territorial way and fight against the point I gave him before, a while ago, that of not normalizing a situation, is a punctual situation. The best of the search protocol. And, as you say, with futures, with the new promotions of agents we have from Mosso d'Esquadra – you know, I have said this by active and passive, that we now have a lack of real agents in this country – so go giving this area and this office more staff. And, therefore, also work the legislative changes of Parliament, in general, because the Spanish State, which has legislative competence in this case, can adapt and improve what some Catalans are patenting also for our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.289.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, for the reply, has the word again the deputy Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.290.0	Thank you, Vice President. I want to start with..., I hadn't done it, but I don't have a lot of work to do, and I do know, and I know, great professionals who, beyond their professional obligation, the real problem of the disappearance of people also make a personal issue, a personal issue. And, so, that makes sense to me, I know, and, so, I want to make the job... Now I have a name, Jordi Domènech, but I could say a few more. Actually, the Office of Care for Disappeared Family Members, in Fi, you have put on a medal that 2016 won the award of the Global QSD Foundation, Who Knows Where Global; it's true. I will also set my own: I also made it, in 2016. In any case, it is true that Spain does not have a legal definition of a missing person. Since February 2014, the date on which the conclusions of the special committee set up in the Senate were approved for the study of the problem of disappeared persons without apparent cause, of which I have had the honour to form a part and to be its promoter, therefore, it has taken a definition, which is the definition of the Council of Europe, which is from here it seems that it is consensus that it is to be used: "The disappeared person, said, "is the person absent from his habitual residence without known or apparent expression, the existence of which is a cause of concern or good that his new residence is unknown, and gives place to the search in the interest of his own security and on the basis of family or social interest. I talked to him, counselor, about three questions he wanted to put to him, very concrete, let's just say, huh? , which could have raised many more: one, the Office of Assistance to the Family of Disappeared Persons; secondly, prevention. We think it's important to start working..., and I'm not talking about economic resources, I'm not talking about assumptions, I'm talking about political will and profiting from the huge professionals working in these camps of people with neurodegenerate disorders, with, in fact, Alzheimer's, etc., right? And, therefore, in second place, prevention. And thirdly – and I am developing it very briefly – we believe that creation would be important, to give it precisely this vision of state – as I say – of global work, from the social point of view, therefore, to create an inter-departmental commission, a work table, formed as a minimum by representatives of the Councils of Interior, Justice, Health, Education, probably..., not, certainly also of social services, to work in a coordinated, comprehensive way, and with its collaboration, participation, advice, information of associations of relatives of people who have disappeared, that basically..., but rather, by way of example, to Catalonia, with its collaboration, participation, advice, information of associations of relatives who have been involved in this process, that is, by way, by way of example, by way of example, to Catalonia, with its collaboration, with its collaboration, with its collaboration, and with its collaboration, with the participation, with the help of the help of families, with the help of the help of people who have disappeared.... The communication media, we saw it today and yesterday, huh? I'm worried, but I'm worried a lot more about public communication media. What paper do you play on the problem we're dealing with? The public communication media, beyond the share, beyond the audience, are a public service and, as a public service, I honestly believe that they should play a role that they would like to define... I agree with you: it is not a matter of exaggeration, it is not a matter of treatment... I agree, it is a delicate issue, but it is no less than the families who first want to, when a relative disappears, it is that he knows and that, as most people know, better, because the first few hours you know that they are phonenal, right? So these are the three themes I wanted to raise. This is where the motion for an inquiry will go. I hope and wish that, for the sake of the cause, that we certainly share its importance, will be able to agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.291.0	Thank you, Mr. Bruguera. Finally, the word has the counselor again for the reply of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.292.0	Thank you, President. And as long as we share it, Congressman. In fact, of the three questions that you have commented on at the beginning, I think I have answered two, I have left a third, because..., about the rumors that we are going to make of this office, I think it is clear from my statement that the rumors are more false and do not stop being rumors, but that reality is absolutely the control. As far as the inter-departmental committee is concerned, I say: I don't know if this is the fit or we need to find another fit, but we do have to give it a feel, I don't know if it is, but a feel of much importance, to this, and more must be very transversal. In this, I've already told the prince that I'm following him... or so, every one has to do the work, and that's not where we do everything among all of us, but every one has to do what it's up to him to do. And the psychosocial support sure that he will do much better and in a more appropriate way the staff of the social welfare council than not of the interior council. You mean we don't know? No, no, You know, and we'll do it right, and we'll do it as well as we can, but I'm sure social welfare will either find the box or find the best profile to handle every situation. Because, as I say, we have to carry it in an individualized way, each case is an individualized situation. I want to say that in case I wanted to put on a medal or anything, I want to say... Plus, I think that here it is well known that I was a counselor on June 2nd of the 18th and I said that 2016 was a prize; so, two years before. Anyway, who they gave the medal to was the one they created and the one they were working on, that in general we talk about the office and all that, but then there are people, too, right? People who wear uniforms and also do a great job. I therefore objected to the two proposals. In the third, the geolocation theme, totally agreed. I believe that in many camps geolocation can be worked, not only with people with disabilities, let's say, like Alzheimer's or other questions, but that the subject of geolocation can be worked in many camps, for example at the time of coercing the freedom of some prisoners, etc. It can work, it can work geolocation, because computer science and technology today allow us to do all this work. And we don't need to invent much, we just need to put it in question. With respect to communication means, totally agree not to trivialize a situation of these. I said, "Don't donate by normalization that people disappear, because it's not normal, it's not normal that people disappear – it's not normal. But we don't have to fall into the banalization of some media, so what they do is, let's say, press the grog, and we have to fight it. It's also true... how we also fit social networks in this camp, how we do it and how we stop doing it, because sometimes they also generate fake news, fake news, and we also have to work on it. So we'll find, of course, at the length of these fifteen days or three weeks that we have to work for the young man, fit to do more and better our work, do more and better for the people who suffer... someone familiar, someone who knows that disappears from one day to another, suddenly and without any apparent movement, and who also cares about us. And in the same way, as I said, in the same way that today I was presenting the Protocol against Masclist Violence in the Oci Spaces, and we went to an Oci Space, we went to the Oci Sector, so, to make the presentation, the first one that I have done was to recognize that this Protocol was the fruit of the work that we have done among all; the Government of the Generality, yes, but there was also the Oci Sector, there were also the entities that are old for women who suffer from Masclist Violence, that, as you say, there was private security... there were all the agents, all the people, all the entities that are part of that could be a Masclist Violence, that, like you, there was private security... there were all the agents, all the people, all the entities that are part of that could be a Masclist Violence, that, as you know, there was a difference between them. Therefore, we count on all segments, we count on all entities at the time of designing this plan, that in the end and in the end it will be better for us as a society and it will make that..., we will try, we will try all folds that the patience that spoke to the beginning, that when a person disappears from one day to the next, at a given time, a son, a father or a brother, therefore, is not so great and that among all of us we help him that this patience is more light and we find the person missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.293.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the deployment of optical fiber]] [[300-00126/12]] We then proceed to substantiate item 11 of the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the deployment of optical fiber, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To expose the question, the honourable Member Marc Solsona has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.294.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Counselor, counselors, very late everyone, deputies and deputies. Well, Counselor Puigneró, the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group has asked you this question on a subject that we have all the local world's people, mayors and mayors of our country, as is the topic of connectivity. Our citizens, our cities, industries, tourism, businesses and, even more, farms in the rural world also need reliable and quality connections, especially those living and working in more remote areas of large urban clusters. Lately, a lot of news has come out, with some reports in some kind of communication, from that empty Catalonia, huh? and, therefore, the fact of being well connected and creating these synergies and networks can also bring and do a good favor to what the struggle against depopulation would be, if we also have the well connected territory. Therefore, we must "interject the country as an element of vertebration and territorial balance, and also as a determining factor of competitiveness and economic development of our municipalities. I know, counselor, that since you are a counselor, therefore, there has been enough, to go for the territory, for Catalonia, for the towns and cities, to visit joint meetings, regional councils, and also congresses, and at all events where you repeated the same message, that all the capitals of the region will be connected by optical fiber in 2020 and all the nuclei of more than fifty inhabitants will have installed the service in 2023, objective but hypernecessary ambitions in this digital environment in which we move today. For what it does to the first objective, the capitals of the region, there have been twenty-nine that are connected– I can also say that Mollerussa is also one of these twenty-nine– and there are very advanced projects in capitals such as the White Borges, Solsona, Sort, the Vendrell and Banyoles, and according to the calendar previewed in just over a year they will have to connect Gandesa, Falset, Moia, Montblanc, Pont de Suert, Puigcerdà, Valls, and also Old. Today, having a good network of optical fiber is appropriate for any territory, and it is an instrument to serve the progress of all the municipalities of Catalonia as well; the technology, therefore, understood as a territorial vertebrate factor. It is an assumption that many times goes by when we talk about social policies. I remember the first time we were able to share with the advisor a table about the cities we are from SmartLab, which you exposed before everyone that smart city policies, Smart Citizen policies, are also social policies. We sometimes understand or link social policies only with those policies that are more of a welfare character, but social policies, as the name explains it, are policies that affect society, and, as a society, make social policies through technology also better at the time of being able to exercise what we would say in the right of citizenship. This is also good that we can note it and that we are also, let's say, "matching in what would be the report of the political and social discourse of our day-to-day, with these new models of governance. Because in the end the theme of the new technologies, making social policies through them, also forms part of this concept that many times it is spoken a lot and very few people know what it is, that it is of those new models of governance. We cannot articulate new governance models if we do not have a territory, some institutions, with a technological deployment that allows us to make truly new forms of governance. This is why connectivity is so important, that in the end ‘new governance model' means in those states where administrator and managed is found in the same plane. And what is better than technology or access through connectivity between citizens, and also between institutions? Therefore, in a company like ours, which is very digital, access to some quality connections is supposed to ensure what we are doing now, this equal opportunity for all the territories and businesses in Catalonia, but also especially for our citizens. The optical fiber, therefore, also understands not only as an element of cohesion and territorial vertebrator, but also as an element of territorial balance, with the objective that no city can become, depending on the place where it is seen, a city of first or second category. Therefore, it is not possible to guarantee an economic and social development without access to quality telecommunications, and in a context in which the market does not solve these needs, it is here that public administrations..., it is fully justified and used for Community and European legislation the fact that they can also intervene. There was news in the Segre newspaper, where precisely yesterday, at Urgell, therefore, he also explained, and with the president of the parliament, the fact of the importance that fiber or access to optical fiber is to gain occupation, but at once, as he said before, to stop depopulation. And these concepts are very framed in which the objectives of Agenda 2020, marked for the European Union, are set. Because this is not a deed or an obsession of the government of the generality or of the councillor of return; here it is: either we are a day or we lose opportunities. Therefore, the fact of wanting to compete in equal opportunities also fits with what would be the Digital Agenda 2020 that marks the European Union, which is to ensure the implementation of measures so that all citizens in the year 2025 have the opportunity to connect to the Internet at 1_gigabyte per second, therefore, and to ensure that they can participate fully in the economy and digital societies. Subratllo‘digital societies, because, when we talk about our models of governance, the politics of the present, and also the most immediate of the future, will also require this access to ensure these new models of governance, let's say, more global and modern. Therefore, with this intention of complimenting this digital agenda, we know that its department is completing the fiber deployment through the project of the Xarxa Oberta de Catalunya, and last February 4th it signed a pact between the Generality and the four deputies to extend optical fiber to all the territory, to all the reasons, let us say, of the country. This is a collaboration between institutions, the Generality and the local world of Catalonia, every one of its scope, but with a clear sense of country. We also know this will that it is possible to gain access to high speed, for example, at the level of promotion and economic factor, at 195 Lleida polygons in 2023, which means increasing this range of polygons from 21 to 216, let's say, with this high speed, for four years. Therefore, it is a way we have to fold, Government of the Generality, local administrations, parliaments, to be able to take advantage of all this transformative power of technology in order to be able to become a captivating and cohesive country. From this willingness to deploy this high-speed optical fiber technology... it's not stagnant. This was incorporated into a very general concept that we have from the Government of the Generality, and you especially explained to me the territory, the idea that we want to turn Catalonia into a smart nation. What do you mean, that? It means being a nation, let's say, of international reference, that takes advantage of the use of technology and digital information to innovate in public services, in our governance models, boost economic growth and promote a more intelligent society – with the technological concept, sustainable – and also inclusive. And this is part of the project that commented on the principle of my intervention, of this SmartCAT strategy project, of the Generality, which sets out the Catalonia SmartLab, which is this community of adhering municipalities, as is the case of Mollerussa, willing to offer its public spaces because small and medium-sized enterprises have, can prove their technological solutions. I mean, it's pilot testing in a real environment, and that's very important. And here– that I'm running out of time– highlight that if we bring it to the first land of Lleida's land..., many times it also assimilates what would be technology with great cities and, let's say, great metropolis, okay? , and here I like to always highlight that hashtag # Lleidaexistentix ; and, for example, a city like ours..., of the eight pilots we have, which we have made or which are in use, seven are through the enterprises of the territories of the lands of Lleida. Therefore, technology, innovation, knowledge, the gain of being able to intercede, innovate, create, can be done across the territories. And it's thanks to this network of SmartLab municipalities that we can really test and actually see our competitiveness point. All this with the will that in the end we can govern not only intelligent cities, but what is meant to be the traffic, let's say, natural between the smart city and the smart citizen, which in the end, to whom this is addressed is to the citizens, to the people. And if we understand this way, I think it is important that the social policy applied to the new technologies, going through optical fiber, explaining the concept of the European Agenda network, and also at the most micro level, at the most level of the country, to be able to articulate through these projects that I have mentioned..., I think we have enough success guaranteed. Therefore, counselor, this inquiry is basically to ask you – and extend it's a little bit – about which actions the Government of the Generality is due at the end of the day on the issue of quality connection to our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.295.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. To answer the question has now the word the counselor Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.296.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, councilwoman, congressmen and congressmen..., look, we're in the middle of a digital revolution, I'm not saying, am I? If we take one of the latest reports from the World Economic Forum recently, it's that humanity faces its own years at three great heights, huh? One is the migrant repte, which seems to me that we are all very conscious of the drama, say, that we see the different countries at these times that have to be people who have to flee from their places of origin; the second great repte is the climate change, we have to preserve our planet, and the third is the digital revolution, and the impact that digital technologies tend to have on society, on work, on mobility, on industry, and also on the way we govern ourselves; and, therefore, how it will transform democracy into this sense. In this sense, since the Government of Catalonia we have been dealing with this matter for a long time, and in concrete terms some years ago previous governments decided to make a very important and substantive instrument available to the country, because the first principle of the digital society is that of access. Without access to the Internet, without access to the network, without access to connectivity, it will be impossible to develop this 21st-century society, this digital society, and this instrument is called the Xarxa Oberta de Catalunya. Someone may ask and say, "Listen, and this, why haven't we left it in the hands of the market? Why didn't we let the operators do it? Why is it involved, say, then, the government? So because the market isn't perfect, and because if there's no public action, so, surely in this country, to a lot of people in the country, so, there wouldn't be any citizens in equal opportunities with what we said is one of the main principles, which is access in this case to connectivity. And that's why the Government of Catalonia, through this instrument, of this country structure that is the Open Territory of Catalonia, has put a tool in place to advance and to give equal opportunities to all companies, to all municipalities, to all citizens, to see where they live. But, well, we've put in other instruments to move forward with this digital society. One of them, for example, is the National Pact for the Digital Society, which he approved..., and signed, in this case, the Government of Catalonia, the four deputies, the different municipal associations, the Consortium AOC, Localret. This happened three years ago, and this is a pact that went further than the matches. It tries to be an absolutely cross-cutting pact, a pact that puts the size of the situation at the service of all the institutions, governments that govern them, with a single proposal, that we must move forward, and in this camp not only move forward but accelerate this process of digital transformation that the country is going to experience. And we agreed five basic principles in this great country agreement, as I said, with all the institutions. One of them is obviously that of access, which I have already commented on; but there is also the move towards more intelligent cities and territories, the concept of'smart cities', as the honourable Member has said. So is cybersecurity. Often we don't talk about it, but if every time we get more connected, we also need to make sure that this environment is safe, because, if not, obviously our welfare state will suffer. We also need to move towards a more digital administration. Also to promote the concept of the digital economy, the industrial internet, how it favors the fabric of our country's production. Therefore, these principles, and moving forward in these principles, was a great country agreement, which I think I wanted to remember as one of the instruments that this Government is deploying. And precisely in the framework of this country instrument, and I hope that governments that governments Catalonia or institutions that result from the municipal elections that will be produced in a few days. We are all aware that in the field of access, and concretely it makes a couple of months, the Government, and President Torra, solemnly, to the Palau de la Generalitat, signed with the four deputies the National Commitment for the deployment of fiber, because it is precisely in access that we can guarantee this equal opportunity of the digital society, and because we understand that this is a proposal that cannot be done by the Government of Catalonia alone. The Government of Catalonia has committed itself to bringing optical fibre, in the mark of this year and of its own, to all the capitals of the region. And this can be done by the Government of Catalonia alone, for two reasons: first, because it will allocate resources to it, but, second, because the capitals of the region arrive in the generality that make it possible to deploy this fiber. But it's also true that to get to the rest of the municipalities in a region, or to other parts of the country, the majority of reelers are not from the Generality. They are either members of the parliaments or they are members of the same municipalities, and we must therefore do this collaboratively. And, therefore, the National Fibre Commitment, approved now a couple of months ago, precisely addressed this collaborative process to try to accelerate this process of deploying this basic country infrastructure, through the Xarxa Opena tool, and to this we are dedicated. Let me just give them some ciphers. What have we done, for example, at the length of these new months? Without any presupposition, because I want to remind you that this is a new consultancy, which has unfortunately not yet been able to adopt a proper presupposition, that if this can be done..., and I hope that the day that a presupposition arrives, or as the very least decrees arrive to this Parliament that drives this initiative, then it will count on the support of all parliamentary groups. What have we done, for example, at the length of these new months? So we've deployed more than a hundred and fifty kilometers of optical fiber across the country. What have we done longer than these new months? Arrive at two very important agreements signed with two members, already: with the Barcelona Parliament, with which a project is being deployed at these times to deploy 803_kilometres in the next three years, works have already begun, to connect a total of 230 municipalities in the area of the demarcation of the Barcelona districts, and to connect a total of 210 polygons, and this is on the way, and this is possible thanks to this collaboration between both administrations. Also as the deputy said very well – and he is mayor, in this case, of the demarcation of the lands of Lleida – with the Diputation of Lleida, eh? A great deal that will allow us, and is allowing us, because there have not yet begun the works here, but there is a commitment to allocate resources, to deploy 1,455 kilometers over the next three years. In concrete terms, to reach 221 municipalities and 195 industrial polygons. Therefore, from the Government of Catalonia we are doing the work, and we are doing it together, as we must, in this case, because this is a responsibility of all. It is true that we now need to ratify the agreements with the delegations of Girona and Lleida, and, forgive me, of Tarragona, and this we are also devoting these weeks, because we would also like to close, in the framework of these two delegations, agreements similar to what we have closed with the Barcelona and Lleida Chambers. In short, we are talking about putting in the service of the enterprises, the citizens, the municipalities some of them, essential infrastructures in the 21st century in order to develop the territory. As the honourable Member quite rightly said, they also help the non-depopulation pocket, and so... In fact, I always explain that these infrastructures, surely, unlike many others that have been deployed – the reels and the trains, are the first–, in the area of depopulation, do a much more determined function; because the reels and the trains help you to leave the municipality to work in another municipality, but in turn these are the first ones that allow you to stay in your municipality to develop your activity in your municipality. So, they're a phone tool in this proposal, because we... this government doesn't want a country with a very big head and a very small thing, and I guess they already understand what I mean, huh? I don't want a country with a metropolitan area, so I'm taking everything, and I'm not getting anywhere else. On the contrary, we want to precisely vertebrate the territory; precisely what we want is to help these citizens and citizens, therefore, who live in comarques, to be able to develop their activity, and that those municipalities of these comarques have equal opportunities and are not in second place in our country. In short, the optical fiber network that we are deploying is also the basis for the digital economy of the 21st century. We're talking about 5G being decisive, and we're seeing a big geopolitical struggle between the United States and China at these times for controlling this new economy that will generate the 5G of all connected. Well, the 5G, without the optical fiber, will be, I won't say impossible, but much harder to deploy. And, therefore, in this sense we have a double responsibility, which is not only to give opportunity but to place our country at the forefront of 5G policy, 5G deployment, which will mean 5G, the Internet of Things, this 21st century, and the equal opportunities that this will bring to our businesses and our citizens. An asphalt kilometre connects us to the city side; a fiber kilometre connects us to the world. Thank you very much, and very late. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.297.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the policy of recognition and decorations]] [[300-00129/12]] We will continue to substantiate the fifteenth item of the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the policy of recognition and decorations, presented by the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose the inquiry has the word MP Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.298.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. I would like to make a first warning before I begin, especially to the Vice-President who is in office as President here today in this House: all the statements that I will make right now, all the insults, all the expressions of contempt, totality and xenophobia that I will pronounce in this Faristol today are not the author of my own, nor do they direct or address, nor much less, to the Councillor, nor much less to the rest of the Members present here, but they are an absolutely literal reading of opinions, articles, tweets and affirmations of awards for the Government of the Generality. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.299.0	Congresswoman, let me give you a warning...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.300.0	I haven't started yet...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.301.0	Leave'm..., no, I just want to give him a warning – and I'll put up with it for a while. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The fact that you don't... - Yeah, I've put up with the time, huh? –, the fact that you, say, do or transmit expressions that are inconvenient to the Decor or that are not in parliamentary courtesy..., the fact of authorship does not exempt you from complying with these standards. I mean, take that into account, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.302.0	Miri, I...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.303.0	I'm just warning you. If you want to proceed... I seem to have explained myself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.304.0	Mr. Costa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.305.0	The fact that you say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.306.0	I suppose I have also explained to myself, Mr Costa: Article 14, 17 of the Rules of Procedure; Article 21, of the parliamentary inviolability of the Members present here, and above all, Article 90, that it is the call to observe the Rules that I remind you to do, and that, in relation to Article 39.1, what you require is to regulate the debates of parliamentary sessions with impartiality. You can't suppress my right of expression and my parliamentary activity to collect sentences, opinions and articles issued or decorated for this Government of the Generality or for persons who are part of this chamber, or who are the same president of the Generality. And what that means is that these indecorable, disrespectful, even xenophobic, expressions are attributable to the authors and not to me, for so much that I have the right to express them from this window. Can I start?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.307.0	Madam Member, I, as President at this time of the sitting, have the duty to observe the Rules, and Article 233 literally tells you that Members have the obligation to comply with the rules of order established for this Rules, they must avoid causing disturbance or disorder, making accusations or recriminations between them, making inappropriate statements to the decision, interrupting speakers, etc., and that the Member who violates those rules must be called to order for the President. I don't have the power to decide whether or not I call you in order, but I have the statutory obligation to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.308.0	It's got to be motivated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.309.0	Effectively.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.310.0	You have to motivate and say the expression you said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.311.0	Mr. Mirror, you don't have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.312.0	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.313.0	You don't have the word, Mr. Mirror, you don't have the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You don't have the word! [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The cry to order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.314.0	If I call you to order...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.315.0	The cry to order!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.316.0	If you can call me to order seven times; I will call you to order every time you skip the Rules in such a blatant way, in front of all citizens...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.317.0	Mr. Mirror, the cry to order, you don't have the word. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.318.0	So, Mr. Costa, if you'll allow me to exercise my parliamentary rights and start talking...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.319.0	Proceed. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.320.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.321.0	...I would like to remind you that I am pleased with what you have provided for in the article...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.322.0	I'll do it, I'll do it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.323.0	... 233 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.324.0	...and I hope that you too with your obligation of 39.1, as I have said, and with rule 90, of compliance with the Rules. That said, Counselor Vilallonga, good late, welcome. The truth is that..., it gives me the impression that you have been asked to answer and premier almost parliamentaryly with regard to this political inquiry – I think I have been quite clear – of recognitions and decorations, and that the competition is not yours, isn't it? , because the competence is of the Presidency, to decide who these awards are awarded to, and gives the impression that the Presidency has not been very keen to give explanations. It has also happened at this morning's plenary session, when the possibility has even been blocked for Mr Torra to appear to explain what criteria they have followed to appoint and award certain people, such as Mrs De Gispert or Messi herself, for example, but it seems that, well, it has not generated enthusiasm; they have entrusted it to you. I will try, in spite of everything, then, to be as equal as possible, at least with you, but the subject does not make it very easy for me, and yet I will try. Look, there's been a lot of talk about what he's brought in, what he's left behind and what's caused us the process, right? to the Catalans, that evil so-called process, in the end, isn't it? For a while I believe that it allowed in a first phase, as Santi Vila himself said, ex-adviser, therefore, to cover all the cuts made by the first government of the best of Mas, which, unable to manage a difficult situation, of economic crisis, of difficulty to maintain the quality of public services, because it parapet under that process of independence to cover its inefficient management, right? I think that, in a second phase, even that process, well, it even served as a distraction, didn't it? , so that the serious problems of corruption that existed at the time in his former party, Convergence, now already extinguishes– Palau case, ITV case, Innova case, Pujol case – because they were not the political focus of attention in Catalonia but rather another topic, let's say, more emotional, right? That was that independence. And I think that in a third phase this process has served a little to blame the others for their own mistakes in a complicated management, with a public health that is..., well, it is practically leader, it is the second on waiting lists, in Spain ; an education that is precarious, with the largest number of barracks in all of Spain that exist, and non-existent family policies, to the point that you have left to the families of new creation, those people who have decided to increase their family, because, without any help, something that does not happen in any other autonomous community. But it's true that apart from those phases, the process has also left us something else, hasn't it? , which is subsidiary but important, and it is: it has allowed us to see what are the alliances of political independence, what are, let's say, their friends and allies, isn't it? And there, then, we met Maduro, Otegi, Salvini, the ultra flamencos, Pamela Anderson, also, the folk point. And it has allowed us to see a pose, a pose that is quite unpleasant, because it is racism, intolerance, xenophobia, which seems to have been not only at specific times and exceptional, but seems to be becoming almost a tonic, a conviction. I'd like to think no, because I'm sure that many people who vote for pro-independence parties are neither xenophobic nor racist nor totalitarian or anything like that, but of course the pose is there, right? There has even been talk of genetic differences, of DNA; public squares have been cleaned up and disinfected by visits by constitutionalist parties, and opinions have been issued, absolutely entrepreneurial articles have been written. The process has ultimately damaged democracy, social coexistence, discredited institutions, damaged the economy. But there is something that is almost irrecoverable if we don't stop it, and it's normalizing the aberrant. You cannot normalize the aberrant, because the process at the end has subverted the sense of ethics and anesthetized the common sense, starting with the articles of President Torra, in which he called part of the population « human beasts, article of El Món, 2012, « La lengua i les bèsties : « Now you look at your country and you see again how the beasts speak, but they are of another kind, they are carnations, they are vipers, they are hyenas, they are beasts with human form, and so they rinse the hatred that disgusts them any kind of expression of catalanity with a small stir in their DNA chain. Arriving at that, then, the process also reaches the Medal of Gold of the Generalitat, also reaches the Cross of Sant Jordi. And this government has achieved almost the impossible, and it is that the award-winners when they receive the call feel an inner shudder, right? , because in reality it seems to be more a ballast, almost, than a benefit, than a positive public recognition, and that even, therefore, private awards, such as the Català de l'Any de El Periódico de Catalunya, are almost received with more joy than this one. I think getting the prizes devalued is a difficult task. If there is one part of governance that can be more or less affable is to award prizes, recognize merits. And you have managed to devalue that, but we are on time, we are still on time, because that contamination of the process also of decorations and awards has occurred especially in recent years, haven't you? , since 2011, where casually, then, many of the winners were people who were, in the end, convinced processists or even I would say that people very close – very close – to independent political parties, right? Since 2011, that's what I'm telling you, you've rewarded the unconditional faithful of the process, including those who insult, like Mrs. De Gispert, including those who are charged with justice, like Mrs. Forcadell. They have opened a new category, which is that of criminally convicted, one for tax fraud, which, however good a player is, is condemned for tax fraud, Mr Messi, and another for corruption, Lula da Silva. And, frankly, I wanted to ask you: first of all, what criteria have been followed to reward Mrs De Gispert, who had already been rejected by this Parliament, to receive this award. What treasured virtues, and what, for example, can be seen in the tweets he has written? Because for a few days we have been talking about that tweet where he puts a picture of the pig sector, where we talk about the increase in sales of pig exports and where he also refers to « I dedicate it to all of you, those who wish to return dignity to our institutions, referring to and making a parallel between these exported pigs and Mr Girauta to Toledo, Mrs. Arrimadas to Madrid, Millo to Andalusia, Dolors Montserrat to the EU. But it's not just that, it's that, in addition to being reprobated, this lady, on 9 April, told Mr Zaragoza: "Hey, why don't you shut up; you're a pathetic and miserable. One cannot reward a person who expresses himself in this way with regard to persons representing Catalan citizens, because Mr Zaragoza is also an elected office. On April 15 he said of Casado: "Married is not foolish, it is resounding. On October 2, 2018, Marlaska said: "Marlaska you are a fool or a fa. He says we're not tensioning Catalonia, but he just decorated Majordom Millo for his performance on October 1. From Mrs. Arrimadas: "The Inés Arrimadas MP is an inept and ignorant, not in terms of economy, of investments; she doesn't know anything at all. Let's see, we have had a week where in the end that prize will not be able to be given to Mrs De Gispert – yes, instead, to Mr Messi – and it is not given because she has resigned, not because you from the government have decided to reverse that award of that prize. Moreover, there have been statements throughout the week by four councillors, casually from Esquerra, I don't know if it is because, in the end, they have the highest moral standards or because we are close to the municipal elections, saying that they felt a little shame and that obviously that could not be done, and they even asked him to give up the award. From now on, what steps will you take so that this does not happen again, that the contempt and that the lost honour, not only of the Cross of Sant Jordi, but also of the Medal of the Generalitat d'Or or even of the International Prize of Catalonia, will again be present and be a reference for the rest of Catalan society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.325.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Next, to answer the question, has the word Culture Counsellor, Mariângela Vilallonga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.326.0	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, who serves as President. Well found deputies and deputies, counselor. You're right, the honourable Member, that's my first question. I hope it's not the last one. Long live the councilwoman! Well, as you've talked about the pig sector, I'll tell you that in this country it's killing every year 21 million pigs; there's so many more than Catalans, images, people. To honor the people who have preceded us, to thank the work well done, to mourn the people who have worked for Catalonia to go forward, to thank the people who have helped the most disadvantaged sectors of society, all this honors us as a people. This is what the Government of the Government of Catalonia does, it is what must make a government that governs, like this one. And it does all this through its policy of recognition and decoration, as it does to countries that feel proud of their children, of their people. Agrair is a good that returns, as in the Three Graces of the Hand in Greek mythology, the symbolism of which is explained to us by the Cordovese philosopher Seneca. Culture, of course, as surely as so many other professional or even intimate aspects of our existences, requires an answer. This answer is recognition. A society with cultural density is also a society that, from plurality, knows how to recognize those contributions that promote intelligence, civic values, culture of mind and hope. It is a society that, in short, recognizes those contributions that improve our lives and affirm a sense of community, where people and institutions care about the quality of what others do. Catalonia is a country with a cultural, artistic and civic density, and transforming the need into virtue, during many episodes of its history, this country has reaffirmed itself in the culture of the cultural fabric, a fabric that from many different angles has allowed models of identification, of universal dialogue, of free feeling of belonging to a society, and also, many times, of subsistence as a people. That's why, as the Culture Advisor, I'm going to defend the civic and excellence and social cohesion values of culture. And that is why I firmly believe that the Generality's policy of recognition and decoration is an act of justice, of recognition, of active recognition on the part of a society and of institutions that do not want to honour themselves only to be tuned, but because they want to be imbued with those artistic, cultural and civic values that so many citizens and citizens of this country are propagating. You know, Congresswoman, how many awards, how many recognitions does the Government of the Generality institute? If you don't know, or if you don't know, I'm telling you: more than one hundred and fifty awards, that is, acts of institutional, personal and social recognition. From very diverse camps: associationism, popular culture, cinema, literature, thought, art... And from a wide range of institutional areas: culture; agriculture, fish and fisheries; territories and sustainability; social work and matters; transparency and institutional and international relations; education; interior... The Generality responds to the obligations it has throughout the institution: to recognize creativity, progress and all those projects that enhance civic and better, cross-cutting and plural values. All these recognitions are our main activity as a society. Today, here, we cannot allow that, through a deforming tremendism, it is spreading the idea that behind the prizes and decorations of the Government of the Generality there is not the pulcrity of Community criteria, civics, plurals and artistic quality that, in capitals, there is. To expose it, I'll only give you a few awards that you mentioned. The first, the Golden Medal of the Generality of Catalonia, which with its willingness to subrate exceptional qualities is an honorary title, which has recognized a range of persons of diverse backgrounds and sensitivities such as, for example, Joan Miró, Josep Pla, Major Zaragoza, Montserrat Caballe, Gregorio López Raimundo, Jordi Sole Tura, Oriol Bohigas, Carme Forcadell - which you have mentioned - or Neus Català, one of the last voices of Nazi hell. I will also mention, of course, the Sant Jordi Creeds, instituted in 1981 with the intention of distinguishing the persons and entities who for their merits have provided outstanding services to Catalonia. It's a prize that prides us, it's a prize that runs in the social humus, that recognizes the pocket of the most diverse sectors: social workers, pedagogics, associationism, politicians, entrepreneurs... It's a prize that seeks parity between women and men. It's an open prize, which any citizen or group of citizens or entity can offer. It is a plural prize, which, as evidenced in each edition, recognizes very diverse sensitivities. I will not defuse the criticism that some groups have been able to promote in the concession of the creus of Sant Jordi d'enguany, which precisely in this edition recognize three presidents of the Parliament of Catalonia. In this sense I would like to make two observations. The first is that as a government and as a society we are close to honouring these people and these figures and this institution, and even so I believe that it should be fixed that all the presidents of the Parliament, when they finish their term, hold the Cree of Sant Jordi, of officers, exactly as, for example, they do to France with the prize of the Legion of Honor. The second observation is that we applaud the trajectory and dignity of President Núria de Gispert, the first woman president of the Parliament of Catalonia, who presented the resignation to the Creu de Sant Jordi. And I also want to mention another prize as important as the Catalonia International Prize, which was born with the threefold aim of recognizing and stimulating creators, of underlining examples of the highest quality and demand in all aspects and of placing Catalonia at the scene of the great international guardians. This prize is awarded for a composite juror with personalities from the world of science, economy, arts and culture, and it counts among the prize winners with very high figures – which I will not say now for lack of time. I also gave a presentation of important recognitions as well as other awards given by the Generalitat de Catalunya. I would like to finish this intervention by pointing out that we are not impervious to criticism. And I would like to point out with a few words that Karl Popper wrote, one of the most important philosophers of the contemporary era, guarded the year 1989 in the first edition, precisely, of the Prix Internacional Catalunya. As you know, Popper wrote a cabal work that is titled, very expressively, The Open Society and its Enemies. In this work, this Austrian thinker writes – I quote –: "Open societies are not generally stable, precisely because they are exposed to critical discussion. The dictatorships, in change, are more stable – I finish the subpoena. We, who are and want to be an open society, know that we are perfectable, and that no one doubts that we will apply all the corrective measures that come from this part of objective and better diagnostics, but in no case will we accept that this policy of recognition and awards of the Government of the Generality, a policy that substantiates our other cultural and civic dynamism with the country, can be neutralized by a deforming relationship that neither focuses on real space nor sets a real horizon of the future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.327.0	Thank you, Counselor. It has the word, for the reply, the deputy Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.328.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I have to clarify. "Well done work, what do you mean by well done work? "Activities that foster ethics and hope? « Universal dialogue as much as possible to be decorated for the Generality, when it is out, via tweet, to everyone who disagrees with your political ideas, what is it that Mrs De Gispert does? « Creativity? What's the creativity of Mrs. De Gispert? The art of insult? Is this his creativity? Look, to me, honestly, it costs me a lot to do this intervention and to see that there is not a minimum of self-criticism. And I say that because even all members of his own government have been critical and have said that it is obvious that a person like that cannot get a guard like the Cree of Sant Jordi. You're talking about deformed reality, and can you tell me where the distortion of these tweets is that I've read to you here again? Where is this deformation, if even the same author doesn't deny it and says that she just might not have put it in a tweet? I mean, you think so, yeah, but putting it on a tweet, no. Look, you're talking about merit, and I remind you that at the awards, when they value merit, merit can't be either party, intolerant, or outcast, it can't be that way. It seems that this basic rule of: "Miri, all the presidents of this chamber, therefore, will be guarded..., seems to be in recognition of their loyalty to the process. I don't see another one..., no deserve of all that you have mentioned here. Look, if you don't want to be guided by the common sense, by the measure, you will have to be mediating a motion of this Parliament, that the citizenship that is represented in this chamber puts the limits. It's a shame that I have to be a legislative chamber that sets the limits of ethics, morality... [[Funnel veils]] Yes, yes, yes, ethics, morality and respect. You were talking about universality. Listen, if there's a character, a person who has behaved with very little universality is Mrs. De Gispert. It is true, there are many people, different sensitivities, different backgrounds, who have been rewarded for the Generality; and that, I, Mrs Vilallonga, do not deny. But these awards had prestige, and they had prestige precisely because they were based on that: in respect, in universality, in social generosity. They do not reward or reward people who were taxless and do not comply with their obligations or people who refuse, insult, persecute and identify the people they thought were different from them. Of course, it's been rejected by people of prestige, but there have also been some who have made it, haven't they? , like Rosa Maria Sardà, or also Mrs Torres, who said: "I can't find her, but I want to return her, eh? , that I remain conscious of my will. Clearly, it was taken over by Mr. Viader, the Hospital de Sant Pau; clearly, it was taken over by Mrs. Montserrat Martí, her mother, too, Eduardo Mendoza... But do you believe that these people have had the characteristics and public behavior that Mrs. De Gispert had, or even the very same Messiah? , which, I insist, despite being a good football player, is a conviction for tax evasion. Look, the awards, when they're granted and they're in the hands of ideological sympathies, they lose their sense, they lose their prestige. And that's exactly what happened. Setting a minimum rule will help keep this from happening again, help have some premiums that can also be an example for our society. They say that you've talked about art, and it's true that art is much admired in society, isn't it? , to have your message sent. But I also say one thing: the behaviors of public representatives, of those people who, moreover, have been publicly recognized by the institutions..., must also have exemplary behavior, because it is essential for coexistence to transmit values of respect, solidarity. And society is also admiring itself in people who are prized. Guards are recognitions, and you can never recognize insult, intolerance, xenophobia, and supremacy, which is what you have done with these prizes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.329.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have the word, finally, the counsel for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.330.0	Thank you. Well, I don't think he's listened to me very well, but... these awards have prestige, I believe, and I believe the whole government, and a very large part of the people of Catalonia. Now I could turn this reply intervention into an intervention that you pulled salt at the wounds, could put a more than once more into replenishing the huge contradictions of the People's Party. Because you, at the same time that you present very unjustly the recognitions and prizes of the Generality as a perverse plot of interests..., you, I say, do not say either such or beast before a gallery of prizes of dubious civil quality that is awarded to the Spanish State. He could, of course, subrate his silences before the police decorations that some commissioner specialises in remorseing the state's keyposts, or that they also have police involved in cases of torture. I could remind you that some Interior minister has decorated orchards with a guard representing the highest police decoration. It could, it is clear, inevitably, highlight its self-silence before the decision of the Council of Ministers that awarded office all the previous execution of the Spanish Government with the distinctions of the Order of Isabel the Catholic and the Order of Charles III. And I could also point out his silence before the fact that 539 police officers who acted in Catalonia on 1 October 2017 are awarded – I quote – for having acted with honor and loyalty in the defence of the territorial unit of Spain – and I finish the summons. [[Greetings.]] Or his silence before the fact that a minister charged up to twelve thousand police medals, the purchase of which was up to 272,000 euros, and etcetera; could extend me much more. But I am more grateful today for proposing to cross this circle of fire and to dare us to do politics, that is, constructive politics, positive politics, dialog politics. Because, as I said to the principle, beyond an electoral environment, and even beyond our particular institutional position, we have, all folded, the responsibility to build up the civic, social and democratic structures of the present and the future. And this responsibility goes on to recognize other people's mistakes and also their props. And this responsibility goes into raising the use of the word at a time when the words are forbidden and under vigilance. Becoming professionals of the apocalypse and of the complaint lacking in fonament is easy, and I will not say that it is profitable in certain media and social sectors, but this practice will have costly recipes for all folds. I do not want to regulate the misuse of language as if this misuse of language was already a natural condition of our political environment. Therefore, apart from telling them that I will consider their criticisms, I also invite them to self-criticism and the suppression of this political dynamic, in which, paraphrasing the French thinker Jean-Paul Sartre, I quote: "Hell are the others. I'm done with the subpoena. Always just the others, but never ourselves. I invite them to do politics, I invite them to raise the word; a word in which it is just and true. Convinced of our democratic pulcrity, we will continue to make the recognizance of all those energies that improve society. This seems to me the only way to fix growth goals in real and democratic space. This seems to me the only way to respond to the responsibility of our political function. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-08-3001.331.0	Thank you, Counselor. Once we're done with the points scheduled for today's session, we'll suspend until tomorrow morning.
