ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Question to the Government about his visit to find a democratic solution to repression and political immobility]] [[300-00116/12]] The next item is the question to the Government about his visit to find a democratic solution to repression and political immobility, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The honourable Member, Gerard Gómez del Moral, explains the question; when he sees it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Members, Members, Councillor; Vice-President, we ask you at a time when we are living, like the country, like society, like the political subject, so we are living with extraordinary concern. And I explain this: although we have repeated it and we will repeat it, and we will explain it, and we will never stop claiming a solution to which is a democratic anomaly, in the last few months, I would say this year and a half, since October 17, we are experiencing a situation of generalised repression in our country. We have seen how magazines have been secreted, how they have not been sent publications that have been sent years and days ago, so that they are sent to homes, to the homes of the citizens of Catalonia; we have seen how art-art exhibitions have been banned, something as subversive as art, as culture; we have seen how the right to freedom has been pursued; we have seen, after all, a judge to an actor, Willy Toledo, right? It seems to me that it was shitting in god, or something similar to that, and that he had to go to court. We have seen how puppetry has been pursued; we have seen how it has been pursued, judged, dictated prison sentences to singers, rappers, to different representations of the cultural and artistic world of our country; we have seen how it has been held free; we have seen how the right to protest has been violated; we have seen how the right to assembly has been violated; we have seen how the right to association has been violated, and we are up to this point and still see it in the highest judicial instance, on which, day yes, day also, ask: "And are you a member of the world? Are you a member of the ANC? With an inquisitorial attitude, against the right of association, associations that are perfectly legal, that are perfectly recognizable and that all citizens have the right to point out themselves; therefore, we have also seen how he is persecuted. And we have seen– and, moreover, yesterday in celebrating one year– the repression, in this case, of Adri and Tamara; two activists, therefore, one who is exiled, also, to Brussels, or Tamara, who is relegated to his village, to Viladecans, a year ago. And all this is an anatomy of the moment of political exception, of the state of exception, in the end, encobert, which has applied against the civil rights in Catalonia in particular, but which affects, of course, the conjunction of the Spanish State. And, of course, this lack of freedom we see, too, in this democracy trial, that we have been living for a few months, in the Supreme Court. And it is that an exhibition more of repression and an exhibition more of the lack of freedom, and of this trial to democracy is, therefore, that Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez carry 541 days undertaken; that Oriol Junqueras and Quim Forn carry 524 days undertaken; that Raül Romeva, Josep Rull, Dolors Bassa and Jordi Turull carry 416 days undertaken, or that President Carme Forcadell carries more than one year, 384 days undertaken, now to Alcalá-Meco. All this lack of freedom, all this anomaly, set to civil and political rights, I think they lead to a situation, which is now said: "It is that you have awakened or have not awakened fascism. Well, maybe we need to ask ourselves what causes the increase in ultra-threat, what causes the increase in fascism, what causes this burst of options that are clearly Francoist, in fact, to the vile, to the cities of our country. And it's true that I can stop it, that it can be a human wall, that it can be a wall against fascism, against racism, against xenophobia, against these outcrowded options, and that what they want is to discriminate, and what they want is just to separate a part of society. And it's true, I want to stop it, but I need to be aware of what caused this. And I'm very afraid that the increase in counter options to the democratic deepening, to democratic values, to civil rights, to speech rights, doesn't go for a certain option – in this case, independentist, right? – in the Parliament of Catalonia, or that it is a democratically voted option in a parliament such as this, but probably goes through a process of weakening democracy in the Spanish State. When it is normal for a candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat to take part in a parliamentary debate, he is waiting for this type of option. When, today, an electoral campaign begins, in this case in the Spanish Courts, and starts with eager candidates, with candidates that will be..., the campaign will begin today, at twelve o'clock in the night, from his cell, locked, closed seeing it, perhaps, therefore, listening to him from the radio, but locked from the bars of his room, is weakening the democratic system; democracy is weakening itself. And, ultimately, the weakening of democracy is, in effect, the increase of the ultra-right and the increase of the options that do not have any kind of respect for democracy, but, like that democracy has been..., and it has weakened so much, violating so many rights in later years, so that's what it causes. And this goes for a standard _framework, in the case of Catalonia, which is not accepted by Catalans. Probably, we are from the few territories – I would say almost not only Europeans, but also world-wide – that their standards could not be referendums. We have a Statute of Catalonia that is not the one that voted for the people of Catalonia, nor the one that voted for the Parliament of Catalonia, nor the one that approved the Spanish Congress; no of these three options. We have another statue, and we haven't decided it by the Catalans. And this is a phonenal democratic anomaly. And it's a right-compared anomaly; in other countries, that doesn't happen. And if we look at the Constitution, then the people under sixty years of age did not vote for the Constitution, did not vote for it. But this..., and sometimes it is said: "Well, there are many constitutions that have not been voted, and that is true, but they maintain respect on the part of their citizens. And now, here, the Constitution is being used as a weapon against political opponents. And when the Constitution is a campaign argument, it probably ceases to be the constitution of everyone. When the constitution is linked to a political option, it probably ceases to be a constitution of all. When the constitution is used to hold, to make a democratic regression in a certain territory, so, effectively, what passes. What does the CEO indicate? That, today, only 17.4_percent of Catalans would vote, would accept the Spanish Constitution. Therefore, a statute that is not the one we voted for by the Catalans, and a Spanish constitution that the Catalans do not want – do not want it – do not accept as their own. So, actually, there's a big democratic problem. And, moreover, by creating the data of the CEO, those who say yes, who are in favor of this constitution, curiously, are those who are on the extreme ideological right. The ones who stand on the extreme right are the ones who defend the constitution. Those who, on the question of "do you think the franchise did good things? They say that they are, proportionally, the ones who most say that the Spanish Constitution, today, would re-vote it. Why? So why has the whole meaning, probably, that been given to him in his day actually been distorted? And what's the answer, what's the answer to that? So more democracy. And, in this sense, we are disappointed, with the response of the Spanish Government and the paper of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, because, having before a historical cruelty, having before the opportunity to make a bet for progress, social progress, political progress, therefore, has sorted out what, from time to time, is called the 78's rule. They can do politics, therefore, to pull forward, in short, the rescue of refugees to the Mediterranean Sea, their response has been to lock the Open Arms in the port of Barcelona. They can take steps towards a state and Republican values, what did they do? So bring..., and fight against the Parliament of Catalonia to defend the monarchy. Can they act before the repression and complete their electoral promises to repeal the law bite, what have they done? Keep her. Can you address the dialog, what have you done? To rise from the table when there was a proposal to hold a rapporteur, a mediator, or, simply, a neutral person, therefore, who gave faith in what was being said between governments. They may only be disappointed by the cowardice of the PSOE and the Spanish Government. And, therefore, the answer we have to say to them is that the way to solve problems is more democracy – it's more democracy. And, therefore, before this historical cruelty, we must be able to deepen into democracy. And that's why, we ask, Vice President, what is the government's will before this repression, and to find a political way out of this situation we find ourselves and the majority demands of Catalonia's citizens? It may be recalled that, in a sustained way during the last five years, around 80 percent of Catalans and Catalans say that the political solution passes to make a reference, which they agree. The last CEO, last week's CEO, says that 78.7 are between enough and much agree to vote in reference to decide the future policy. And that's been stable for five years. Yesterday we celebrated eight years of 10-A, the independence consultation that we held in the city of Barcelona – eight years. It's been four years and a half since 9 November. It's a year and a half from October 1st. The citizens' requests to Catalonia will be there, and they will only be able to address from the dialogue, but above all, returning the question to politics, which is where we can find solutions to the requests of Catalans and Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.4.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen... Mr Gómez del Moral, I agree with you that there has been a process, in the past decades, of appropriation of a constitution that, in theory, should be used to provide, therefore, more levels of freedom and fundamental rights, that should be used to generate an open framework for the development of self-government. There has been a doctrinal secret, let's say, of constitutional doctrine, with one visit every time more restrictive. And, in this sense, the judgment against the Statute of Catalonia supposes the failure of the system of democratic legitimacy, of the territorial constitution of the State. The system that had been established, through the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy, was that the Parliament of Catalonia proposed it, agreed with the State, with its institutions, and the Catalan people ratified it. And from here, through the appeal to the Constitutional Court, there is, therefore, the challenge of the ratified State for citizenship, and, therefore, the system fails, the system fails, and there is a clear difference between legality and legitimacy, in terms of democratic support to which is the constitutional legal order that applies to Catalonia. At the time, there was no political response on the part of the State to this situation; it left the issue to rot – it left the issue to rot. When in July 2010 there was the ruling of the Constitutional Court, the Zapatero Government did not do anything. And then, in a context of economic crisis, above the Government of the People's Party, which clearly had a program of re-centralisation in the conjunction of the State, and what it did was, precisely, going in the totally contractual line. Also in the last few years we have seen how there has been a process of media construction of an enemy within the State; and that enemy within the State we are the independents. The construction of an inner enemy, what it produces is that it ended up legitimizing the violation of phonental rights depending on whether you are the inner enemy or not. It is the criminal law of the enemy, which is what is happening today over independence, and that this construction of an enemy within the Spanish State, of independence, like the great enemy within the Spanish State, this media construction, that is not citizen, because always – always – we find, in very broad sectors of the Spanish State's citizenship, solidarity, understanding and willingness to dialogue..., but the media construction makes that today, therefore, there are clear political limitations in order to address a dialogue on the future of Catalonia. Besides, we have found that, obviously, in the accounts of giving a political response, the People's Party Government, at its time, with a clear connivance of the rest of the powers of the State, decided that the response had to be a criminal response and not a political response, and, therefore, it faced the aspirations of the Catalan society with violence and repression. I remember that when October 2017, the general tax student of the State said that he would complain against members of the Government of Catalonia for rebellion if they declared independence – said this: "If they declared independence – already on October 1 – today, they are juicing on October 1, eh? Not so much the declaration of independence, was juxtaposed on October 1st–, the vast majority of the academic community in the criminal law of the State was put their hands in the head, but it was against the inner enemy; the inner enemy that is Catalan independence, and therefore ended up building a justification to support the accusations of rebellion against our companies and companies, against the independent leaders who, at these times, are being judged. There was someone who thought... and, therefore, they scheduled elections on 21 September, accompanied by a media campaign against the situation of the Catalan economy, bombarded, let's say so, by sea and air; someone thought that, before this situation of repression, the independence of a majority of the Catalan society would disappear, and, obviously, therefore, that this has not been so, because we have a country of firm convictions, in what way, of the plurality of settlements in this country, so there is, in this case, independence, that, despite the whole situation, it follows very important quotas of support that have not only been established, but also that, in this case, independence, that, despite the whole situation, it is still in existence. In this context, independence led to the motion of censure in the Spanish State, of a government coerced by corruption, after the Gürtel's sentence, and, certainly, the arrival of Mr. Pedro Sánchez in Moncloa meant a change of forms; it meant a change of forms, but in the background, few things have changed. There was an attempt to open the political dialogue, but what we have seen is that, in the phonenal elements, the State maintained the repressive line, is placed on the table the excuse of the division of powers, but the Advocate of the State rests on the execution of power, and, therefore, listen, let us say, the one established by the Government of the State, and there was, therefore, a maintenance of the repressive line. And we've seen this week, when the thirty-person processing aut was dictated, most of them public servants, but also suppliers, professionals of this country, with a construction acritically assuming the report of a civil guard, who, moreover, with reports totally have ideologically, and clearly, therefore, what is claimed is to process thirty people because it is not possible to process two million Catalans who voted 1 October. Therefore, this is the context. What's the solution? So the only solution you said, that is politics; to hear that this is a political problem and that what is needed is a political solution. In this sense, we arrived at a joint text, at a joint approach, the Government of Catalonia and the Government of the State, the 20th of December in Pedralbes. Obviously, with very long positions that we have, it was a document that certainly needs a few doses of ambiguity, when there are very long positions, but that established some basic elements that will eventually be resumed to build a future. It is recognized that there was a problem, on which, therefore, it differed on the origins, causes, etc., and, finally, on the proposals for a resolution, but it was agreed that there was a problem, that it required a political solution, that this political solution had to have a majority recovery of Catalan society, that it should be democratically endorsed and that it should be legally secure. I believe that these are the elements on which to build a dialog that brings a negotiation with the State to find a political solution. And, obviously, this political solution, for this government and also, therefore, I can understand, for the party that they support, it has to be, this approach must be a reference to the future of Catalonia, in which it is votes on the independence of Catalonia, that is, a reference to self-determination. We are aware that the Government of the State, at this time, is rejecting this proposal, but we must be able to build this negotiation mark. The Government of the State interrupted the negotiations that had been completed during the month of December and during the month of generation and the principles of fever to build, to institutionalize this dialog mark. Certainly, what gave the principle, which is the construction of independence as the enemy within the State, generated a media pressure that was also translated into internal pressures in the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, and, obviously, therefore, in all the external pressure on the part of the three parties of the Spanish nationalist right. But, here, we understand that we can spend the weeks, but the problem is still on the table, and the Catalan society's big ideas and consensus on how this issue can be solved are on the table. The 80_per_cent of Catalan citizenship wants a democratic exit. And so, now, we have the opportunity, there are some elections in the state sphere, and in the Congress of Deputies and the Senate that is being held... so, to a good extent, they will condition the possibilities of dialogue. On behalf of the Government of the Generality, we do not rise from the table, we follow the table of dialogue and we hope that the new Government of the State will decide on it to find a democratic solution to the conflict between the Catalan society and the institutions of the State. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.5.0	Thank you, Vice President. For the answer, it's the return, again, of the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.6.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, so that's it, and I also share the vision that you said, because the horizons that the country has set..., and that we can hear, above all, reading the CEO, and I say that because I think we all have to give for good the results of the CEO, because, if they are valid to say that the government suspects, they have to be valid to say that 80 percent of the Catalan population wants a referendum, they have to be equally valid, because we are interested and because we are not interested. Therefore, effectively, the CEO, therefore, says and demonstrates that the 78,7_per_cent of Catalan society wants a reference and this given is supported during the last five years, which is that it does not change, that it is the political solution to the problem that exists in Catalonia in relation to the Spanish State. And people's real problems must be these, right? , because the CEO indicates that the first problem indicated for the Catalans and Catalans survey is the relationship between Catalonia and Spain. Therefore, the two governments, the Catalan Government and the Spanish Government must be able to give an answer to this. And, more than that, let me point out some more data, the 78,6_percent of the Catalan society suspects the monarchy, and a 75,9 says that it wants a republic like the form of government, that is also said by the Catalan society. In fact, the Catalan society, two thirds of the respondents say it has a sufficient level of autonomy, self-government, Catalonia, but it seems that those who take the data when they are interested in what they want to refocus. So, well, five years, 80 percent of Catalan society said that the solution to the relational problem between Catalonia and Spain is a reference. And we should take the examples that we have, for example, Scotland, Quebec and in so many other parts of the world, where, precisely, always, the exit passes through the ballot box, passes to respect the popular will. Mirin, in Scotland, called a reference, effectively, on independence. And when did he call? When the SNP obtained 45,4_per_cent of the votes in some elections– 45,4_per_cent of the votes in some elections–, certainly, participation from which it was 50,4_per_cent, participate in the elections 50,4_per_cent of the Scots and Scots, which gives a victory to the SNP with 45,4_per_cent of the votes, and what does the British Government do? So, say: "Secute, here we have a political problem, we have a political solution, that passes by to put the ballot boxes and that follows the Scots and Scots who freely decide the future of their country. This is what, a priori, goes on as democratic responses to debates, problems, democratic demands on the part of a country's citizens. But who was the solution to the Spanish State? So, as you said, Vice President, repression. In fact, what you want to make hear or fall is a false dichotomy, which is to say: "Or you give up what you think, or repression. Trien: either we give up, or we put them in jail or we disable them or we take them or we want them or we impute them, or we give them up and they won't get away with it. So, in this false dichotomy, no, no, it's far from where we'll pass, because we won't give up or pull back or stop complaining about the 80_percent of Catalonian citizenship, we won't do it – we won't do it – and, therefore, the one who's going back to the table; the table from which we certainly haven't risen; I was pleased to hear it, Vice-President, we haven't risen, so that the interlocutor, like the other side of the table, has come back to see someone, because, if not, the one who triumphs are the authoritative attitudes, and, when they triumph the authoritative attitudes and the democracy is impoverished, the one who grows to the right, the one who's going to the right, the better, the better, the better, the better, the better, the better, the better, the better, the better, the better. Today, Oriol Junqueras told us, in a letter that sent us all the Republican Left militia this morning, saying: "If prison is the price to defend democracy and freedom, I will pay it. And that's exactly what broke this false dichotomy that I gave them: we don't want to repress or give up anything. We will go forward, continue to defend our ideas, which are the majority of the people of Catalonia, and replace them, Vice-President, that, from the government, from the future elections of the Spanish State, and that, therefore, that there is a government again, the demands continue firm, is returned to the table of dialog and is found, once for all, a political fate to this political demand, because, if not, the answer that the Socialist Party will give so often will be the same as the one that Mariano Rajoy gave. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. Again, and to make the answer, it's the vice president of the government's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.8.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, Member, there are two questions that, at the time of approaching the political dialogue with the State, will need to be analysed in depth, and I believe that, from our position, we need to make clear about these two questions that someone claims are bound to negotiate. The first is the dilemma, when there is a divorce, between legality and democratic legitimacy, and, here, the question is not that there is no democracy, so that a legal order is applied without the democratic consent of the citizen, nor the opposite, so that there is a directly referendum democracy without a legal system that allows for predictability and gives sufficient legal security to the citizen for the protection of minorities, for the protection of phonenal rights. Therefore, neither law without democracy nor democracy without law; the question is law and democracy. And, therefore, the current legal order cannot be the political limit to the dialect and this has been one of the points in which the discussions we have had with the Government of the State, so it has been difficult to move forward, is to say, there is one who says: "No, no, you are making the proposals that you consider appropriate, but everyone must fit within the current vision of the Constitution. So, then, this is going to be a lawyer or academic debate, but it's not going to be a political debate. What we are proposing is: we have to make political proposals, we have to be able to reach consensus, and then these consensuses have to be translated into changes in the legal order, they have to be translated into normal changes. That is, that is to say, the current legality cannot be the limit of political debate, because, if not, we would never change the laws, if not, this Parliament would not change the law, and we would only devote ourselves to questioning, right? Ask the government. No, no; this Parliament changes laws; therefore, the current laws are not a limit in this Parliament at the time of discussion. Then, when a consensus is reached, the laws are changed; so this is what we also need to do in the question between Catalonia and the State. Second question. The demo. Who decides? And this is one of the classic debates on these issues. There is one who says: "Caltalonia is the property of all Spaniards, and therefore, all citizens of the Spanish State must decide on the future of Catalonia. Those who see Catalonia is the same, let's say, but the whole thing... Clearly, this, when it turns out that there are some that are 40_million and the others that are 7_million_i_mig, so obviously it does not give the balance to guarantee the democratic legitimacy of who are the laws that apply to Catalonia. We understand clearly that the demo, that the people who have to decide are the citizens of Catalonia; it is the citizens of Catalonia who have to decide their future. And then, a decision is made, this is to be articulated; as the result is to be articulated, so, in shape..., agreeing as it is not only articulated with the State, but also with the European Union. It is fixed in the difference of criteria, in democratic terms, between the question of Catalonia and how Brexit was treated. Brexit, which I believe... go, I suppose, if you had been a British citizen, then you would have voted in favour of the remnant. But, Brexit..., although it disagrees with the decision that the citizens of the United Kingdom were democratically elected, the outcome is accepted and the exit is negotiated. And this is a necessary precondition for any political debate that ended up going through the polls. If we establish that the ballot boxes are the mechanism, we have to accept the result. And this is what we will have to demand on both sides, also in the Spanish State: a reference to the future that Catalonia has, a reference to self-determination, that there must be a prior deliberation. It has not been possible, in the debates on independence, to make a preliminary deliberation in this country, because the deliberation was whether it could be voted or could not be voted... ; no, no, there must be a deliberation on the pros and cons of the independence of the country and of the other options that there may be on how Catalonia articulates itself territorially with regard to the State, without threats and respecting the result, because, if not, there is no guarantee of political pluralism; if not, it does not guarantee that the diversity of ideas, legitimate..., because the independence of a country is not countered to the phonenal rights, because, if not, it would have dissolved all the countries, beginning with the Spanish State. Therefore, if the Spanish State has the right to be an independent state, the Catalan society also has the right, and this does not violate the right to use. Therefore, it is a legitimate political idea, and therefore we must be able to make this debate. We will persist in this dialogue with the State, and the best way to achieve that is to advance. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] To strengthen the great consensus that, in this sense, there is to Catalan society...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.9.0	Vice-President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.10.0	...and this government will work tirelessly to achieve it. Thank you very much, President; honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.11.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Question to the Government on the regulation of urban leases in the civil law of Catalonia]] [[300-00117/12]] It is now the return to the next inquiry, which is on the regulation of urban leases in Catalonia's civil law, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group, and exposes the inquiry to the deputy Jordi Orobig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.12.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselors, vice president, deputies, deputies, will allow me before I begin my intervention to take advantage of this Faristol to address a greeting and a congratulations to a company, the Oriol Junqueras; a member company that today, badly [[applause]] They can't be among us to celebrate these 50 years. It's an important tape, completing 50 years. I, that I've overcome them with creases [[relays]] I'd like to go back. In any case, well, we have a lot of fears to talk about, and some of them, even though the government and the formations that we've been doing to it, that we're just talking about monotheme, we have a lot of sensitivities, and among them social, huh? And, in this context, we are all used to listening to terms such as asset real estate, "infrahabitation, "housing emergence, "gentrification, and terms that are concrete or that are much more tangible, aren't they? , as can be the increased abuse of the import of loggers. In this case, and in order to have a reference, therefore, objective, we can speak that the Incasòl has been able to determine that, in the last five years, there has been an increase in the price of rents of 29_per_cent for which it does to Catalonia and 38_per_cent to the city of Barcelona. This supposes, with this graphic so explicit, that a habitat of an area of approximately seventy-two meters_squares has gone from 682_euros per month to 949_euros per month in the city of Barcelona. It is clear that there are circumstances and facts that distort the prices of leases, such as the marketing of many habitats such as touristic establishments in the manner of touristic habitat. And it's also obvious that it's the responsibility of all institutions and administrations to look to get old for their citizens' rights, and we need to remember that, while many times the Spanish State leaves the chapter of fundamental rights that all citizens have, the right to a decent habitat is part of these fundamental rights. If the Spanish State wants to make it work, I believe that neither this Parliament nor the Government can do it, and it is from this point of view that this inquiry addressed to the Government precisely claims, therefore, to veto this fundamental right. Can they do it with them? I believe that, as I said, it is the responsibility of all public administrations to address this issue. We understand, if not more, that at the local and the Government levels of the Generality, there are different beginnings. No going any further, and as my company Ferran Civit always takes the opportunity to talk about his people, huh? I'll talk about mine, Lloret de Mar. We have approved a special plan, in this case, which precisely regulates the implementation of touristic habitat, precisely by establishing a maximum coefficient or maximum densities per zone, precisely because it does not interfere with the price of the habitation. And from this point of view, while we are aware, I insist, that from other departments of the Government of Catalonia, different initiatives are being approached to try to influence them, we believe that we cannot give up any of the tools with which we can count precisely for promoting policies that guarantee the right to housing of our citizens. It is clear that the regulation that the State has made of this matter does not help, and that the Law of Urban Leases, on 29/1994, initially seemed to set itself up in a successful way, as it allowed, and so on, to stabilize prices in circumstances that, obviously, were burdened by the owner, which, as a result, we have to bear, beyond what it does in housing, has had a significant impact on historical trades; in fact, it is a circumstance that is not now appropriate or does not take into account. What is certain is that the different legislative changes that existed after 2013, such as that of the Spanish Government, in this case the Government of the People's Party, which is obviously not very interested in the right to housing of our citizens, therefore, allow this reduction in the terms of the lease, let's remember, from five years earlier plus three hypotheticals or extendables in Law 29/1994, we went to the reduction, until a three-year term, of the leases, therefore, obviously all these legislative changes, all these circumstances have involved these abusive increments that our people suffer. It is also true that, in this case, the Socialist Party's policy did not serve to bring this about. From our point of view, they've given themselves check sticks that haven't been used to fix the situation. And proof of that is approval of a decree that, in the end, was not validated. And, in this case, a decree, approved the March of this year, 2019, which is pending, in this case, its validation for the Permanent Congress of Deputies. Therefore, from this point of view, we understand that it is essential to address from the dynamic of the Catalan civil law to that competence which is its own, that which is determined in our Statute of autonomy, which speaks, in this case, of the exclusive competence for this field; an environment which is not new. We all know that Catalan legislation is paid back to history, that even the dictator Franco, at a certain point in history, was forced to accept its validity. And from this point of view, there is this coding process that we follow over time, they understand that it is, or is there, a recurrence, such as..., in fact, grabbing the thread of intervention, of the first intervention that the Councilwoman held before this Parliament when she came to talk about which were her policies at the front of the department and which were the legislative initiatives that, in short, she wanted to promote. From this point of view, you know, the last legislature completed the Civil Code; we have completed a process of harmonization and codification of all this open book, of all this open code that has been working out of the hands of the General Codification Commission of Catalonia, but it is certain that, on the basis of obligations and contracts, other than the regulation of other contractual figures, and that they also comply with the fact that other types of leases, such as contracts, may be the subject of regulation, such as the regulation of other specialists in the civil law, and may be urban property, therefore, obviously, we understand that there is an objective competence, on the part of regulation, as may also be the rule of other specialists in the civil law, and as may be the rule of urban property, so that we understand that there is an objective competence, on the part of regulation, as well as other specialists in the civil law, and as the rule of urban property, obviously, we understand that there is an objective competence, on the part of law, as well as a rule of other specialists in the general right, as well as a rule, as a rule, as a rule of urban property, as well as well as a rule, as a rule, as a rule, as a rule, obviously, as a rule, obviously, as well as a rule, obviously, as a rule, as a rule, as a rule, as a rule, as a rule, as a rule, as a rule, obviously, as a rule, as a rule, as a rule, as a rule, as a rule, from the rule, from the rule, from the general, from the rule, from the general, from the rule, from the general, from the general, from the general, from the general, from the general, from the general, from the general, from the right, from the general, from the general, from the general, from the general, from the general, from the general, from the right, from the general, from the general, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from It is for this reason that this question which they intend to ask on the table is this problem and demands, in this case, that the head of the department, logically, the Councillor of Justice, the Councillor Esther Capella, therefore, in this case, explain to us or to us in advance what are the lines of action in this regulatory framework, that we understand that he should intervene as a minimum in the minimum duration of the loguers, and, therefore, we would like to..., if we can make progress, this legislative framework which is expected to last, that, to the extent possible, it will also be possible to limit the prices and to address the guarantees in an effective way both to the outsiders and to the tenants. The purpose of this new legislative initiative, logically, should be to facilitate access to housing for all our citizens; to make it compatible – because it must be compatible – with residential use with tourist services, i.e., the commercialization of housing in the way of tourist accommodation, and to end with the fact that, materially and personally, it affects all our citizens more, therefore, it attacks the estabilization than any project of life, whether individually or collectively, in this case, in the context of a family, it needs, as may be the case of the estabilization in its habitat; and, also, therefore, the depersonalization, the loss of identity, in this case, in the context of a family, as may be that of the estabilization in its habitat; and, as a result, the depersonalization, the loss of identity, in most cases, of a family, requires, as may be the case of the physicalization in which it originates, in the context of the physicalization, of the physicalization, of the physicalization, of the physicalization, of the physicalization, of the physicalization, the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the physicalization of the You're done here, Counselor. Therefore, we are waiting for your answers. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, has the word the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.14.0	Good morning, President. MPs, MPs; MP Orobtig, Catalonia has historically had a civil right that, together with language and culture, has been one of its distinct pieces of identity that make us... in any case, that are more emblematic. For centuries, since the time of the Catalan counties, family relations, couples or marriages, veneration and even economics have followed a set of norms and legislation that have adapted to the time and character of Catalans and Catalans. It is a millennial right which began to collect from the middle of the 13th century and which had such a profound level of social relation that even all the decrees of the New Plant were obliged to maintain and respect it. [[Rialles.]] Yes, they didn't fight, Nova Planta's decrees forced, imposed that they couldn't be changed, if it's true that it banned its development and its updating. Catalonia's civil right has configured us as the people and society. With the recovery of autonomy, and starting from the compilation of the Civil Law of Catalonia approved in 1960, which was referred to by the Member of Parliament Orobtig, the Parliament of Catalonia has finally had a huge task to develop and renew our own civil law. With the approval of the first law of the Civil Code, now more than fifteen years ago, he pulled out the coding task again under the open code principle to provide Catalonia with a complete civil code. Today, Catalonia counts with a civil code propi, tendentially complete, as the central norm of the private legal system, fact that it has converted the Spanish civil regulation into a subsidiary legal_marc, it is said, that applies mainly the Civil Code of Catalonia, and, in a subsidiary way, the Spanish Civil Code. Thanks to the task of various generations of jurists and to the close collaboration between the public authorities and civil society, articulated mainly through the Commission of Codification of Catalonia – that I make here the falca to tell them that it is a specialized organ that relies on the Department of Justice, integrated in an equal way by women and men jurists of recognition of the prestige of the academic and professional sphere – we now have a useful civil right to give response to the social challenges of present and future. The Government of Catalonia, and, in particular, the Department of Justice that I encapsulate, as the department competent in civil law, is fully compromised with the need to regulate urban leases. As I said, our civil rights must respond to the social challenges of our country. I fully share what Mr. Orobtig said, that one of the main reptes we have is to face the constant price escalation on the lloger floors. In the context of Catalonia, the average price of the logger has increased by 29_per_cent in the last five years, and we have reached 698_euros in mid-January, that is, one hundred_sixty_euros more than mid-January than 2013. Councillor Calvet, head of the Department of Lands and Sustainability, holds the skills in housing and work to give response to the emergence of housing with three objectives: to increase the housing stock of public protection of the logger, to have more and better instruments to combat emergencies and denations, and to help moderate the prices of loggering of free habitats. From the Department of Justice, from the hand of the Codification Commission, we are pushing a law of urban leases to give more and better instruments to the local authorities and the Department of Land and Sustainability, to ensure access to housing, to face gentrification and to age because the habitats that are in place really follow habitats and follow worthy lives. We have to regulate the lease contract, of course, and, basically, for three reasons: firstly, because it is a priority objective of this legislature, as I expressed at my first appearance, before the Commission of Justice, in exposing the objectives and actions of the department, and I took the firm commitment that we would regulate and make a law of leases for Catalonia, in order to guarantee the right of everyone to have access to a decent habitat. In second place, because we have the skills to do it. I repeat, I say the law, and we have the skills to do it. The Government of Catalonia has exclusive competence in the matter of civil law, as established in Article 129 of the Statute of Autonomy. I said the law. Thirdly, we have a mandate from the Parliament of Catalonia, which we demand; the final provision of Law 4/2016 of 23 December 2016 on measures to protect the right to housing of persons at risk of social exclusion, obliges us to draw up a draft law which aims to facilitate access to housing with the modus operandi of loguer, ensuring the security and stability of the contractual relationship, and adopting measures which contribute to avoiding increases in yields that are disproportionate. It is for this reason that we are working on a new regulation that leads us to a legislative system in the field of logue that promotes and protects the logue as one of the basic models of access and housing, in order to achieve progressively and homogeneously the increment of the park until the standards of the European countries are fulfilled, a new regulation that covers the duration of contracts, the causes of resolution, divestments and subrogations, the preferential acquisition rights, the causes of suspension and extinction, the provisions and other guarantees, the rights and obligations of the contractual parties, and helps to de-judicialize conflicts between the tenants and the tenants. Our intention is to overcome a state legislation that..., despite the timid improvements that have been introduced in the latest decree that was passed to the Permanent Council, the Royal Decree on urgent measures in the field of housing and housing, are very far – far – from European standards in the promotion and protection of housing, and therefore also far – far – far – from the guarantees and balance that must be maintained by the parties in a contract. Among other aspects – this is the will we have in this sense – to change the duration of the contract according to the new law – it is five years for physical persons and seven years for legal persons – seems to be insufficient; we are betting on longer contracts, so we stabilize the market of the loguer, thus increasing the duration of contracts. The contract's non-renewal notice term is currently four_months for the tenant and two_months for the lessor. We seem insufficient, and we bet, too, for a longer term. The bond and additional guarantees, deposit or bank endorsement, which may be required at these times to lease are in total three_months of logger. It also seems excessive and we bet to reduce it. In fourth place, we do not share that the tenants can renounce the right of purchase preferential in case of sale of the habitat. And, in five places, the mechanisms provided for to certify the state in which the immovable is found are absolutely anachronistic and do not guarantee the legal certainty or fairness of the parties to the contract. Finally, I fully share with you, Mr Orobtig, that we need a new law that allows you to contain the climb for the price of the logger. We have a duty to avoid abuses such as the disproportionate increase in the cost of the logger, to the head, only, of three years of contract, which contribute to the expulsion, as you said, of the income and non-residential use of the immovables. For this reason, the minimum duration of the contracts to stay in Catalonia will be between six and two years. I am convinced that the stability of the market must serve to reduce the difference between the accelerated increase in the price of the logger and the stagnation of wages. And it must go beyond the index of the price reference. The rule that we are preparing must enable the competent department in the field of housing, and, in its case, also in local areas, which can limit the price of the logger. Only then can we cope with the disproportionate increase in the logger. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on health transport and emergence services]] [[300-00120/12]] The next question is about health transport and the emergence service, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unit Candidate - Constituent Claim. To expose it, has the word Mr Vidal Aragonese deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.16.0	Some of us are talking here today in the Parliament of Catalonia because many other companies and many other companies have left the best of their lives building a movement that is that of the independent left. An April 11th we want to remember the Guillem, which not only left the best of his life, but the feixism took it out. Guillem Aguló, neither obliterated nor forgiven. [[Greetings.]] It is very expensive, now, to continue with an inquiry like this, but surely those companies that have left their lives what they would want would be exactly this, that we also came here to do politics in the most concrete expression. Look, if we're talking about the private management of the Catalan health system, we need to talk about what the private management of what is public has been about. We need to talk, at last, about the expression of management of the political model of socio-vergency. We need to talk, above all, about confusion between the public and the private. We have heard many times explain the private companies that go into public management, the public services that are run in private spaces, or public spaces used for private health companies. This transforms the Catalan health system into a reality of confusion of interests or confusion of interests, model of rotating doors, facilitator of corruption, and model that also means a transfer of public returns, from public resources to private interests. In any case, we want to make it clear that ours is a political approach that does not differentiate between whether the problem is that there are good and bad companies. It's not about that. It is about identifying a form of management, the private, that does not give results according to our needs, and establishing a form of management, the public, the direct, that can be an effective alternative and with better results; and so, yes, we also want to make it clear that the management of public health under the private form has been a permanent focus of crime and irregularity, surely the great paradigm. And we want to do this with concrete facts and with concrete expressions. In order not to go far far, rehabilitation contest and logo that was awarded the year 2012, there are Boi Ruiz Health Advisor. It meant 200_million. So, look, about that competition, the one that said Competition, more than putting a penalty for 1_million euros to four rehabilitation companies, is that it is distributed the market, that they expelled the competition and that they had been unlawfully associated. One of the people who owned one of these four companies was Cat Salut's director, Mr. Padrosa, at the time. He went out to the media to explain that it was a mistake and that they simply had not revoked his powers. Obviously, more than he's a revoque or he's not a revoque, he'd been in possession of one of those days before the contract was awarded. And, if we are talking about the great paradigm of corruption or potential corruption, in public health, we also have to refer to the Innova case; in Innova case, we can see all the expressions, how to manage in a private way there is corruption or potential permanent corruption. If we're talking about the Innova case, then we'd have to remember that there were up to twenty registrars who were imputed, convergence and union registrars, the extinct convergence and union – or we think it's extinct –, the PSC, the Initiative and the Republican Left, then imputed. We also want to remember what it was like in those judicial acts, interlocutors that manifested – and we read it literally –: "Constant low-intensity corruption, lack of public money control. And in that judicial action there was also an action on health transportation. In fact, even the president of the health transport employer was arrested and charged. With these antecedents, we are told that from 2013, when the events were still hot, it is beginning to prepare the contest of what has been the paradigm, also, of private management through health transport; contests in which we have a preparation and some departures where there are permanent arrangements, and where, sometimes, we have more information through the enterprises of the sector than not from the public power. Initial award with multiple resources; multiple resources that, at the very least, were concerned that the documentation or information that was given by some of the companies was certain, and placed on the market, that it did not start at the beginning of 2015, nor was it only started when they were notified of the departures, is to say, during the summer of 2015, and that, with a bit of luck, during late 2015, it became effective. We are talking about one of the great public contracts of that time, in fact, four years ago – in fact, four years ago, not even four years ago, yet – which means the health transport of Catalonia for a period of two years and for a total of 2,256_million euros. In the award, essentially, they took what we call the pasty, three companies, although after the appeal, some others, and, look, we will give them a given: on one of the companies, this parliamentary group made a complaint to the public prosecutor for a very simple matter; it was involved in an investment fund, this same investment fund participates in a company that manages one of the great amusement parks in this country, and the foundation of this amusement park, coinciding with the award process, made an award of 3_million euros to one of the reference hospitals of the Catalan public system, although agreed. The D.A. thinks that's not a crime. We're moving the facts, because everyone can appreciate it if someone thinks there's this reality of giving 3_million euros no more. But, I guess the worst was about to arrive, that the inn was on the way and the operation. And we will not make an analysis or valuation of it, from the CUP; we will make references to what the same consultancy said about the inn in march and function. Says the councillor, or at the time the councillor said: "Many incidences since it was implanted. Numbers of incidents have been detected in Girona's health region. This was said by Councillor Comín, our esteemed political exile. On the functioning of the service, it would be endless, to do the rest, but look what also said, in official documents, the same consultancy, now, not so long ago: « The complaints of users of the transport have increased a 78_per_cent between February-March 2015 and February-March 2016. It is necessary to increase coordination between the central units and the territories, since the implementation of the new model involves an excessive fragmentation of the process between the two levels. The expected best of the comprehensive and centralized management of non-urgent health transport is not being achieved. I need to rethink it. And, in the band of all this, which is what the same councillor has recognized about how the health transportation service works, we want to move them from other questions. First question: that we consider that the system of assistance has been completely instigated. Before there was a multidisciplinary team guarantee more UBA, and now we don't have that reality. To explain it, and everyone can hear it: we don't always have the guarantee that a doctor will join the service they provide. Surely, the counselor will explain to us that before a test is done, and, therefore, it is valued, but this does not mean that, many times, with need of metge, the metge appears. According to the question: they want to disappear – or, as a minimum, we would like you to clarify the advice – which is known as interhospital units, and therefore a way, for us, to mismanage the service. Third question: the fleet of vehicles is enveloping. It cannot be that, with what salvation means, we have the fleet of vehicles in operation as we have it today. And the fourth question: a mismanagement of programmed routes. And you – and now we're talking about the department – are fully connoisseurs and connoisseurs of this reality; so much so that you have sanctioned without stopping concessions. That, yes, we..., nor the collection of workers and workers« Technicians in struggle today know with all precision who was the set of sanctions that have been made effective, because we still hope that the women answered us, the council, to the requests for information that have been made. By the way, if he does it now, he'll do it all in an extemporaneous way. And with all this we would have to ask ourselves: "So, how is health transport holding up? So, it stands for the permanent release of the workers and the workers of the sector; a permanent release that means excess work, and that means, many times, to sacrifice mats and to sacrifice rests, but at the same time, it is also they and they who are most painted this management of the servants in a private way. Renting your stuff home; we went to the Labour Inspectorate to make sure it's not done. Precarious contractions, which come to mean, many times, only charge a 60_per_cent for its functions that mark the convenient collection. Permanent loss of purchasing power; unremunerated and hourly training that does not qualify as work, and legal breaks that are not complete. And that's not just the responsibility of businesses; it's also the responsibility of consulting. Another thing is that the default is from businesses. Respect, too – we want to be strict – : there is some concrete company that complements – we want to say here – but not the generality of companies; the majority are permanently incomplicating. Yes – we want to finish our intervention as we started – it is not about good and bad companies, it is not about bad practices; it is about the system, it is about the organization of the system. And, for us, now is the time when the councillor, before these incompliments, has to comply with his obligations, which is to rescue the contract; to rescue the contract not for a new private management contest, but to be able to manage in a public way: proposal for sanitary transport of management and provided one hundred_per_cent public. And, finally: you, counsel – and also your party, we want to say so – must make a bet; a clear political bet. If you are betting to consolidate the historical model of Convergence and Union – private management – or if you are betting for an authentically progressive model; or, as we say now [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] If you are the independence of the trades or you want to be the independence in favor of the classes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.17.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.18.0	... popular. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.19.0	Thank you. To answer the question, the greeting counselor has the word. Lady Vergés, when she wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.20.0	Thank you, President. Members, deputies and the people who accompany us, also, here to the public; so yes, we talk about public contests, we talk about how is the management of the public services of our country. I want to talk about the service, I want to talk about what we have at the disposal of the citizenry to provide this health service. We held – and you explained it very well – the largest bid in Catalonia for a public contest. Previously, the SEM only managed the urgent part of the transport. At that time, when we were discussing the health transport competition, I found myself here in Parliament, I am a Member, a lot of debates in the Health Commission, with many proposals for a resolution that put emphasis on where an ambulance base was to be located, where that emergency health transport ambulance was to be. And I was working with the government, at that time, back, because it was going to be a contest all together, because we were going to have to compete urgently and not urgently at that time, that maybe this would lead to a lot of problems in its implementation, and that was the fight that I was having as a deputy at that time, because I knew that we were playing a minimum of six years of public service. I've got a lot going on here, we've been playing at this least six years of public service. I defend – I defend it – because this Parliament with a lot of consensus also defends it, a public and universal system. I am very clear that we are financing with the resources of the citizens' butts and citizens of this country; with the resources that we have with solidarity, in the face of public services for the people who need it, not for the people who are literally paying quotas. Therefore, I am very clear about what system we have and what is the system I want to defend and what is the system I want to defend in the future. This, yes, in that competition, the only one..., well, I may not say "the only one," but one of the positive things that I found there was that, for the first time, on the part of the non-urgent, that it is the one that is causing us a lot of implementation problems, or that has generated a lot of implementation problems until now, for the first time, we had the ability to hold our power, in the power of the system, in the power of the public system to the Generalitat de Catalunya, via the SEM, the information of five were the services that we were lending. Until that moment – until that moment – there were private companies that were managing the service, that presented invoices and that, religiously, the CatSalut paid, without having control of the information. For me, this is absolutely uplifting. I want to show you here, not just to you and your parliamentary group, but to the whole Parliament and to the citizens of Catalonia, our commitment; our commitment to this control of public service; our commitment to this service as essential as that of health transport, the urgent, for one gang, and the non-urgent, for the other, because it is true that we must seek that this service is not only not there, but there is still the highest quality. And we said, "Thirteen batches of cop is a mess. Without the knowledge that we had, like the Generalitat de Catalunya, at that time, to make this contest, it would cause us many problems. And so it was. And that's how Councilman Comin recognized it. And so we saw it in Girona's lot. And so we did, and we've done it before, putting in control tools and to have these data and this information. We are working; we are working very intensively to manage also, directly, the share of health transport not urgent. We are working because prescribers also have administration tools, precisely, for managing the demand for health transportation. This administrative improvement on the part of the prescribers, who are hospitals and health centres, is also the best management of the entire public service. And where are we going? - Where are we going? We have a tool, which is said Pandora, that this tool must be able to collect all the information; that Pandora follows the tool also for the prescribers, that they follow not those who contract directly or those who make a petition directly to the companies, but that the petition is ours, we control it, and we are controlling this management. This information that we'll end up having after all this recourse that, I'm saying, and I'm feeling it and it's still done... is that the information about the whole system will be kept by us. And that allows us to be prepared for when these six years end. This allows us to be prepared, because we do not only have the Sanitary Transport Commission, which is meeting three times a year, which has the SEM, the health regions of the CatSalut, with the objective of vetting the compliment of the contest and the decisions that they also put in better, but we have territorial operational commissions to follow the health transport, where there are, for each health region, the SEM, the providers of the service, the region through the CatSalut, and the health centres, which are the prescriptors of this demand for health transport, we follow the compliment of Instruction 7/2017, which, in the end, says how this quality is to be provided. We can improve the instruction, we can do a lot of things, but we need to follow it; follow the better ones, follow the correction of the incidences. If there are any incidences, it's because they can correct it; or can't they? If there are measures for the highest quality – and you've talked about the routes and I'll try to talk about it later too – it's because we can talk where we're close. It is the territorial routes, we need to talk to them at the territorial level with the companies, with the SEM, which is who has to control them at this time, with the Cat Salut, which is, in the end, responsible for these contracts, and, obviously, with the prescribing centres. Every two months these meetings must be held. We have put an express person to follow the non-urgent health transport, which is going to all these territorial commissions. And these commissions also make better proposals, like, for example, the Alt Maresme and the Selva Marítima, which ended up expanding a launching service between the two centers, Blanes-Callella. So, why? Because it was found that it was necessary to do so. This is not perfect, but the commitment of this government, this councillor, this department and the EMS is absolutely old for the service we are providing to our citizens. These facts I said the other day to the question... which is about penalties. And, besides, I said to him, "My will, and I think that everyone's will should not be going to the world controlling and punishing businesses, but it is a sign of the will to control this. For me, the priority is that you don't have to penalize businesses, that the service is lending itself properly. Do you think that, in the period 2011-2014, it was set in motion two penalties for the value of 180,000 euros– 180,000, eh? – of a contest of millions that you have been talking about – two penalties of up to 180,000 euros. In this contest we carry eighty-eight penalties worth more than 1_million euros. And I said to him, "This is not what pleases me. These data only show our firm willingness to guarantee the quality of this service. And they show that we, with the tools and the management that we're doing right now, can have the opportunity... and I said, I gave it to them, didn't I? What's going on and we're going to talk about the model, why, what's to come from these six years, okay? We can discuss how we will do it – because obviously, I think it would be a bit of a mess to do it all again, because of the implementation problems – as we can age much better for the working conditions that health transport workers have today, as we can age the environmental criteria that we will have to go through, as are all public competitions, and obviously with social clauses, which we will always and from then on have to introduce into absolutely all the public competitions that you do in this country. We are also aware of what the labour reform did – what the labour reform did –, that labour reform of the PP and the PSOE of 2012, which now allows people to be engaged in practices for two years, which after that they can not be hired and that above they are charging a 40_per_cent less than they should be charged for the work they are doing. Companies must respect the conditions of the competitions. And, possibly, the competitions weren't old enough for these workers' working conditions. And we – I have said on other occasions –, of our entire health system, we are facilitators of the dialog, always, between workers and entrepreneurs. In this case, we cannot replace collective bargaining – and you know it perfectly well – because the autonomy of the shares is sacred. Now, yes, facilitators always. We, in the margin, say, in the companies that have to respect the conditions of the competitions, here we are with absolute compromises. We have talked about many other issues, such as the aging of vehicles, etc., which I think in the reply, because I'm running out of time, I can also expose our commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now, for the answer, it's the return, again, of the deputy. When you're ready, Mr. Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.22.0	In the first place, from the department, what you're saying is what your model is. And they say in a clear way, in a concrete way, that you have the same model, that of private management for which you bet Citizens, for which you bet the Popular Party, for which you bet Joints for Cat; we think, after all, that also the PSC-PSOE. They have to say, it's all right. We must be honest and honest. You say that you believe in this organizational system where it manages are private companies. If nothing happens, ma'am will advise; but don't make you see, in confusion, that you are betting for what is public, when what you do is a clear bet for private management. And then they start to argue that this is more effective and that it gives more results; but the problem is here, that they haven't been able to translate us yet, more than you say they have many data, that this is more effective and gives better results. They tell us – and I suppose we'll have to support it now in the reply, because then we can't counter – that we're dogmatic, because we believe in a public cent_per_cent management system. So look, you have to explain to us yet someone – someone – why private management gives better results and is more efficient; because of the experiences we have until today, no one has shown us that, for health transportation, private management is more efficient and has better results. They do not, therefore, show us any other private management services when we have public ownership. And, also, in this modeling exercise, you tell us: "So this is the fault of labor reform. You had a few departures; a few departures as to the precariousness of the workers; a few departures can be limited to the type of contract; a few departures can be conditioned on who the remuneration is; a few departures can be placed as essential clauses, and therefore you can recover the contract if the companies fail to complete this. But don't do that, you're leaving them. We also tell them that, for us, this is not the alternative, but if today there is this reality of working conditions, it is because it is also in those departures that he did not want to place. We do not answer – and we give it with all respect, he will advise, because neither are we asking him to you but to the council, and you are not the most responsible – in the four concrete questions we ask him. But, above all, give a clear and concrete answer to the question we are asking you that it is the spring of the os: will you keep the continuing failures of the companies that manage the private transport service and will not recover the contract? Will you, even if you are in a 2025 perspective, when that contract ends, manage it privately? You have to give us an answer. Say yes or no. It's binary. You don't have to do an exercise so you don't end up contesting. And, look, let's give it all the respect, I wouldn't use the name "Pandora to process data, because, in the end, what we have is that Pandora's box opens, which is what will happen when we can see all the data there, and what's going on in private public transport management, and that's what we have. Pandora's box will open when we have all these data, and Pandora's box will open when we have a sense of the Innova case. So even I seem a little uncertain about the way in which you have called this data processing. They say, or you will have to explain to us, if a worker in the public sector, contracted directly – a civil servant, an employee or a worker –, is inconclusive in a hard and guilty way, what does the Catalan Public Administration do? What do you do, when a hard and guilty worker or a hard worker is incomplete? I suppose you have the answer: the comiaden. The comiaden, it's canceling the contract. Why do you give another treatment to businesses? Why? Why do they give them another treatment? Because there are heavy and guilty incompliments, not a concrete assumption, which can answer many questions when we speak of a worker, but of a form of trapping management, and we say so, "trapping. Therefore, they do not do this policy of being hard on the weakest people and being weak on the hardest companies. And the last one says to us: "Take a game. So look, so much so that we've already done so up to three requests for information to still work more on the model you're managing, to get more information. We've done this job. You still haven't done the job that corresponded to them, which was to answer us and give us this information. Therefore, we want to convey it, with all humility, that they tell us to take part, when we are already doing so, and you are not giving us the data of which you are obliged. And we also tell them one other thing: if it's that we've already played in relation to health transportation, and we've played a double game. The double game is, for a band, to accompany the workers and the workers who are fighting for a public service of quality, the workers and the workers of public transport, and also to bet on a management system that is 100_per_cent public, and their party and department must give answers. What are they, independence? [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] which is put to the service of the interests of the entrepreneurs...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.23.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.24.0	...or the independence that is to be placed in the service of the popular classes? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.25.0	Thank you. Finally, to make the answer, it's the Councilwoman's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.26.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, they're leaving. We didn't write them, and I know it perfectly well. And you know, we were... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no. And you know, that we were scrupulously following these departures; and you know, that we found ourselves with the same impediments that you found, that you were not giving us information, and that all the information that we had was for another gang. We work for a republic to serve people; to serve people and public services, public services for everyone, as are the right to salvation. And I don't think that's fair to discuss. You want to talk about the model, and to me it seems perfect, talk about the model. When here he proposed a national salvation pact, which could be an adient tool or not, could be well contextualized in time or not, it was raised on the first day – you were raised on the first day. And I, who at that time was a deputy, was at all meetings, you're selling yes, you're selling no, for eight months, with all this sector that you say. Why do I want to tell you something, too, huh? Interests are not only due to the simple fact that it was managed by one or it was managed by another. Everyone's interests, which are legitimate – interests of professionals, interests of collectivities, interests of colleges, interests of unions, interests of entities, interests of the territory – exist despite the fact that it is managed by one and the other. And the interests are to be found in the jails, and they are to be able to debate. Therefore, I say to you, when we leave the dogmas at home, it seems very good that you say: "My model is this, and I say to you: I will talk about the model, we will talk about the model, and we want to prepare ourselves to remember this new model, that we need to be able to make it available and to remember why from 2021 we can go implanting. And you know, too, that legal certainty is very important, because, at the time of recovering contracts or making any reversal, we don't win after justice – we don't win after justice. We have to make sure we do this when we can win. While I, this councillor, the ESM and all the people who are working with and with whom I have been able to speak these last few days, which I have spoken to a great many, because I am very interested in the question that I have asked, I am very interested in this public service, and I have been absolutely interested in the most detailed details of everything that we are doing with respect to the vehicle, respecting the timetable and the recourse that is being made to the people, I have been interested until the last detail about this, which is what we are doing while we are doing; this, prepare us, keep the information in our power and not in the power of the companies, so that we can do, from this 2021 onwards, an implementation of a model that we decide differently. That won't be it. I don't like this one either, and I don't think it's the consent of this Parliament either. You wanted to talk about the vehicles, and we certainly had a lot of them, about vehicle accidents, and I asked, and I was insisting, what we did to all these vehicles and respect the service we provide. Vehicle audits are in place. I have asked for the sanctions that have been imposed on the vehicles. There have been no sanctions, but there have been the best. That is to say, yes, there have been proposals to say: "Listen, you need to improve this in the vehicle, and therefore, solution in this vehicle. Audits are either fan or fan because there is a random rotation of vehicles that are available, a new vehicle, or for complaints. Therefore, if you continue to complain in vehicles and are at the disposal of the SEM, the SEM will audit these vehicles. With regard to sanctions, in just two months that we have put a person to follow the medical transport not urgent, there have been twenty sanctions respecting the schedule, which must be done in about thirty minutes. And in the not programmed, which has a two-hour limit, we have an indicator that is calculating it and that, moreover, forms part of the variable part that these companies end up collecting. Is that perfect? No, no, Is it gonna get better? Surely, and I will also insist on this because the EMS can improve it, despite the fact that the departures are written in a certain way. All the other aspects of working conditions, of training, of regular rest periods, of the fact that it's a year ago that are not appropriate, I have said it before and I think it is relevant: to be facilitators, we will obviously ask companies to assume their responsibility because the working conditions of the workers who make the health service agree with the public service we want. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about trade camres]] [[300-00122/12]] The next question is about the chambers of commerce, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya. Introduce the inquiry Mrs Teresa Pallarès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.28.0	Thank you very much; thank you, President. Councillor, councillor, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. I would also like to join in today's congratulations on the anniversary of our partner and vice president Oriol Junqueras, who I think fifty years is a long time... So good that I can celebrate it together with all his family and all those we consider to be his. He'll advise, today we're talking about the trade cams. The corporations of merchants, industrialists and navigators have a very long tradition in Catalonia, and, if we pay for it in history, the official chambers of commerce would say that they are heretics of those entities that already served the Sea Llotja, the Sea Consulate and the Trade Board, those entities so important for Catalonia in the medieval era. But it was the year 1886, specifically April 9, when a royal decree was passed in the Spanish, following the footsteps of the French trade camres set up earlier with the aim of creating a standard mark to create them in our country. That same year, 1886, was founded that of Barcelona, Terrassa, Sabadell, Palamós, and Reus. This, allow me, counselor, given that it is my city, I am proud to be able to say, it was there from the first moment, but it is true that, at our demarcation, the demarcation of Tarragona, many months later it was created the one of Tarragona, and, also, at the beginnings of..., or then, 1908, the one of Tortosa and that of Valls, or still, with a tradition also in our demarcation very first in this commercial activity. And I want to get a little bit too for the Tarragona, who currently have a woman in the presidency, and it's for many years the first time we've been in our demarcation. Counselrera, permit 'one thing only about Reus, which gives example of what was the role of the chambers at that time, and to Reus, precisely, that at that time was the second city of Catalonia, it was, precisely for the wine sector and for the trade of the aguardent, the one that brought us to the famous phrase of « Reus, Paris and London, which later, the merchants, also, that affect us to you and to me in this appearance, they added « and the street of Monterols. But with this, let's say, vocation to be on the side of trade, one of the first actions that we did was to be the one we agreed with the shipping company The Transatlantic Company, to promote foreign trade, and, somehow, were already the flag of this internationalizing concern that we have at our home, in Catalonia, right? They see that it's not much different from the work we all have now, let's say, commissioned into this realm. On this long track of trading chambers, promotion, advocacy of general interests has been very important, in order to improve above all the competitiveness of companies, and, with this entrepreneurial spirit that has also characterized us, to promote export, to discover new areas of business and also to lay the foundations for growth. Catalonia has been part of an institutional reality that I think is indisputable; for a band, representing the economic activities of the territory in which they are located, with a clear proximity from the territorial point of view, but also with areas of collaboration with the Administration; and we see a case, I believe that very powerful at the level of Fira Barcelona, with its involvement of the Chamber of Commerce, but also other territorial chambers, such as that of Reus or Tarragona, with the promotion table of the activity around the airport, right? o with concrete requests for infrastructure. So I think that, even now, the chambers have helped, I think we should say that they have also helped the modernization and competitiveness of enterprises in camps such as the deployment of new technologies, permanent training, which have also played a role in this area, promotion, logistical support, the promotion of new enterprises, and..., among others. What's wrong with us? In 2010, they suffered an important suffocation with Zapatero's decree, for certain economic circumstances that did not only affect us or Spain, but also at European level, but which did cause a brief reformulation of the chambers in a very ungrateful environment, the fruit of this economic crisis, right? We stay, let's say, without a standard framework that clearly determines how to finance, taking into account that the law still contemplates them as a public right corporation. Or else, somehow, there's an incongruity, isn't there? For a band, this performance of a public function without clearly having public resources to execute. And with this, in a situation of complicated transition, which has also caused this extraordinary extension of a legislature, almost since 2010, some of the camels were not able to maintain, and this has not been the case in Catalonia, but the thirteen Catalan camels have maintained, despite this situation, that they have not gone, let us say, face to face, right? There have been some comments: if they are to be recast, if we are to go and look for other formulas that can absorb, merge..., various comments around the territory and throughout the territory, surely according to the casuistics of each of these chambers, without untying them from this territorial proximity, but it must be emphasized that even in a convulsive situation they have been said – if I may, counsel – needs and also representative ones. Where are we now? So we find that with Decree Law 3/2017 of 27 June, urgent measures were adopted to call for elections to the thirteen Catalan Chambers of Commerce. This means moving a total of almost 700,000 businesses – 682,000 exactly – that are believed to be voting electronically; hence the novelty and import of this new electoral contest, together with our two electoral contests at the Spanish level and also the municipal ones. Therefore, May 8th will be produced in case of face vote – also in electronic form – but between May 2nd and May 7th in case of remote electronic vote. The incorporation in these elections of the electronic vote offers – we have to say – many advantages. For a band, involve companies in the appointment of their representatives; a normalization and clarification of what this hundred must be like in order to be able to vote; I believe that a greater transparency – it must help us to do this; apart from, we know that there were some problems with the challenge of voting by running to the last electoral counts. But also, as is obvious, as all the novelty, it certainly provokes controversy, given that there are certain suspicions that this can guarantee the maximum control of the process, a situation that is obviously not desired by the chambers and obviously also is not desired by the department, which somehow protects all this process. In any case, Counselor, I want to tell you that I am convinced that these elections must be an opportunity. In any case, when there is a certain crisis or change, we have to generate..., I think we have to be..., and in Catalonia we are very skilled to generate new opportunities. It is up to us to put into value the work done both for the governing bodies and the technical of the chambers as for the department, counsel, which you represent, and I think that we have to say. Without a doubt, there is a new, full-of-opportunity scene that I think we need to find fit with all these new formulas that provide us with this change that we have right now in front of us. Therefore, I think, she advises, that her department is the key to taking action and her grasp of where the task is to be directed so that these corporations can find the best model that we, all folds, can come to decide according to what they say of different stems, also territorial, and see how their future is projected. For some of the rooms they are also a country structure or a state structure, tell us how they are. I think it's time to get all the folds involved, from all the political groups as well, to get that model that we think is the chosen one, to find the best formula to promote the constant development of one of the treasures of our Catalan society, which is the business structure. Therefore, I think it is important that we have this opportunity to talk about it and to guide this future, which also goes through the Catalan trade chambers. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.29.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To answer the question has the word the counselor, Mrs. Maria Àngels Chacón. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.30.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Member. MPs, MPs, actually – I just made it the MP – the Chambers of Commerce have played a role in the dynamism of the fabric produced in Catalonia, and I think it is a role that should be recognised, for example, in the field of international trade. In fact, the incoterms used in international trade are created for the International Chamber of Commerce, and also documentation as basic and essential for export as the certificates of origin are created for the Chambers of Commerce. We find ourselves in a situation where there were dues to be made. There were dues to be made because, obviously – it was also remembered – the last comedians there were at the level of camels were the year 2010. If we pose in the legal framework – it has also been done –, December 2010 eliminates the camera appeal; this does not only change the financing system of the chambers, but also re-establishes all its functionality. At the Catalan level, therefore, at the standard level there are two laws: the Law 14/2002, the Law of official chambers of commerce, industry and navigation of Catalonia, and also the Law 5/2017, of tax measures. And at the state level, therefore, we have Law 4/2014, which also regulates them. Of course: it was necessary, the call for elections, and we have committed ourselves – already at the end of July 2018, so we committed ourselves to celebrating these elections. Why? Because we need a modernization of the institution. A few recent election girls nine years ago clearly indicate that they are more than ever in favour of this electoral process. I also need to look for a better functionality of the trading chambers. Overtaken..., or in the lives of overcoming the economic crisis, the economic model is transforming – we have not spoken many times – with digitization 4.0; the needs of changing businesses, functionality, the services that are to be offered by changing trade camres and will have to be changed. Also, obviously, integrating these possibilities that offer the new technologies, they give nine coordinates, nine coordinates that are to be used and that we have to take into account in the organizational framework of the chambers of commerce and elections. Therefore, it will be necessary to apply these new technologies to the electoral process. To clarify a little..., nothing, four dice on which will be the composition of the plenums. The Catalan House of Chambers, on 14/2002, which before it was mentioned, establishes that there are three types of vowels: the elected to vote among all the voters of the Chambers – 298 vowels, will be chosen –, the proposed for business organizations – forty-seven – and the representatives of enterprises of greater voluntary contribution – noranta-dos. We're applying this law – then I'll talk about it. It is obvious that, at the end of the composition of the plenary, one time the plenary is constituted out of this electoral process, it will be necessary to address another issue pending, which is the new law of chambers. This is where we also want, through consensus, after talking to all the plenary and with the representatives of the chambers, which we will define the functionality and financing of the chambers of commerce. Thus, therefore, in the set of thirteen chambers 437 vowels are designed to cover on the part of the plenums. In the resolution of the secretary general of this department, 7th generation of 2018, the call for elections was initiated, which, as has also been made reference, including two types of vote: the electronic vote..., remote vote – this vote will be from May 2nd to May 7th – and the face vote, which is also electronic, but in this case – and I will explain it now – will not be necessary to present a digital certificate – and this will be May 8th. The business organisations between April and June 2019 will designate their representatives, and the major companies, between April and May 2019. There are therefore thirteen electoral processes. And the novelty is, in this electoral process, the electronic vote. This electronic vote awakens some reticences– it is obvious, I can hear them–, but if we compare..., if we take into account some of the data from the last elections at the level of chambers we can give, to all those who considered the vote by mail so and so sure..., that, of nine thousand votes that there were– two thousand faces and seven thousand by mail–, two judicial sentences invalidate five thousand votes. Therefore, there is no guarantee that the vote by mail will be free of any suspicion of irregularity. We understand, as I said, that in the context in which the electronic vote is held, it offers sufficient guarantees. One of the other reticences is how we adapt this process to the compliment of the ministerial order published for the Spanish Government, and in this sense, in order to reassure those who are in doubt, we are in continuous dialogue with the ministry, and also through its secretary, so we report to ensure that it is well and well settled that we comply with the regulations established. In this sense, I will interview myself, too... I've had occasion two days ago, before yesterday, to talk to the minister, and by this week we'll be talking, too, in this sense, because we want to complete the law, yes, but above all we want to have greater representation and we want to democratize the process of electing the camels. To do so, the General Council of Cambras has contracted the electronic voting platform to the company Scytl, and the Enterprise Department has contracted an electronic voting audit with the company ACTIC. Therefore, we want to guarantee, through collaboration with the Cesicat, the Information Security Centre of Catalonia, that the regulations are complete, as I said, but above all that these elections are secure. The digital certificate means that it offers us sufficient guarantees. Another different aspect is what use this digital certificate makes each of the companies. To give an example, the digital certificate will allow a vote: if this certificate is given to someone who has powers on the part of the company, then this person will be able to vote; if it is later to re-vote, it will not be possible. Therefore, a digital certificate, a vote. At the same time it will also be detected when there are a large number of votes from a single terminal, in the sense of quickly detecting these possible frauds. Therefore, the digital certificate offers guarantees, the ministerial order speaks of a robust procedure and we believe that the digital certificate is robust, and we also understand that it still has to help to have a greater representation of Catalan chambers. We define ourselves as promoters of an innovative business fabric, of circular economy, open to the world, sustainable – I must have felt it many times – and it would be totally inconsistent that in an electoral process like that of the trade camres we do not precisely integrate these new technologies into its functioning. Therefore, desiring, waiting..., on the part of this department, offering all the guarantees in these elections– will be transparent, sure, respecting the 100_per_cent legality–, the following compromise that we will face, once the plenary has been constituted, will be to approach the drafting of the next law of camels. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into urbanisations and slums with urban deficiencies]] [[302-00087/12]] The next item on the agenda is the split, and it is the motion following the question to the Government on urbanisations and urban-deficit barrels presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Progress Units. To defend her, Mr. Jordi Terrades has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.32.0	Councillor, Councillor, Members, Members... what is the meaning of this motion that the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units are presenting to us? So we simply want to promote an urbanism, a housing policy, to the service of cohesion, to the service of equity and the fight against climate change. Yeah, climate change, too, I want to talk to this young man. Because the policies of mitigation and adaptation, as I said in the question I asked the counselor, from our point of view do not go through great proclamations, but through decided and concrete actions. And the residential sector is also one of the major greenhouse gas emitters. That's what the Climate Change Law says in its article 27. It is a law that in this part of all effects is in force, and that identifies the rehabilitation of habitats in a sense of energetic rehabilitation as one of the strategic objectives of the Climate Change Law and the fight and mitigation policies against this phenomenon that we have to manage. And the law says more, the law says we should act on about fifty thousand habitations in the year. We have barrels with buildings built more than forty, fifty years ago, which are inefficient. The government has exclusive competence, and from our point of view, it must set aside a genuine policy of energy rehabilitation of habitats. From our point of view, citizens and citizens do not have enough to open lines of credit through the Catalan Institute of Finance; we have to culminate this instrument with grants for some of these actions. I mean, ever since our visit, I can turn the Barley on in a different way, right? You know that the Barley at the time was used to act on problematic surroundings in our cities, acting on the conjunction; now we have to start acting on each of the habitats we have in the urban surroundings of our cities. And I take one more opportunity to appeal to the parliamentary groups that we should be able to open talks between ourselves – the government could also push them – to end..., "to end not, to form the committee of experts on climate change, which is the cornerstone of this law. The Councillor reminded us of this in his reply to me a week ago: in Catalonia we have more than seven hundred urbanisations still, at these times, with urbanistic deficiencies, urbanisations that are anomalies of a time past. Each of them, with different complexities. I have spoken with many mayors, with many mayors, with many governors and governors, to prepare that inquiry, and each one of them explained different things to me from each of these towns. They are urbanisations that have been converted into first residences, dwellings where there are people– men, women, younger people, older people– seven days a week, 365 days a year. And we have urbanisations that still don't get legal, and they can't give licenses, either; it's a fish that moves the which. We have proposed it to the councillor..., and I think we have also reached this point – I hope, in the vote – in a shared agreement, in the sense that the new law of territories has to collect a new legal rule that, without increasing density, built meters, etc., acts so as to enable it to be complacent, but that we do not require all the things we would ask for in a new urbanization, because the objective is to make these spaces viable that are already urbanized and that the owners can cope with the costs of urbanization. This new law of territories should also collect these fears. And at the same time we propose, for those who want to move forward, also for local administrations who want to move forward, reopen lines of help and subsidies in this sense. And with the new seconds left... man, that's not what you're saying, young lady, but I think we can also take advantage of this period so that we can seriously declassify urbanizable land in some of these environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to defend the papers presented, has the word, first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the deputy Mr Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.34.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, allow me to begin this intervention thanking Mr Terrades for facilitating it to reach the agreements in this young man, a young man we share and to whom, let us say, we have presented some ideas, which, in any case, we will proceed to explain later. The issue of urban settlements in this country is a matter of great concern. Let's face it, we have tried to reshape a situation that was provoked in the sixties and seventies with the exclusion at the territorial level of an urban development that was disheartened, that provoked a picture that we don't like people, that are some territorial taques that have gone against, let's say, a growth that allows a reasonable growth and respect with the urban and landscape dimension. This unrestrained growth, this excessive growth, with the passage of time, has also caused us a social concern, from this point of view, as many of these constructions ended up converting to first residence, with difficulty, from this point of view, to order. As the Councillor explained last week at his intervention, in this country there are 1,430 settlements, seven hundred of which have been received for the assemblies and seven hundred_thirty which have not yet been received. More than a million people live in these urban settlements, which indicates the size and social concern of the matter. In this context, various governments – the previous governments, too –, from the principles of autonomy, tried to focus on these elements, especially on issues of urban discipline, and more then other governments, from 2009 onwards, started an element of planning of the country, an attempt that all the assemblies have an urban planning and a regulation of the different territorial and sectoral plans that existed in the country. A laborious collaboration between the Administration of the Generality and the gatherings that has entailed a protection of the territory before these great growths. These objectives are those pursued by Law 3/2009, of regularization and of better urbanisation with urban deficiencies, in a twofold way: the first window, let us say, to search for and facilitate instruments, especially economic ones, for the joints and people living in these urbanisations, and, for another band, proceed to the declassification of the soil in order to avoid perpetuating this model. This model, which was the drawing of the 2009 law, is what followed. It is certain that the law has had little impact on its application, and certainly, a principle of the economic crisis, and then, for the sake of addressing these projects, the solution of these projects, implied a great deal of these situations and, therefore, it is difficult, surely, its solution. That's not why we have to stop trying. The problem persists in some of the ambits. We understand that the will of the current Government of the Generality is in the same line as it was in these actions of the previous governments. First, it remains very clear on the board of unsustainable soils, with the will to declassify only, to avoid these excessive growths in the territorial area; therefore, that is what is being done. And then, from another band – and we have already been able to prove this to the preliminary draft of the Law of Territories – there is a claim to modify what is the urbanist standards of these urbanizations basically to facilitate the possibility, let's say, of the completion of urbanizing activity in these areas. It is obvious that the urban realities of these scattered onlys are different from what must be a consolidated urban only. And, therefore, from this point of view, it seems to us that it is necessary to adapt to each of the situations and to each of the measures that may be applied. Therefore, from this point of view, the first point of the motion, in which it is claimed that the Law of Territories backs these urbanist standards, we see in place, we will give support. There is also a slogan from the Ciutadans Group, to which also... we can support the text with the slogan attached, and therefore from this point of view, it would not generate any controversy. For what he does in the second place, we did present a point as the motion for a motion established a very clear temporal term. We believe, as Mr. Terrades knows, that he still needs his time. He said that from 1 July a grant call is swallowed; it is impossible, there is a material impossibility to arrive here. We do not have the resources available at these times either, but in any case, there is the will, and therefore we have done this transaction, and we thank Mr Terrades for having accepted it, in the sense of proceeding, let us say, to reopen these calls for grants at an indefinite time, but with the will that is done before the approval of the Law of Territories. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.35.0	Thank you, Mr. Bloods. Next, also to defend the papers presented, is the turn of MP Gemma Geis, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.36.0	Well, good morning. MPs, MPs, we're here debating this motion about urbanisations and slums with urban deficiencies. As Congressman Sanglas has said, we've come to some agreements, haven't we? , and to a transaction also with the Citizens' Group. But, in this sense, as Congressman Font would say, I believe that this young man must be placed in a context, in the context of these urbanisations, as, for example, the syndic of Greuges, which was generated in the sixties and seventies, stood out a long time ago. At present we are working on this preliminary draft of the Law of Territories. We also vote in favour, therefore, that the new Territorial Law establishes a differentiated legal regime, with some of us as standard in relation to these urbanisations with urban deficiencies. And here, therefore, I'm referring a little bit to this context, Congressman Terrades..., yesterday I was rereading a publication by Oriol Nello that published the Diputation of Barcelona in 2010, with the title Strategies towards the city of low density: from content to management; I think it's a reference, let's say, that no one will be able to discuss us. And Nel·lo, in this 2010 publication, ensured, in relation to the 2009 law, that it allows us to put in this context the difficulty of finalizing with this model, right? , of these urbanisations with urban handicaps..., said that law was a law that implied an interesting novelty because it had given place to innovative, relevant initiatives, both for what made knowledge and management of the subject. And concloia – I say this because we can always be critical of it, but the size, let's say, of this urban wall is great – this article affirming that "it's also, it's just the beginning of a task that will have to take care of more than a generation. Therefore, we have agreed with the Socialist Party and Citizens because this urban issue, this deficiency of these cities, is falling and will surely last more than a generation. And this law of 2009 developed and was innovative and had some very good ends, but surely with the pre-project of the Law of Territories it must continue to advance. And, therefore, I thought that today was also appropriate, this reflection that made us believe in Nel·lo in this 2010 publication. As Councillor Calvet said the other day – and Congressman Sanglas also commented – we currently have 1,430 settlements, among which seven hundred have been received for the meetings and, effectively, seven hundred_ thirty are not yet regular. And, actually, it's a model that we don't like. It is a model that affects, as you said, Mr Terrades, the climate change, because the interplay between urbanism and climate change, therefore, since 2001, with the European Union's Plan and Programme Directive, is an evidence, and therefore has an effect on the climate change, and therefore we need to act on it. And we believe that, as you propose to reopen these calls for help..., not in the Marque of the Law of Territories, but to compromise that, when there is a presumption, then we will vote for it. Here, also remember that you also ask to reopen calls with the Barley. We're in favour of it, too. It is a policy of rehabilitating habitats and recycling, as you said you spent the Villa Rose in a seminar in Girona in the college of architects, in the mark of territorial balance and in the mark of approved moratoria. And they also refer to this positive aspect, which we will vote on, which is to reopen these calls, so remember..., that we already know that for you the government does not govern, but remember that recently it has approved 100_million euros to finance investments in rehabilitation, energy efficiency and accessibility that make the communities of owners, together with the Catalan Institute of Finance and the Habitats Agency, in terms of fifteen years. Therefore, it is a policy that goes on the line that we, therefore, defend. Therefore, we will vote in favour of this motion, to reopen these calls, to continue working on this legal rule in the Law of Territories, because effectively this model of territories of the sixties and seventies does not please us, and, as Oriol Nel·lo said, it takes more than a generation to address it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.37.0	Thank you, Mrs. Geis. Next is the return of Congressman Héctor Amello, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.38.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about solutions for thousands of people living in urban areas with urban deficits and pending regularisation. We are talking about about about two hundred and a thousand families – they have heard well, two hundred and a thousand families – who live in low-density urbanizations that show urban deficits: deficits in paving, water supply, lack of lighting, no sanitation infrastructure, poor sewering, and so an endless number of serious problems that accumulate for thousands of families. Moreover, in some of these cases these urbanizations do not have the municipal supply of water, electricity or sewage. These are problems that have never been solved either by the present Government or by previous Governments. There are hundreds of citizens who live with serious deficiencies in urbanizations that have gone from being second residence to first residence. A situation that has been aggravated and evidenced in the structural problems and deficiencies that accumulate these urbanizations. The 2009 Law on regularization and improvement of urbanisations with urban deficits, with their successes and also with their mistakes, was a first attempt to put order and try to address the problem of urbanisations, but that at the end of the day has been left in water of drunkards. Thirty years it took a government to take a first step; thirty years for a first step that was frustrated not only by the arrival of a serious crisis – which the Socialist Party with so much effort denied – but also by the arrival of the separatist parties, so this law was frustrated. The separatist parties have not only left to zero since 2010 the call for aid lines and subsidies to address the problems and deficits of these urbanizations, but also the priority of their political agenda is not to solve the real problems of the citizens. Between fragmenting society, dividing Catalans, opening embassies and political chiringuitos to place their friends, violating the rights of MPs and all Catalans, giving coups d'état or jumping to the Constitution, because, of course, they have not found time during the last nine years to address this serious and complex problem that we have, which I remind you that affects, as I said, thousands of families. Look, I know that you separatist parties declare our Constitution as anti-democratic and anti-social. Do you know what our Constitution says? Well, look, in article 47 it says: "All Spaniards have the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing. The public authorities shall promote the necessary conditions and lay down the relevant rules to give effect to this right. Look, precisely this Constitution, which you call anti-democratic and anti-social, protects the rights of those thousands of citizens, of those thousands of families to which you therefore pay minimal attention. And I ask you: will you now comply with the Constitution? I would now like to address those citizens who live in urban areas with urban deficits and which are still to be regularised, who are the result of these processes which occurred in the 1960s, 1970s and early 1980s, and which have been forgotten by the Administration, which has not been able to put solutions. I address these citizens, whether they be from Macanet, Tordera, Esparraguera, Garraf, Bosc d'en Vilaró or any other point in Catalonia, and I want to say that they know that we will be at their side looking to solve the complex problem of urban deficits. Finally, I cannot finish without mentioning Law 2/2004, on the improvement of neighborhoods, urban areas and villas that require special attention. Many cities with neighbourhoods require comprehensive urban regeneration plans to overcome urban regression problems and major economic and social deficits. With the budget allocation to address the urban downturn, the social emergency and economic development of these neighbourhoods has gone exactly the same as with the budget to address the problems and deficits of urbanizations: since 2010 the items that the separatist parties have put in place to solve these problems have been reduced to zero. For the Neighbourhood Act, zero_euros; to address the problems and deficits of urbanizations, zero_euros. Where does the money go? What is your priority? Well, waste and waste the money of all Catalans in dividing us, in chiringuitos, in keeping friends and creating Pretorian guards. For the process, separatist parties find the money they need, all the money they need. To help neighbours living in slums in a situation of regression, who need to improve their facades, put up elevators, improve the urban environment, promote social measures, in short, to help citizens to improve the urban, economic and social situation of their neighbourhoods or their urbanizations, separatist parties find neither time nor money. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.39.0	Thank you, Mr. Amello. Then, to fix his position, the deputy David Cid, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.40.0	Yeah. If I may, I will begin by saying that it seems to me that Ciutadans claims in this case the article of the Spanish Constitution which demands a decent habitat for all the citizens of the State, when you vote against all the measures [[the timer riu]] To guarantee a habitat for all people, it is already in favor of the 30_per_cent in this case..., as also the Barcelona Assembly in the new urbanization promotions of private promoters. You already know who they're working with, and as they said one day, didn't Mr. Oliu say? , who needed a « We can right, and they'll invent you to defend in this case the bank, which are the party of the IBEX 35. In any case, I would like to say that I believe that the motion presented by Mr. Terrades is relevant. I think that, in addition, we find ourselves at a crucial moment precisely on urban planning in Catalonia. I think we're in a context where we can reproduce the same mistakes of the past. As I said, we have 1,430 settlements in Catalonia. I believe that we can also combine all that is an urban model that generates very large environmental impacts: at the level of water consumption, mobility, waste management above all – many of these urbanisations do not have direct access to the harpsichord–... And, therefore, I believe that both in the Law of Territories and even in the Pla Urbanistic Board of Non-Sustainable Lands we also have the need to cool down the construction of new urbanisations in Catalonia, for the impact they have on the environment and for what we have seen during all these years of environmental impact that they have had. Obviously, we have to solve what we already have. Because, besides, I think there are two types of urbanisations in Catalonia. It is true that many of these urbanisations... in some cases they are second residents, but many of these urbanisations are the "usual life of many citizens and citizens of Catalonia", and I especially believe that in the crisis situation this has been greatly increased. It is to say, for example, that many people who lived in places in the metropolitan area or even in Barcelona who could not cope, in this case, with the prices of food or who could not pay and who were deprived of their usual living has ended up moving to many urbanisations. I had the opportunity to see it recently, for example, also in Lloret, with a lot of mobility problems to connect with the municipalities. Or even the people of Sant Fost de Campsentelles, who had the concrete proposal to solve problems of mobility in the urban centre, moved us a little while ago. Therefore, I believe that it is essential that the aid and subsidies line be established, because, in addition, these urbanisations..., many of them have sometimes been the result of self-construction processes, with which they have a lot of environmental deficiencies for which they do, in this case, to the same buildings, and more also generate, as I say, a very important impact at the environmental level, and it is also necessary to give it an answer to fight against climate change. And then, I think it's also very important that you raise the motion on behalf of Mr. Terrades, which makes reference, isn't it? , to a species of..., well, in this case, reopen the Barley of the year 2004. I think it was definitely one of the key proposals at your time in the left-wing government. I believe that it was also one of the most controversial decisions and I would also say that it was more unfair that the government of the Lord but, in this case, with the support at its time of the People's Party. And I think it is essential that Catalonia return to having a law of barrels, with a double dimension: obviously, in social terms, I think it is essential, because we continue to have a very large inequality with many barrels of Catalonia, and also for what it does, in this case, to the new challenge that we are constantly facing, that you have to see with the struggle against the climate change. And I think that here the energetic rehabilitation of many of our buildings in our barrels is key to solving the fight against climate change and also phenomena like the poor energy, right? In this case, I also want to point out – and take advantage of it – that before this empty, another huge emptiness that the Generalitat poses – and I think it's incredible that it's not in the table yet, isn't it? , this proposal to recover the Barley, which is not one of its priorities –..., I also want to claim in this case the work that the Barcelona Assembly has done by setting a barry plate at the level of the city of Barcelona. Once more are the assemblies – in this case, the Barcelona Assembly – those that replace this government in failure, this government in environmental failure and social failure, and also in policies of energy rehabilitation and housing policies. In any case, we, from our parliamentary group, will give support to the motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.41.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Nàtalia Sánchez, for the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.42.0	Hello, good morning. The previous Members have placed very well the mark, a problem of urbanisation hidden in the sixties, seventy years, which is more on a very large surface and has a potential of 330,000 habitats. We will support these three points of the SCP motion, although it is hard for us to hear why it is proposed to incorporate this into the Law of Territories, which we say is a law of territories that from today's point of view does not complete the necessary social and political consensuses and, therefore, would require a thorough review of this Law of Territories... so we do not understand why we are not referring to the Law of regularization and better urbanisation with urban deficiencies, which has also been discussed – we have talked about its potential and its virtues, in some way. It was discussed: on the one hand, this law contained expansion in cases where settlements were not yet consolidated, and on the other hand, it had the necessary urban services. Therefore..., "putting a cool – said Deputy Cid – is also important. We do not like this piece, but we support it from an almost symbolic perspective, because it is a real problem for all the questions that have been said and that we will not repeat. There has also been talk of the little impact of this Law of Urbanism. Well, because it doesn't apply, it doesn't implement, it doesn't have a budget. It's not that... it seems to me that I was the Member of the Left who said that the impact I had was given by..., I don't know, supernatural measures... but that I needed a clear determination. Why? To reverse clippings, because if this law doesn't apply, it's because they haven't reversed clippings. Finally, on the point that refers to Law 2/2004, the Barrel Law – which has been discussed – we are totally in agreement, even though a structural approach should be taken to how we recover this law and how we improve it from an indispensable perspective. As Manel Delgado says, the morphology and design of a city do not automatically determine the social activity that will last, but they do condition it significantly. And, therefore, this is our layout. I'm done. Mr. Amelló, many thanks for noting the weakness of the Spanish Constitution as a tool to guarantee rights. In which we carry from Ple, four denunciations; sixty denunciations diaris. Absolute failure of the Spanish Constitution to guarantee the right to the ground and so many other rights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the return of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Group of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.44.0	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillor, councillor, last part of the last intervention of the CUP spokesman, because, until the end, I would have subscribed almost everything; the end no longer the subscription, right? But... [[Rialles.]] Nor do we understand that the Law of the Territory can be the solution, when we have a specific law to address the problem of barrels, right? In any case, we'll also give you support. But let me point out an element, let's say, new – it did not come out in the inquiry, nor did it come out today in the debate –: the assemblies play an extraordinarily important role – I think that the Catalonian Group has made reference to it in Comú Pode – because they are the ones that have to make tractors to enable all these urbanizations to be able to eventually the reforms necessary to legalize themselves. And, certainly, the assemblies have little incentive to do so, because at present, under the argument that they are urbanizations that are not in a perfectly legal situation, and therefore they do not have all the services, the assemblies do not lend all the services, but in change they do charge taxes. Therefore, there is one element that would surely prevent the assemblies from fessing the paper that touches them, which would be tractors. According to the element I want to put on the wall of the table: yes, the Barley was no longer equipped at a certain time, the years 2011, 2012, etc., but we have always said, from our parliamentary group, that we understood that it was essential – already a few years ago we mentioned it – and that, while being one of the laws of the tripartite, it was a good law and fulfilled a certain function. And, therefore, it was and is essential to get it back. And, to finish our position in relation to this young man, as was said repeatedly – the councillor said, "To end our position in relation to this young man," said the spokesman for Junts for Catalonia, "so, publishing this new line of help for the rehabilitation of communities of owners,"..., to tell them that, man, it takes something more than a press release; as a minimum, it takes a call, already from the Catalan Institute of Finance, already from the Habitatage Agency." Now there is no summons; the only one with this line of help is a press release, and so things are not settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.45.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy proposing the motion, Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.46.0	Thank you, President. It seems to me that the spokespersons who have spoken have already announced that we have reached various acceptance agreements from some point of view, in concrete terms, at point 1; and then we have traded, together for Catalonia and the Republican Left, the second point of this motion, and also with Citizens, on the basis of our proposal and its theme, the third point. It is true that Mr Oriol Nelo said that in order to solve the problem of urbanisations with urban deficiencies, we would probably need more than one generation. Now, at the rate that we are moving forward in this Parliament and in the same Government, if the opposition does not place the focus on certain problems, we do not pull forward. Because, look, there was an urban legend, wasn't there? I said that elections and administrations were coming, they were doing things. Now we have found another thing, that is: the opposition announces an inquiry on any subject, and the Tuesday following the Executive Board either makes a proposal or makes a press release to say that it will do such or such other thing. We made this inquiry and this motion just to put a problem in focus that we have that can't last many generations. We have to solve this already, because people are living there – because they have become first residents – and because we have to re-activate the Climate Change Law, and the residential sector is one of the sectors where they generate more gases of winter-life effect. Let's hope that with this young man the government didn't just make press notes, but that I started to throw out summons decrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.47.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. We shall proceed to the vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Vagina occupying her escons.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.48.0	All right, then. Let's start the vote. The vote begins. The motion following the Government's inquiry into urbanisations and slums with urban deficiencies was unanimously approved, i.e. 125 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the struggle against unemployment and job insecurity]] [[302-00088/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the fight against unemployment and job insecurity, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose it has the word of Congressman Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.49.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies and deputies, councillor, councillor. Last week we put on the table the situation of the labour market in Catalonia and the government's shortcomings and shortcomings in the field of work. As you well know, insecurity and unemployment continue to occupy the first places of concern in the CEO this past month, and before this situation and this problem that we live in Catalonia the Government is showing inoperative, unwilling or responsive, shielded from the "all of Madrid's fault", without assuming specific skills that many times are claimed. So today we're carrying a young man that's a show they could do. In some cases it's a show of what they should do, by law, and they don't. An exhibition of some of the most important problems affecting the workers of this country, and where the government has not acted for many years. A very simple motion: a retreat of incompliments that he wants to go beyond the complaint to put solutions on the table. Some as simple as completing the law; some as simple as agreeing between you; some as innovative as developing approved proposals three years ago. Given the situation faced by the fellows and fellows of our country, in many cases exploited over a simple T-10, we ask that the Government set aside a working group to set up a Catalan framework of quality of practice, a measure approved four years ago – four years – for this Parliament and ignored to date. Four years ago, the National Youth Council of Catalonia, together with the spokespersons of the Youth Commission, agreed on a follow-up of principles that should mark the link between fellows and companies, as well as the link between fellows and educational entities. Now we wait, if the measure prospers, we don't have to wait four years longer because the government is able to work in defense of the rights of the most vulnerable collectivities. Secondly, we ask the government to comply with the FP Law. And why is this parliamentary group obliged to ask the government to comply with a law, to ask for an obvious how to comply with the law? So why is it that you make the compromise that you made, that you're putting a real, ambitious, accreditation and professional qualification into the market? I, to do so, believe that the government devotes resources to it, and propitious resources. Since 2010, the resources allocated to the SOC have been spread out in a very alarming way, which has affected the seedlings and their ability to act, to the point that we have had rates of technicians for unemployed..., in the major moment of crisis, one technician per thousand unemployed – one technician per thousand. Do you think it's assumed that there's this ratio to make a personalized attention to the ups and downs? It's impossible. It is important to take advantage of the fact that we have a government of the State that is concerned about this issue and that devotes resources to it and that there is a decrease in the number of working people to try to put the occupation service at the level it deserves. In parallel, we want the SOC to be connected to the territory and adapt its actions to the reality that is found at every point in the country. That's why we're calling for the deployment of the territorial network, just like the law passed in 2015. As you see from the different proposals, it seems that 2015 was the last year operating on labor issues; then, the world stopped, the government stopped ruling on labor issues. And, lastly, a theme for which it has already been worth making this motion, a controversial theme that has been discussed a lot in this plenary and in the later plenary: it is the inn on the way to the Centre for Vocational Training in Automotive. Between the question of the last week and the motion of this week there has been what we can call a "miracle motion," it is to say that the government, with the simple announcement that we will make a motion on the subject, is set to work. And we celebrate, we celebrate this final expression to try to solve the theme of the FP center. It is an issue that is a disgrace like the country and that requires an urgent solution, after more than five years of inaction. We have to say, therefore, that the principle of what has been achieved by management leaves many doubts to us: it has been decided to set up a public centre with private hands management, we do not know any details of the tender and we do not know if there is a strategic plan to know what they want to do with the centre. In short, a rush and rush that seems not to guarantee, however, its inn in march for the next course. All the way we're presenting this young man, to boost the government's action on issues that have years to go. We present it because the government has not done its job. In conclusion, we present it in order not to resign ourselves to inopportunity, not to let time pass while people wait for our solutions. And a lot of people carry a lot of time waiting for solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.50.0	Thank you, Mr. Gibert. Next, to defend the papers presented, it is the turn of the deputy Yolanda López, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.51.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good morning, all of you. The other day, MP Pol Gibert referred to the bad policies and the disgovernment of Catalonia as a key factor in the worsening of job insecurity and the increase in unemployment, which we fully share. The only thing he's getting is to make Catalonia poorer and less social. We're all clear about that. However, we would like to go a little further than Mr Pol Gibert, because we notice that there are things left in the tinker and that are important to highlight. The whole of Spain, and in it Catalonia, has suffered the serious consequences of the neoliberal agenda, deregulation of the labour market, loss of strength of the workers, being the PSOE one of the great taxpayers, because let us not forget that it was the PSOE of Felipe González who in the eighty bets for deindustrialization or who in the ninety approved the labor reform in which the figure of the TTEs was legalized, and who created the contract scholarship. It was the PSOE of Zapatero who continued with the real estate bubble created by Mr Aznar, or those who invented the famous Plan E. It was also the PSOE of Zapatero who in 2011 carried out one of the two most profound labor reforms in Spain, a reform that, how not? , the PP worsened further in 2012. And, by the way, both with the support of CiU. Reforms that have been a great machine for the destruction of social and labour rights throughout Spain, including Catalonia. After more than five years of economic growth and a bad so-called recovery, the situation on the labour market has even greater problems: unemployment, low wages, underemployment, temporaryity and high turnover in jobs. The employment created in recent years has been essentially precarious, as stated in the latest SEPE report of 2018. On the other hand, the number of workers living below the poverty line continues to rise: having a job no longer guarantees not being poor. The latest OECD employment report points out that Spain is the second country with the highest level of poverty in the working-age segment of the population, mainly due to the decline in real wages and the creation of low-quality jobs. In the face of the failure of this model of deregulation, precariousness and low labour costs caused by the terrible actions carried out by the PSOE and PP governments, what has the Socialist Party of Pedro Sánchez done during this government to reverse this situation? Absolutely nothing. And when you have made courageous and social policies, such as the rise of the minimum wage to nine hundred euros, you have done so thanks to the determination of the Union We Can. And it's that, gentlemen of the PSC-PSOE, you when you're in the opposition fill the mouth with promises that then, when you're in the government, you don't keep. That's why when Pedro Sánchez promised to repeal the liberal reform... and look, we're still in it. What we said, much to say and little to do. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSC-PSOE, you have always been in favour of Spain without a productive model and in the face of the last bubble. Spain and Catalonia need governments that bet on the recovery of the productive fabric and the creation of decent, stable, safe, quality and rights-based work. We need to turn the tide on labour relations and the distribution of times of care and personal enjoyment; we need to curb job insecurity, which does not lead to the end of the month or to planning for a future or achieving decent pensions; we need to make temporary contracts exceptional and that the indefinite will again mean something in terms of stability and possibilities of planning a life; we need to put an end to fraud and unpaid hours, and we need to recover wages and bargaining power. To thank the honourable Member for his willingness to accept two of the three points and the third one's transaction. And of course we will support this motion, although he knows – and we know – that it is only a motion to comply with the law that the Government is not complying with. What really needs to be done is called the repeal of labour reform. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.52.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Carmen de Rivera, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.53.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members of Parliament, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group will approve the motion in its entirety, because it seeks to establish the dignity and adequacy of professional practices, accreditations and professional qualification in addition to other fundamentals, such as the accountability of the SOC and the real adequacy of staffing, in order to achieve, among other measures, an effective tool. In short, this motion is an x-ray of the inactivity and desire of the Government and its predecessors in all matters concerning active employment policies and, of course, the harmful management of the SOC, and also the shame of the marc català de qualitat de les practiques, planned since July 2015 and in which nothing has been done since then. In his duty, in the duty of this Government, the hopes of many young people and Catalan fellows to improve their working conditions during their practice. And as far as accreditations and professional qualifications are concerned... another shame that has to do with the future and the opportunities of many people to find a job or a better one. And let's go to the third point, that of the SOC. This point has been the subject of a compromise, and from here I thank Mr Pol Gibert for his willingness to negotiate. It is no secret that the SOC does not work; it was already recognized by the Lower Councillor when she claimed that the SOC is collapsed. The staff cuts, the increase in applications, must also be added to the management of guaranteed income of citizenship, i.e., collapse per square. The compromise reached following our amendment is aimed at an evaluation of the results of the SOC, but with a deadline: 15 September 2019. And so, through this diagnosis and evaluation, increase once and for all the employability and effectiveness of occupation policies, although we believe that the SOC must be reformed from the top down. And finally, we have our own airport in Castellón, but this one we have in Martorell: the Centre de Formació Professional d'Automoció. This centre has been the subject of continuous discussions between two councils to see who was managing this centre, discussions that ended yesterday with the award of management to the Department of Work, Afers Socials and Families. This intestinal struggle has only served to freeze the use of immense educational resources that has harmed workers and companies in the sector, preventing them from obtaining skilled labour. And this is exclusively the responsibility of this Government: the centre was built, the companies were willing to enter into agreements with the Government, and only their greed has prevented the effective use of these facilities, to such an extent that the sector has been tired of waiting. Last year they already put an ultimatum that has already won and that sets in motion by these companies different alternatives to those of the Government, and that can mean – eye – the loss of the dual FP in this center. Once again, the incompetence of this government can leave us without a European reference centre for qualified vocational training in the automotive sector, a sector that is about to start one of the most important and important technological transformations of the last decades and which can mean a complete change in the industrial paradigm, and which not only multinationals, but hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises that have their competitive advantage in innovation, and you, because of your incompetence, are going to leave out. We have already lost the European Medicines Agency through the process, and now this. How long will they punish Catalonia with its disgovernment? How long? Nothing more. And thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.54.0	Let me remind people in the public that they are not allowed to approve or disapprove of Members' interventions. The words of Deputy Jordi Albert of the Republican Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.55.0	Well, thank you, Vice President. Deputies, deputies, workers and workers of the house..., company Pol Gibert, compensation for accommodations, which goes from forty-five to thirty-three days per year worked. This compensation, moreover, if it is justified that there has been loss, may be of twenty days per year worked; open the door to collect character attachments; the administered silence positive, if the labor authority does not give answer in fifteen days, will be donated as donated, and, therefore, is given the right to the enterprise; the enterprise may unilaterally change the working conditions; introduction of ETTs; reduction of the 5_per_cent absenteeism index to 2.5_per_cent at the time of taking into account the amount of time worked. Do you know what this is, partner Gibert? This is the 2010 PSOE labour reform, which should also be remembered, because it continues to be active, but after the 2012 PP retouched: it was also objective to drop admissions for three consecutive quarters; the 33 days worked per year have a maximum limit of twenty-four years, in place of the forty-two that were established in 2010; it is not a pre-existing administrative authority to initiate ERO procedures; an open door to the acceptance of public sector workers and workers; an agreement of the undertaking that prevails on the basis of the sectoral agreement and that is used by contractors to violate social agreements with the unionists; and an affectation of the performance of the contract. And even more: period of proof of a year without compensation for accompaniment. All this, also to the 2012 labor reform of the PP. July 2014: "The first step the next socialist government will take will be to repeal Rajoy's labor reform. 2015 electoral programme of Les Espanyoles: "The Socialists and the Socialists will immediately repeal all the labour reform of the PP. April 2016: Before a proposal from Podemos' companies, they abstain from the Congress of Deputies in order not to repeal the 2010 and 2012 labor reforms. "Derogation of labour reform and adoption of a new workers' statute, this is what they said in their 2016 Spanish election program; we are still waiting. You want to demand a lot from this government, but you don't do the dues that you could have done in the Madrid government. And now you, with this letter of introduction, do not want to accept a message that precisely this parliamentary group proposes to put all the points on the iss. What you're doing is playing the game where the ball is from, and as one song says that my daughter is often escorted, "When are you going to decide –"when are you going to decide – to repeal labor reform. But it's not just that. Also..., and here it is true that not all responsibility is his, but the law bites..., we know that there are many unionists who are precisely charged for this law and that it has involved 270_million euros of revenue, and that unfortunately – it is true – the completion of this legislature has caused the work to end. And I'll still tell him more. Listen'm: Presidency; Education; Work, Social Affairs and Families; Enterprise and Knowledge..., all these areas of government must be agreed. So we filed an inquiry and we have this young man, because he has accelerated it so fast that this Tuesday, with a government decree, has already unlocked everything. Out, because we came from 2009. Lucky you're here to fix everything... In fact, we are so grateful, as are the parliamentary groups, that I can only dedicate a strong smile to it and ask it, if you please, that this thanks the sharing with the Sanchez company in Madrid, to see if at once for all repeals these labor reforms that delimit the action of this government. And I insist: 341_million euros – I finish – that goes to the Government Sánchez, in that assumption that it was not approved, to employment policies, 444_million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.56.0	You're out of here, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.57.0	...that the Government of Catalonia has allocated in this presupposition of 2019 that still has not acted..., to policies of occupation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.58.0	Ahabi, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.59.0	...a lot more than the one around him to the Socialist Party. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.60.0	Next, also to defend the papers presented, is the return of deputy Ferran Roquer, of the Group of Joints for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.61.0	Well, Vice President, thank you. Counselor, counselor, MPs, MPs, public and people who are watching us from home or from class through streaming or internet after... Well, I, Mr. Gilbert, will make an intervention a little more than your young lady. Catalonia has 395,000 people on the list of the news; 15,700 less than the March of the year passed and 0.2 less than the month of this year's fever. Even a given more positive than these is that there are a 2.8_per_cent more people who are affiliates than in the same period of the past year; so there are affiliates 3,400,000 people, roughly. In fact, since 2013 the recorded atrium has sunned a maximum of 665,000 people, it has taken seventy-six_months per year to reduce the recorded atrium. These data are good, but we don't have to lose sight of the fact that the number of matures..., there are many, and some other things that affect the contract, such as now that there are 31.6_per_cent more women registered in the register than men; that this act, which has fallen in annual terms, has dropped 5.4 in the case of men and 2.6 only in the case of women; that the youth's course is higher than that of the middle class, or that 84_per_cent of the contracts that have been signed are temporary. In the period from 2006 to 2014, the productivity of the labor factor has increased by 14_per_cent. He's got a 14_per_cent higher than he's downloaded more than the billing. Therefore, in the field of training, Mr. Gibert, we have work, we have a lot of work to do to increase this productivity. And this productivity, which contributes to the competitiveness of the economy, which the Catalan economy has proved to be competitive – has gone by increasing exports... –, cannot only be due to a decrease in wages. Therefore, training is essential. This lack of training doesn't just have to see with productivity, it also has to see with maturity. In Catalonia, the average number of people registered in the city registers who have only sunk as much as the primary education is 15_per_cent. There are communities, such as the Alt Empordà, where 35_percent of the people registered in the city's registers have only sunk as much as primary education. And a third of the people who are asking for employment today in Catalonia are unskilled workers, according to the first occupation requested. Therefore, his motion seems to us, in general terms, interesting, given these circumstances. You talk to us about the quality of Catalan universities, their study and their model; we would just miss it, we agree. I told him to increase productivity through training. In this sense, the professional accreditation and qualification of the Law 10/2015 are a valid instrument, and at this time is being defined, explaining this same law, the model of accreditation of competences in the field of the Public Agency of Professional Training and Qualification. You ask for a career guidance for every eighty people at the time; a thousand must be many, but eighty..., recognize me that there are very few, more when it is the State that makes the economic endowment and has the mechanisms for the stability of the guidance. And on repeated occasions at the sectoral conference it has been asked..., at this sectoral conference that they say we have to leave empty, we have been, and we have asked to stabilize the professional advisors. And, as a result, what did the State do? : a program of temporary orientadors. Finally, he talked to us about putting the comprehensive training offer of the Martorell Centre for Vocational Training into service. His inquiry was important, no doubt, and the government took it into consideration, but I don't think you take it as much into consideration as you did the Tuesday before you passed through the technical board to approve it. In any case, yes, the government of March approved the creation of Martorell's vocational training centre, integral training. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , just position me: we [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.62.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, to fix his position, the deputy Vidal Aragonés, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.63.0	We have to say that this would be – and is – a very good young man if you only spoke of professional accreditation, professional training and professional qualification. She's a good young lady, about that concrete. We have to say and we have to explain, and we want to explain, why we will vote, in a general way, positively, but there are three questions about which we will abstain. The first is the one relative to point 4 of the motion. If you see point 4 of the motion, on the territorial deployment... we... it's not that we are against the territorial deployment, we are absolutely in favour; what we are against is the concertation model that was built the last few years on this territorial deployment. We also have to say that we do not agree, but neither do we agree, for what it does at the fifth point, that it refers to the realization of the professional training centre of the car. And we're not in favor because they've often heard us defend a one-hundred-per-cent public model, and it's not what we have in this center. But we will not vote against it, because it is also necessary. And about the third point that we will also abstain, which is about dealing with the group of commons..., we understand that there is all the good intention, at this point, but we want to explain why we will not vote in favour. It refers to the need to recover what is now called talent. We are in favour of regaining the talent, which those who are emigrants, emigrants, can return, but we also think that this must be extrapolated to the conjunction of the workers: those who are considered to have talent and those whom society considers to have no talent. We want all the workers who have emigrated to return to our country. And that's why we're abstaining. And lastly, just as we started saying that we thought it was a very good move if we refer to professional qualification and vocational training, so, if we stick with a part of the title that this move has, to fight or try to fight job insecurity, obviously it's not a good move. She's not a good young lady, because this town doesn't have the capacity of a sovereign to establish its labour regulations. But we also want to say to the Socialist Group – other groups have already said this – with all due respect that job insecurity is clearly in good origin in all those groups. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , not reforms, but labor counter-reforms made by the Socialist Party at the length of history: at the end of the eighties, with the extension of the temporary contract; at the present year, by facilitating the modification of working conditions and the implementation of ETTs, and the later years, the year 2010, facilitating the objective approximation and other deregulations of collective bargaining. These have not been the causes. Therefore, not only do they repeal the idea of the labour reform of the PP, but also their counter-work reforms. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.64.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Finally, to fix his position, it is the turn of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.65.0	Thank you, Vice President. From the escó, to position us in relation to this young man. First, I told Mr. Albert that he wasn't so angry with his Socialist Party members, because then they're starting a pine tree. They have already voted for the investiture of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, and I am convinced that if they have the opportunity, they will probably do it again. Mr. Sanchez is also desiring it this way. In relation to the motion, the motion raises questions to improve the employability of people, especially those in a state of emergency; therefore, in all cases we find that they are uncertain measures. There are some measures that should have been put into operation some time ago, and that what this young man wants is to push them. They are measures in relation to training, accreditation and professional qualification, and, therefore, our support. The reinforcement of the public occupation service is also called for. A long time ago – especially when there have been more difficulties with the situation in Catalonia – that the need to rethink the public employment service in Catalonia has been put on the table so that it was as effective as possible, and we continue to think that it is necessary, therefore, a reformulation of this service, to strengthen it. Because, in addition, he has been given new skills, as has already been said, and, therefore, this still helps to make his main task more difficult, which is to improve employability and to try to get the people to find a place for work. And finally, with regard to Martorell's Centre for Vocational Training in Automotive, I think this is the perfect half-way of Catalonia's political situation the last few years: the complete leave of the government, at least until the end of the day. Let's see if the past Tuesday's deal actually serves to unscrew it. But it's this big paradox, isn't it? : in Catalonia there are more than a thousand children's barracks and an empty vocational training centre waiting for the government to decide to give it use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.66.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. In the last place, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.67.0	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, to thank the different groups for their good will..., to some, the good will, not so much, but the will has always followed, especially to the groups of the commons and of Ciutadans, who have had a good collaboration to achieve a motion that comes forward, hopefully, with a good content, right? Tell Congresswoman Lopez that I can hear the nerves of the commons and of Posseus before the enquests. I can hear it perfectly; at some point everyone has suffered, that. But I think they're wrong about the enemy. Faced with the triple date we have before Spain right now, focusing on the left I think it's a mistake, and I'm telling you as I think it is. Obviously, I, unlike you, do hope that the generals will be fine; I sincerely hope so. I think it's good that there's a majority of leftovers to the government and that we can do things that you criticize and that you can't do because there's a subject that's said majorities and sometimes you can't do everything you want. To Mrs. De Rivera, I obviously want to thank her for her good work, because she's been very easy to work with and we've managed very quickly. To Mr. Jordi Albert, of the Republican Group..... I see that the whole of the Republican Group is the same; ask the councillor or ask you, do you answer what you want, let's just say, less what you want, right? But it's no wonder that you spread your hair for a 2010 PSOE job reform and govern quietly with the people who collected the PP's in 2012 ; calmly, without any kind of problem. [[Some applause.]] It's funny they do that – it's funny. And I want to tell you another thing, Mr. Jordi Albert: Do you know how labor reforms are repealed? [[Pause.]] With one thing that's saying majorities. I understand that you in this band don't know very well, the majority, we see it every day in Parliament, but it's something that's simple, in democracy, and it's quiet. And, lastly, I also wanted to say to her: her daughter sings the song of « Pa when, no? So I wanted to say to him: and the premise of his group, "Why when? When will we see him in this Parliament? Because we feel like talking, but we don't know what you're talking about. I would like to thank Mr. Roquer for all – in his case, I do appreciate all – and for the explanation he has made, that I think he has been very correct and that he has been successful, in this young man. And, lastly, to the lords of the CUP and the PP, to thank them also for their collaboration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.68.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. Separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Aragonese and Mr. Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.69.0	Yes, thank you, President. For a separate vote on points 4, 5 and 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.70.0	What is it that they could vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.71.0	Correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.72.0	Thank you. [[Jordi Albert and Knight ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.73.0	Yes, President. To ask for a separate vote on point 3 and 3a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.74.0	What could the two, three and three bis vote together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, separately. Okay. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Therefore, we will vote on point 3, point 3a; point 4, 5 and 7 in one block, and the rest of the motion. Okay? We shall therefore begin the vote. We'll start by voting point three. The vote begins. Point 3 of this motion was approved by 66 votes to 59, with no abstentions. Let's just move on to vote on the three-a-point. The vote begins. Point 3a was approved by 66 votes to 59. We're voting points 4, 5 and 7. The vote begins. Points 4, 5 and 7 were approved by 121 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting the rest of the vote now, so, points 1, 2, and 6, huh? The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved unanimously, 125 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the inquiry into the protection of the civil and political rights of all Catalans]] [[302-00089/12]] We're still on the order of the day. And the next point, the twenty, is the Movement following the question to the Government on the protection of the civil and political rights of all Catalans, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Mrs Esperanza García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.75.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... I see the councilman hasn't had time to come today. A person as neutral as Adam Majó cannot be the director of the Office of Political and Civil Rights in Catalonia, and that is exactly what this young man is raising. Two simple points: a first, which is the immediate termination of this lord as head of this office, which after the information we have learned, goes, from office to office, the office is he, only has a secretary and a press head; and a second point, which is to close this office. We have enough guarantees with the courts, with the special prosecutor of hate, to defend the civil and political rights that are threatened in a Catalonia that has retreated, since the proclamation of that non-Republic of eight years, years. Our democracy is of low quality. And it is of low quality because there is a large part of the Catalan population that cannot express their ideas with freedom and guarantees, as the rest does. And, incidentally, it always coincides with those we're not on the rope, let's say, independenceist. As this is a counter-relationship office, as I have already stated – it is a counter-relationship office – totally governmental, and it is directed by a political commissioner, it must be put in place. Among other things, because its only purpose is to defend its own and to spread that the application of the state of law, in a liberal democracy as we have, modern and advanced, is supposedly a repression. And like it's not, and like liberal democracies aren't over rights or obligations, or over good and evil, or an immune superman before the law, so this office needs to be locked up right away. Last week I gave them examples, clear examples, of how political and civil liberties in Catalonia were violated: from that republic of the eight_seconds or the fact that two thirds of the parties that suffered aggression, or their political representatives, or their own, coincide with constitutionalist parties, passing through the increase of hate crimes to a point of 125_per_cent more than 2017, to the attacks on citizens that took the groga brush from all the streets of Catalonia. That said, the councillor defended the neutral profile of Mr Majo and the office, but in the end neither his director nor the activity deployed, of which we already have information, can justify his existence. Why... is it such a neutral profile, a lord who runs an office and says that hoodlums intimidated and coerced a mayor of the Republican Left, and these, who were his party ex-companies, Arran, when they do it before his Terrassa People's Party, here in Catalonia, go, are they guys who exercise their freedom of expression and protest? Is it such a neutral profile, the one that compares ties to a constitutional symbol like the Spanish flag before a public building? Is it like a party symbol as an official symbol? It's such a neutral profile, when this gentleman calls people who are protesting against legal political parties here in Catalonia – I'm talking about Vox – weeks ago? Mirin, this weekend the platform« Barcelona with the selection has suffered another aggression, and on Tuesday the students of S' has finished! On the UAB campus, they were attacked, assaulted and coerced. And what did the office do? So the office that he did is: criticizing the feelings that nullify the payments of the quotas of the AMI; he picked up and animated those that are manifested against legal political parties; he went on a journey to Madrid, to the Supreme, to gather, of course, the ancient Government of the Generality, and even began a campaign to encourage the vote to foreigner. Is this an office for the defense of political and civil rights? Home, I understand that the counselor costs you... don't you? , because at his youthful age, when he was the leader of the JERC, you made an incredible speech of the hispanophobia. Remember, from there every second, Spain steals 450_euros? I understand that, from his prism, therefore, Mr. Majo is an objective character, but allow me to criticize him for this visit. Listen, you see persecutions in separatist policies and not the espionage of the Mossos that we have suffered all the constitutional opposition in Catalonia. You're making them look like you're doing it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.76.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, and in order to position himself on the issues, Mr Ferran Pedret has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.77.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members and Members, the Subgroup of the People's Party presents this motion, which, let's face it, is concise, has two points, which have already been exposed. We have presented a statement in the second place, to which I shall refer, but we would also like to set out our general position on the assumption that it is raised. We think – and we said it at the time of the office manager's appearance before the corresponding committee – that there is an initial problem, let's say, of redundancy at the time of creating this office. It is not only because the civil and political rights that are intended to defend, to promote their knowledge from the office already count with organizations to defend them – we could cite, for example, the Synod of Greuges, which is our particular ombudsman – but also because both in the ordinary jurisdiction and before the Constitutional Court or, at a later stage, the European Court of Human Rights, therefore, there would be mechanisms more than sufficient to make complaints of possible violations worth it. Moreover, it seems to us that there is an institutional design problem, to put it this way: it is that we think that an office of the characteristics that the Office of Civil and Political Rights wants to wear can hardly do well, especially if it is not dedicated only to the dissemination of those civil and political rights and, let's say, to a certain pedagogical effort to promote them, to make it more present in public policies, but also to denounce them, as is the case..., so it is very difficult that it can do well if it is a government office, directly attached to a department. Because it is true that the public authorities have an obligation to combat any civil and political rights damage in the citizens, but precisely because of their position of power they also have, potentially, the role of violator of these civil and political rights. And, therefore, it seems very difficult to us that, without the necessary autonomy and independence, you can do well with your pocket. That's why we said he's not in the office at the syndic's office, huh? , because we understand that with the functional autonomy of the union, with its dependence on the Parliament and without respect for the Government, that was the most suitable location for a task with which it is proclaimed that it is to be done from the office. Then, obviously, I think there's a problem with the person who's encapsulating this office. We're not people who want to make arguments ad hominem, and I think what I'm going to say is not an argument ad hominem. The truth is that, when it comes to a name made by the government and not having had the occasion, as with other types of girl designations in Parliament, to make a planned hearing, so there was no chance to examine beforehand, let's say, the profile of the proposed person. And two things happen. In the first place, that to the hearing that we did afterward, is to say, this appearance before the committee, I think we found that the profile was not the most adjunct to run an office of these characteristics. With some of the assurances we heard and some of the answers he gave to the opposition group, it seemed clear to us that he was not the most adept person. And then, this could be mitigated by the fact that it was the head of an office with sufficient material and personal resources, which, in some way, could quell the bias that anyone might have around the issues they are calling for. But the truth is it's not like that, or so on, the office is basically its director and a support person. This also leads us to think that the objects proclaimed are hardly clearly sincere. Because if one addresses a population of 7_million_i_mig of people, who are potentially the ones who could see their civil and political rights violated and who could address their complaints and complaints to this office, the fact is that the structure is totally inadequate, if not that what they claim from this office is simply to corroborate the report of the Government and the majority of Parliament on how it is Spain, whether civil and political rights of the independenceists are violated... ; then it is well dimensioned. But if it's for something else, it's clear that it wasn't well-sized, and I think this is where the real political intent of creating this office is revealed. And I think that the PP Subgroup would have done well to assume our duty in respect of redirecting these tasks to the office of the Greuges Syndic, because it seems to us that it is where they would be best located and where it could be done well and without being suspended this task that was allegedly assigned to the Office of Civil and Political Rights.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.78.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.79.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party presents a motion on civil and political rights, and the truth is that sometimes you leave us the jokes too easy, but well... if Pablo Married can get a master's degree without going to class, you can present a motion on civil and political rights without respecting them. [[Greetings.]] There are four strands of plasticin that correspond to four articles of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights to see how you do to draw them. The first, article 17, which enshrines the right to honour and privacy and condemns governments spying on their political opponents as mobsters. I know what is left of the campaign, you who are constitutionalists: « Article 18.2 of the Constitution. The secrecy of communications, and in particular of telegraphic and telephone postcards, is guaranteed, unless a judicial decision is taken. You are the only right to privacy that you have preserved in this country is M. Rajoy's. The list of tax fraudsters and the list of commissioners of his party who ransacked at their own headquarters with night and light..., with the same hand with which they sign civil and political rights motions hide the list of thieves in this country. With the same hand with which they sign civil and political rights motions boast of controlling the Supreme Court Chamber from behind. And with the same hand with which they sign civil and political rights motions they will hand over the list of workers fighting the macho violence in Andalusia to the extreme right for their squad campaigns. You have used the State to protect yourself from justice and to prosecute those who threaten impunity, but sooner or later you will be held accountable in this country. Second, article 19, which enshrines the right to freedom of expression vis-à-vis Governments such as yours, seeking to gag their own country. Complaint made a few months ago by Amnesty International: eighty daily fines; fines to rappers, tweeters, comics, social activists fighting for our rights. A round business: 25_million_euros collected with the law bites, chasing the best of our country, which has allowed them to buy corrupt officials and junk newspapers to make false news against the opposition. That is their conception of civil and political rights. You do not protect democracy from any excess of freedom of expression. You protect yourselves from democracy by attacking those who point out to you in Congress, in Parliament, on Twitter or on the street. Third, Article 25, which enshrines the right to vote of all the citizens to whom you deny it; they deny it with the vote implored to the more than 1_million Spaniards who have expelled for their policies of cuts from this country. And they also deny it to the more than 5 million compatriot migrants who live in our country and who, unlike their friends, work and pay taxes in this country. They probably deny it because, if in this country we could vote all of them, they would clean up Badalona City Hall of racists like Mr Xavier García Albiol. As long as you continue to threaten civil and political rights in this country and as long as you continue to open the door of our institutions to the far right, a civil and political rights office will be needed in Barcelona, Catalonia and Spain. Our bet is clear, we have said it before and we told Mr.Adam Majó in the committee: that it depends on Parliament or that it depends on the Greuges Union. But since they have not accepted that amendment, we will continue to work towards it. And we will continue to work to ensure that this office exists, for a fundamental reason: because the defence of civil and political rights in a situation like the current one has to be an autonomous and independent defence of the Government. It can't be an office of the Government to play election campers; it has to be a democratic ram that defends rights and freedoms in front of parties like theirs, that threaten them and trample them every day. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.80.0	On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the honourable Member Inés Arrimadas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.81.0	Thank you, Mr. President. The process is a story of living and chiringuitos, and today we are going to talk about an infamous chiringuito – of an infamous chiringuito – which is supposedly called Office of Civil Rights i Politics, but which could be called perfectly Office of Defense of the Separatist Government. Who have they appointed as director? Mr. Adam Majó. It's not just that they fingered him, it's that they created the chiringuite to plug that gentleman in. And who is that gentleman? Well, he's such a radical gentleman that he left the CUP because they seemed a little loose to him. [[relays]] It seemed to him that they were not working for Catalonia's independence, that is, to see who we're talking about. He is also a gentleman who has history, of course, a gentleman who belonged to the Movement of Defense of the Earth, which is the political arm of the terrorist group Terra Lliure. In 2010 this radical gentleman presented a book tribute to Època, to the Catalan People's Army, an independent terrorist group of the 1970s. And who was in that presentation? For Mr. Carles Sastre, that terrorist murderer condemned for it, who is like one of the stars of the process; the one who put a bomb on Mr. Bultó, who activated it and blew it up, that murderer, for, with that gentleman seems to have a lot to do with the director of this Office of Civil Rights and Politics. Who are we putting an office with that name in the hands of? Well, of course, of a radical living the process. It's an anti-system of these that's been living for a lot of years but that's very good of the system, huh? This gentleman was a councillor of the CUP, then was a commissioner at the Historical Center of Manresa, until he was created this chiringuito to his measure. And don't think you're charging little: this gentleman is charging ninety_ thousand_euros – ninety_ thousand_euros – they're making you all pay that gentleman ninety_ thousand_euros. The labour costs included can be about 120,000 euros per year, which are like..., I don't know, twenty-two day care places? Then we ask them about the day-care centers and they say Spain steals from us. Stop plugging in radicals and you'll see how you find money. [[Greetings.]] What has this man done since he was in office? Well, then, insult and despise constitutionalism, which is for what it is for. Isn't that why there's money? To plug people who have no hair in their tongue to insult more than half the Catalans. He's a gentleman who says the constitutionalists are facsimile and extreme right. But then it's a little shortsighted, because the fascist attacks on S'ha Finat! At the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona you don't see them, this gentleman; you don't see fascism where there is. [[Greetings.]] A little shortsighted – a little shortsighted. This gentleman obviates the far-right fascist attacks of separatism, the attacks on the seats of the constitutionalist political parties, which, by the way, receive three times more insults and attacks on the seats than the independence parties. But it is that, moreover, this gentleman makes black lists, makes black lists of Catalans that remove yellow ties, those yellow ties that are separatist propaganda, by the way, made of contaminating plastic, now that in Europe it has been approved... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, contaminant plastic. You're filling all the squares... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.82.0	Silence everyone – silence everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.83.0	...the squares, the streets, the schools, the playgrounds. It's a shame, what you're doing. Well, this gentleman, who's paying ninety thousand euros, huh? ...then he talks about repression, the repression that comes into you at the end of the month with the current account, right? ... then, afterward, this gentleman is dedicated to defending them and makes black lists of Catalans who remove yellow ties. I only say one thing to you: pray that Pedro Sánchez will continue in the government, because when we govern we will run out of cabbage, and his chiringuito and many others will be closed to lime and chant so that the money of Catalans will not continue to be wasted. And lastly, since you make black lists of Catalans who remove ties, point me at that black list, because these are some of the ties I have removed, along with my colleagues, in the streets, in the parks and in the public spaces of Catalonia. Aim me and all my comrades. See you later. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.84.0	Keep going. The next speaker is, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the Member of the House of Commons, Natialia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.85.0	It's hard to get over the lines of the joke from here, from the Faristol of the Parliament. [[Greetings and remorse.]] It is also difficult to see the banalization of the rights of speech: the rights of freedom of expression [[the remorse of the voice persists]] The rights of demonstration...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.86.0	Shut up, everybody.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.87.0	...the right to respect my word. It's hard to see that reality. Because, ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, I am convinced, very convinced, that the people, the very many people who have legitimately voted for them because they trust their political project, do not agree with this form of political action – they do not agree. Neither do they agree nor want there to be any lords and companions like Jordi Cuixart and all the other political prisoners in prison. I'm not convinced. And it's very sad to see how they use and denigrate this faristol and this institution. [[Greetings.]] And that's why they ask you, Mrs. Arrimadas, aware that your party claims to be a prosecutor, a judge, and they want to do all the papers in the state apparatus, to withdraw their accusations of assassins and terrorists to independenceist leftists and union leaders. So, I'm asking the president of the Bureau that you don't allow these people to be accused of murderers in this Parliament's lobby. I will have occupied all my time, Mrs. Arrimadas, to respond to your insulting contribution to this institution when we speak of civil and political rights. I recommend it, and I also ask you that you are concerned and dedicated to talking about state terrorism, of which you are accomplices, which will be the best you can do. We won't be participating in this PP game. Companion and deputy Lucas has made an arrangement that we subscribe to cent_per_cent. How can the PP be talking about the rights being violated, when he has all the machinery in his favor to defend, give privileges and denounce the exercise of the rights of speech? We, however, note that this office lacks much work to do, Mr. Pere Aragonès, that it is not investigating fundamental violations such as we have known later, violations that are due to prison terms, with the systems of winging, or many others..., but we will not play the game to the party that they claim is to consolidate the state repression against a people who, dignifiedly, simply did claim their rights...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.88.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.89.0	...and exercise them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.90.0	...time's up. Thank you. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mrs Marta Vilalta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.91.0	Thank you very much, President. After the electoral falca of Mrs. Arrimadas, of this electoral propaganda that has come to do here, to her of the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia..., therefore, they are ridiculous, these actions that you make, this is not an electoral platform..., we, the rest of the parties that we conform to this her, her of popular sovereignty, we are not her tool, and, therefore, they are ridiculous, these actions that make serve as the television platform enmig of an electoral campaign. It's pretty sad and pretty ridiculous. We won't play this. We came here to talk about what this young man should be talking about, which is about the civil and political rights of all Catalans. Allow me, before I begin, to greet the director of the Civil and Political Rights Office, Adam Majó, who is accompanying us today. And it is that, reading this title of this young man, we have thought: "Now we are going well, now we are going well. The People's Party has seen the dangerous situation in which civil and political rights are found and even so, now, it wants to work to ensure these rights and to combat this setback in the violation of the rights we find ourselves in our country. And, therefore, the PP has decided to take a turn in his politics and join in defending civil and political rights, which is where everyone of this chamber should be. But reading the motion, we see that – it's a shame – it's not like that. It's a new missed opportunity, because precisely this young man went into the line: he asks to close the Civil and Political Rights Office, which is an organ precisely that ages for these rights in a context of great threats, in a context where these rights are restricted and threatened. And, therefore, in fact, this young man who wants..., who wants, therefore, the People's Party and the rest of the groups who have expressed themselves in this way are continuing to weaken the rights and consolidate this detail and this retreat in the political and civil rights. Miri, there is a very great consensus, in fact, an international consensus, through the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, signed in New York in 1966, ratified for the Spanish State on 77..., and, therefore, it is a great pact, a great agreement that we share. And, therefore, everyone should be working to defend these rights. Let's talk about everyone's rights, obviously – everyone's. Let us talk about the rights of everyone and ensure that the different ideas can be expressed in freedom and that they are not persecuted, as we see happening in our country. We are not the ones who distinguish between good and bad; we condemn all violations and defend all rights. This wasn't just independence, or not independence, as some of us want to make believe; it was about the rights of everyone, of all the various people working for the struggle to change the system, to change society and to transform our country socially. Because here what is threatened is any kind of dissent or opposition. Therefore, the office will come forward to present itself to the Commission of Institutional Affairs of this chamber..., brings all those actions aimed at defending the rights of demonstration, of assembly, of association, of freedom of expression, of political participation and of holding fair trials. And after he went into operation, he met with a forty-one entity, collected 328 attacks on freedom of expression and ideological plurality by ultra-dating groups, processed thirty requests for action, and maintained a series of meetings for the purpose of political coordination of the Government's action. And it is currently focused on two themes: to attend to and support Catalans living abroad who want to participate in this own electoral cycle and that their political right of participation is not guaranteed, precisely, by this electoral law, the LOREG, which we have through the vote preached, and is also working on how we can reverse the difficulties to exercise the right to universal suffrage that is suffered by Catalans and Catalans with a past migration and that do not have nationality. Accused of you, of the People's Party, accuse the Office of Civil Rights and Policies of alluding to the fact that you may, in fact, have, because we have many examples of violations where you have been complicit, of violations of these civil and political rights: the Law of Citizen Security, the law bites, that it is a threat to the limitation of the right to protest or freedom of expression; a _each_ city cannot exercise this right of vote precisely for what it commented of the Electoral Law; it finds us a retrograde in the exercise of freedom of expression, with a very excessive and very restrictive reading by the judge and your court. And we could continue to speak of examples, examples and examples, until the exercise of the right to self-determination in article 1 of this International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights is repeatedly prevented. We could go on – we could go on. You want to fail the director because they don't like what he thinks or what he's done, not because of the work he's doing. You want to close the office because it is you who are complicit in restricting these rights that we say must be guaranteed and preserved. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Therefore, we will vote "no to this young man, to say yes to civil and political rights, and we will follow...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.92.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.93.0	...working to guarantee them to everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.94.0	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mrs Aurora Madaula's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.95.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Councillors, members of the Government, members of Parliament, members of the Honourable People of Catalonia, well, I now, in principle and first place, congratulate the People's Party. I congratulate the People's Party on this motion, because we agree in many points; in many others, obviously not. I congratulate them, because, look, before they used the state's apparatus – the judicial apparatus, the police apparatus and even all the state's locksmiths – to go against civil and political rights, and now they're doing it presenting a motion against civil and political rights, publicly chasing them, without faces. And, therefore, it is an exhibition of transparency and, therefore, happiness. [[Greetings.]] A democracy... I also agreed with something he said, which is low-quality democracy. Indeed, we have a democracy of very low quality in the State in which we live now. A democracy of very low quality that already sees from the moon – goes from the moon –, goes from the Transition. Because the Transition was neither peaceful nor exemplary. And if not, I recommend them..., I always recommend a book, which is The Bloody Transition; but, well, I could also recommend another, which is newer, which is Cal Vive, by José Amedo, explaining what the LAG was and how from the government, from the Spanish state apparatus it was torturing, persecuting and murdering people for their political ideas. A democracy that is imperfect and that is a democracy in crisis, when it applies the law bite since 2015 and which, certainly, the Socialist Party, the PSOE, has not yet repealed. A law that, according to entities like Amnesty International, entails unnecessary and unjustified restriction of the rights to freedom of assembly, expression or information. A biting law that tempts against forty-four non-criminal ducts with many, as the other companies have said, that has served to collect more than 25_million euros; many to carve a street, to take a demonstration, to take photographs to the police. In fact, it was a year ago that two people like Tamara Carrasco and Adri Carrasco are in a situation of loss of freedom because of this biting law. So... Remember Tamara? So yesterday it was a year that didn't enjoy this freedom. And, in fact, from the reference of '1 October, with the preparations, this biting law attacked even more; an attack that is denounced, for example, from the Human Rights Commission of the Council of Europe, Ms. Dunja Mijatović, who denounced the Spanish Government because this law undermined, attacked human rights, since it does not guarantee the fundamental rights such as freedom of expression or freedom of assembly. Obviously there is an ascent of the extreme right that makes this democracy still more attacked; ascensions of the extreme right, of the attacks of the extreme right, the right of the parties of the right – of Spanish nationalist parties; some are already on the right, now they are on the far right clearly – that has forced a loss of civil and political rights. This increase in the extreme right... if you want, another day we'll talk about what fascism is and what extreme right is. This increase in the violence of the extreme right – more than a dozen groups linked to the extreme right in Catalonia, which featured more than three hundred incidents and attacks in 2017 –..., 40 percent of the complaints the office has rejected are related to this increase in the extreme right. And precisely today... that's why I'm saying democracy is touched from the moon. Today it is twenty years since the assassination of Guillem Aguló; Guillem Aguló, assassinated by the extreme right in Valencia. The far right goes from the moon and is still here, with many more examples. Vulneration of civil and political rights that I will not finish with this intervention, obviously: right to the demonstration, right to the free expression, it has already been commented on before; but puppeteers; photomountains with the face of Christ, fined with five hundred euros; journalists; censorship of works of art; censorship of songs– Valtònyc, Pablo Hasel, La Polla Records –, which was not censored before, during the dictatorship, and is now censored during this ill-called democracy; political persecution– obviously, persecution of political dissent– ; the reference: we do not have justice, obviously, as the Nobel Prize winner of Paul Williams said, that today he denounced that political prisoners have no justice and no justice. Precisely Jody Williams will be tomorrow in this Parliament, in the Commission of Study of Civil Rights and Policies, study commission in which you do not participate. I invite you to vacate and listen to the people who denounce that Spain and Catalonia are not being respected and are totally and continuously violating civil and political rights. And that's why we're going to vote no. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.96.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the name of the proposed group and in order to position herself on the issues, the Member of Parliament, Ms Esperança Garcia, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.97.0	MPs, MPs, well, let's see if we can have a little more relaxed debate, huh? [[The joker laughs.]] I think it suits us. With respect to the motion presented, first thank the Ciutadans Group for the enthusiasm it has put in our motion. We hope that the support is also translated into a favorable vote of these two points of the motion. We have accepted the message of the PSC, we believe that technically it is very correct and that, in fact, the staff that make up this office, that there are only two people, in the case of the success of Point 1, that is the termination of the director and the closure of the office, should integrate both functionally and personally, in terms of public function, within the union of heavy goods. Nothing to say – nothing to say – about the appearance of Mr. Pablo Iglesias here in the plenary. It must be said that you have exactly the same, the same vision and the same pattern of insults that try to store their political position, which is of absolute complicity always and of absolute fidelity to political separatism; but it will not serve them. And to the separatist lords: escort, that is not; that it is not a question of whether we like it or not we like the office or the Lord Majo before this office of political rights. The point is that we don't want to fail him; they haven't heard about it yet, it's not about that. What we want is for the coverters that you believe to be politically counter-connected to end at once. This office does not serve to guarantee the civil and political rights of Catalans; it only serves to make a government-subsidized counter-relationship to make a counter-relationship of "Spain is not an advanced democracy. With this we already know that it is not so, with that we know that we live in a country with full guarantees, with that we know that you are not reprisals, but that you are delinquent from public power and from your political exercise, I am very sorry, but you are paying for it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.98.0	The honourable Member asks you... please ask her to withdraw the last expression she has made, that she has spoken directly that the deputies are delinquent, and that she knows that she violates all the pacts that we have had, as a parliamentary group. Therefore, they ask you to withdraw the expression, if not, you will have to call it to order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.99.0	I will correct, in the sense that some Members who have been part of this chamber are accused and are being tried before a court and are still awaiting trial.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.100.0	Okay, that's another precision. We called for a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, we'll go to the vote. Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.101.0	Yes, to ask for separate votes from points to b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.102.0	Okay. Actually, of the two you've got the lady, say so, huh? All right, let's move on, then, to vote for the point of the young man. The vote begins. The vote was rejected by 55 votes to 71, with no abstentions. Let's just move on to vote on point b. The vote begins. Point b was rejected by 20 votes to 71, with 35 abstentions. [[Motion following the question to the Government on the recovery of the great consensus to make Catalonia move forward]] [[302-00090/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the recovery of the great consensus to make Catalonia advance; presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. Introduce the motion Ms.Jessica Albiach's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.103.0	Yes, thank you, President. And nice late. Well, as I explained the day of the inquiry, this young man is born of the will to contribute to the situation..., or continue, is born with the will to unblock the situation that we are patenting and that it is the result of the triple crisis that exists in the State, that it is a crisis that is social, that is democratic, that is institutional, and primarily the democracy is affecting with particular virulence Catalonia. We are convinced that the solution to the block passes through the dialog; a dialog that needs to be contained; a dialog that we propose to address in an agenda that we call Catalan and change, and that we need to gather the great consensus that we have as a society. An agenda, of course, that cannot come from the table of the dialect, as some parliamentary group of this chamber had suggested, but it must come from this Parliament, because it is one of the key institutions of the Catalonian self-government and because it is already lacking these institutions of self-government. And a couple more cheers. The purpose of this agenda is for the Government of Catalonia to transfer it in its bilateral relationship with the Government of Spain. We know there's been negotiations and we hope there's more going on. And as we believe that it cannot happen again that citizenship and that this Parliament is on the sidelines of negotiations and what is being talked about between the two administrations, we believe that this agenda contributes to a transparency exercise, which is what we consider to be the most important. And then again: when we say 'consensus' we are not only referring to the consensus of which the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinion is speaking, but also. That's why we're talking about referring to this young man, we're talking about decriminalizing politics, we're talking about the freedom of prisoners and political pressures, about ending the corruption of the monarchy, but we're also talking about all those issues that improve the life of the 99_per_cent and that, beyond political programs, we think that it should be a thing of the very least of all parliamentary groups in this chamber, that in the end we have a compromise with a reality that is shared. Because, of course, if we go out on the street and ask the common people if they agree that they are shielding their pensions, we will certainly add that it is also one of the great consensus. If we ask the common people if they want to have decent working conditions, we'll also see how one of the big consensuses is. Don't you, the common people, take a break and the price of the lodger doesn't go too far? Independentists or non-independentists, whatever they do. Would you not see the common people, too, with good eyes a public bank that helps the families and the peppers, and that the banks that have been rescued with the money of all and from all turn the money and return to our pockets? Isn't that common sense? And maybe it's not a great deal of consensus, too, that you have to make a sanitary cord against the extreme right, this one that still wants to make the spread of rights and freedoms worse, and wants the women to come home? Or shielding the pact against male-based rape? Shouldn't this also be one of the big consensuses, fighting the climate change and making an energy transition plan? So, this is what this young man is talking about, he's talking about shielding the living conditions and the rights of the common people. And that's why we also propose ending with articles like 135 of the Constitution, which in the end is prioritizing the payment of the debt and the interests of the debt, before..., putting them ahead of social policies. And lastly, we're also talking about cleaning up the state to regenerate democracy. It's not a rotten apple problem. We know that in Catalonia, and that's why we want solutions. It may prohibit the doors to the law, it may guarantee the independence of the judiciary, and it may end the state's locksmiths. Beyond all the differences that we may have in this chamber, we consider these to be some minor questions. I insist, of all this speaks to this young man: of shielding social rights, of democratic regeneration and of a political solution to a conflict that is political and that has to end with a reference from the real dialog. Now we will listen to the speeches and speeches of the different parliamentary groups and see how they stand, and above all we will see, those that go from progressives, finally what they say and what they end up voting, because the words will then be demonstrated with facts. We have this clear: when it comes to defending rights and defending freedoms, it's only possible to be with them up or down, and we have this clear. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.104.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To position itself on the papers presented, it has the first word, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar. Mr Ferran Pedret has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.105.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Councillor, Members and Members, well, there is this motion following the question made by the group of the commons on the occasion of the Ple, in which, let us say, there are aspects that seem very positive to us, in the sense that there is a dialogue between the political formations, between the parliamentary groups in their institution, in order to unlock the institutional and political situation in our country. That sounds very good to us, and we agree. I think we have some differences, not necessarily with the group of the commons, but generally in the chamber, respect the conception of what a political dialog must be to get out of the sugar in which we find ourselves. To us it seems, from the beginning..., and I say it to a part of the chamber that is, let's say, making a very intense campaign against any dialogue with political formations that has held positions favorable to the independence of Catalonia. It does not seem to us that it is possible to conceive a dialog in which one asks his interlocutor to resign from entry to all his premises, to his political objectives, before asserting's. Require an unconditional return menu from the interviewer before he talks, and if that's not how he conceives of the fact of his sister as a betrayal and as, go, vendettas and these things that are said, then it seems to be an absolute error and it has never been possible to have a serious political dialogue, because the truth is that in any society we have always placed a lot of lengths and a lot of confrontations. In the second term, it does not seem to us that there can be a sincere call to a political dialog if what is claimed is that the same political objectives and the same approaches follow the starting premise; that is, the acceptance of the program at most of the same follow the starting premise. I know this isn't Mrs. Albiach's approach – don't make me do it, it didn't address you – but I'm saying it to frame our position of respect. It seems to us that, therefore, we need to address a political dialogue in which we do not intend to start from this premise that we need to assume the position of one of the parties as one's own in the dialogue, nor that there should be an explicit waiver of the positions of one of the parties so that we can begin to engage in dialogue. I know it may seem like an embarassment, but it's that in the end it seems that everyone is putting the dialog in their mouths and there are few people, relatively few people, willing to practice it, let's just say, with genuine political honesty, huh? And, therefore, I think this would be the first one to establish. In the second term, and precisely as derived from this..., and much so that the setting up of the commons in this, and asking us in the previous days what our position would be, so what is known in the parliaments as a parany motion for some of the parliamentary groups to whom we allude here evening "those who go from progressives. Indeed, those of us who are progressives and who have always claimed to be socialists, of the tradition of democratic socialism, do not think that we can already establish in this young man who must be the fruits and the great consensus of this dialect to which they call. I tried to explain it. To us, in particular, it seems to us to be an implacable logic that if it appeals to political forces as different as those that conform to this parliamentary arc to establish a political dialogue on what must be the great basic consensus, it is difficult to pretend to vote on them already listed, listed and as concrete as you do. So, to us, who, let's just say, would probably surprise them to what degree we can agree if we talk about it, it seems to us that it is not a subtempt waste now to vote, already, which must be the change agenda. Home, let's talk first, shall we? , among all the political formations, why is it that, if not..., in short, these great consensuses that are demonically fixed, so sometimes they have their own difficulties, huh? We will not be talking about democracy now, which is the great nerve movement in the middle of the chamber, but, finally, I think that what it is to talk sincerely and seek to go about it is to weave some basic consensus and, if possible, after some political agreements, with which to then raise, let us say, the questions that are in agreement with a large majority of this chamber and which can be claimed before other institutions. But if the young man's intention was another, then they would be satisfied with his party and we would still not have the dialect you call it, and we would go to the electoral campaign all so calm to have been able, let's say, to take a step and say that one is the most progressive of all there is in the chamber. But, anyway, I don't think that's gonna get us out of sugar. I think it'll be other things that get us out of sugar. And we, who have always been in favour of the French "step of enemies on the left", continue to make a call to the whole left to let ourselves be novels and to make a common front in these general elections, before the risk that there is a...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.106.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.107.0	...reaction movement to which the citizenry has to plant face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.108.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it is the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Mr Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.109.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Forgive my aphony. And, in any case, I'm going to state our position on this motion. Be..., this motion presented to us today by the Catalonia Group in Comú Puem is very illustrative of the accredited condition of lifeguards of the process of his party, from Catalunya in Comú Puem. The process has been the greatest loss of energy, time, resources and, above all, the greatest disaster in terms of coexistence in the recent history of Catalonia, and you, however, continue to insist that the solution to all the problems of Catalonia will come, as the balm of Fierabras, from a referendum of self-determination, which has proved to be the most divisive thing that can be in the world, as we have seen recently with Brexit in the United Kingdom. In fact, this connivance between the separatist parties and the populism of Podemos was seen yesterday very clearly in the sense of the tribute given by Mr. Torra to Mr. Iglesias, in a genuine panegyric dedicated by the President of the Generalitat to Mr. Iglesias, precisely by presenting as the champion of democracy by sharing the contempt of Mr. Iglesias for our democracy, for Spanish democracy, by subscribing to the absurd thesis that in Spain there may have been political prisoners, there are exiles, and all this claim that in Spain there is a great repression, which is not only an offence to the truth, but above all an offence for those who have actually been retaliated by regimes..., or are retaliated by dictatorial regimes. It also shows the extent to which you defend exactly the same as the nationalists. That contempt for our democracy in which they insist separatists and populists is not bought by anyone at all relevant in the world, because Spanish democracy always appears, in all international rankings and according to the main international institutions, as one of the best valued democracies in the world. On the other hand, you not only buy all the dogmas of nationalism, but, in addition, what you call the great consensus of Catalonia, which you do not cease to be more than the dogmas of nationalism and linguistic nationalism, that the only language of Catalonia is Catalan, that the vast majority of Catalans want the separation of the rest of Spain, that the vast majority of Catalans want a referendum of separation, or that is the only problem that matters to Catalans... all you are doing is repeating, repeating the mantras of nationalism. To finish the ending, moreover, yesterday you made very clear how you intend to materialize these great consensuses, which is, curiously, excluding the main party of Catalonia; the party preferred by the Catalans you prefer to exclude it and decide to exclude what to carry out, to materialize, those great consensuses of which you speak. Curious way to try to build consensus, that will to exclude the majority party of Catalonia. However, this logic so pilgrim of his coincides with the peculiar cosmovision of Pablo Iglesias, who insists, whenever he speaks of the Catalan parties, on referring to the separatist parties, Podemos or Catalonia in Comú Puem and the socialists, and instead excludes citizens by system. Citizens, for Pablo Iglesias, is not a Catalan party, although Citizens is a party born in Catalonia, born of the tiredness of a group of Catalan intellectuals who saw with concern how the PSC did exactly the same policies that the nationalist parties had done until then and therefore doubting the Catalanity of Citizens can only be understood from the perspective of that nationalism that you share with the separatist parties. As if it were not possible to defend from Catalonia a Catalan force, born in Catalonia, defender of the unity of Spain, defender of the Spanish Constitution and defender of the unity of sovereignty of the Spanish people as a whole, and advocate that what is to be Spain we will decide among all the Spaniards, which seems to me to be the most democratic thing in the world. And you here all you do is make the fat broth to the nationalists, saying exactly the same thing they say about it. If you assume the mental framework of the nationalists who, even in a motion written in Catalan, write « Catalunya, amb ena, i grega, y« Spain, con eñe, in order to make clear the difference between Catalonia and Spain, that that of speaking Spanish or writing « Spain with eñe is Spanish, but not Catalan. It seems to me the summum of the ridiculousness that you have come to the extreme of using that expression. You assume on foot the symmetrical contrast between Catalonia and Spain, as if it were two different and opposable realities. You fill your mouth talking about Catalonia's plurality, but Catalonia's plurality don't want to know anything. They acritically assume each and every dogma of nationalism. That is why I am not surprised that you, the Lords of Podemos, assume in unison with the separatists the mantra that with Citizens there came discord, because indeed with Citizens there came the discussion of the cultural hegemony of nationalism in Catalonia, that until Citizens arrived no one had discussed it in this Parliament; you, of course, do not assume it absolutely. I am referring to cultural hegemony in the Gramsian sense, which is surely familiar to you: that hegemony that you intend to impose as the dominant ideology of a particular public space an idea that does not correspond to the ideas of the majority of citizens of that place. Anyway, I understand that complex that you have with the word Spain and with the idea of Spain that you share with the nationalist parties, because I want to recall a few words from your leader, Mr. Pablo Iglesias, who once said that he could not pronounce the word Spain, because it made him ashamed to pronounce the word Spain; he felt ashamed to pronounce the word of his country. It is really a tremendous thing for a country to have to endure when someone who intends to preside over that country says that he is ashamed to speak the word of that country. It's really trembling how you guys have done to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.110.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.111.0	...separatists' crutches. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.112.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican Group, it is the return of the MP Mònica Palacín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.113.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members, Members, Members of the public who accompany us today, I can define the feeling with which I present or defend this young man, and it is with the word 'perplexity'. Perplexed before the motion presented to us, which refers to great consensus, but they have been unable to accept not one of the items we have presented to them– not one of them. They have given a great example of unilaterality, despite the incoming title of the motion itself and what we have tried, during the hours ahead of this plenary, to agree with you. They present a motion that they do not want to approve from the consensus; it is obvious. The title says the big consensus, but the motion does not want to approve it from the consensus, but serves them as an electoral falcon. Yeah, with his election program. They present a motion that, on the margin of the dial table, the tool that you already have and that was created from this Parliament..., present a motive trap. Miri, we can expect from the initiative, but from the commons... [[Rialles.]] So the truth is, no. [[Some applause.]] Look, we're the ones who will never give up the dialog, but we won't give up self-determination or independence. We've never done it, we'll never do it, despite the exceptionality that I'm still conditioned by. Self-determination in the face of the repression of the State; dialogue before immobilism, without conditions – nor theirs. It is not possible that a dialogue between governments, which is complex, is a condition of entry from a long and extensive catalogue of points as they put us in this letter to the King – I forgive – to his electoral program – I forgive – in this young man. They subject the dialect to seven Members, with all the respect of the world – with all the respect of the world – when 80_percent of the citizenry has already made it very clear who these consensuses are – he has told them. He said: "Faith of repression and reference. And he told them. And he showed up on the street, and we told him. And we say she's a cheater – let's say again that she's a cheater, gentlemen of the commons – and that they present her armored. Because it's more about shielding the social rights of the citizenry, but what they present armored is a young man where they plant is through a change agenda– a change agenda. It's just that they didn't even hide it in the word of the agenda when they used the term municipal slang when they plant joints of the change. Almenys is hiding. We presented a statement to you saying: "Why don't we give the Catalan political agenda? They didn't accept this dream, either. Look, it's a young man who's a pot of proposals, with a lot of proposals, many sectors, many that are the competence of the State, such as the repeal of labour reform, the judicial system, pensions – the armoring of pensions–... All right, we're very much in agreement on this. In fact, look, at the Congress of Deputies, our parliamentary group voted twenty-seven out of the twenty-seven royal decrees of law presented for the government that it has presented during these months, we voted all the proposals that have been made from Podemos – the initiatives of Podemos we voted for one hundred_per_cent–, but I will also say one thing: none of these proposals was to repeal labour reform or to repeal the biting law or to repeal the immigration law. And we've found each other. Therefore, the work that PSOE has also done at the Congress has also remained in question, because if there is any wish to have found these majorities with the Republican Left Group at the Congress. And I'll give him more examples of those points they're planting. It says 'against the state's locksmiths. Perfect. Will they ask him again to appear at the Villarejo police exit, which they vetoed at the Congress on October? Will they ask you again? Suppose you do. In a short time. And what I want to say to you is that you, in the introduction of your young lady, say that the reason for the existence of the blockade is because of a state crisis. We diem..., talk about the triple crisis: the economic, social crisis..., no? We told them that the crisis is due to the lack of democracy in the Spanish State. If you are willing to respect the right to self-determination of the people of Catalonia, win elections, help us to make the political solution possible, but do not pretend, through a motion presented here, that we approve their electoral program. We won't vote against it either, because it's things we've obviously defended and always defended. Do not place limits on the dialog table. They presented this out of the dialog table. Don't be the future of the country to state arithmetic: don't do it, please. No conditions – neither will theirs –; we will never give up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.114.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.115.0	... no way – no way – to achieve independence. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.116.0	On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of the deputy Lluís Guinó. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.117.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, let me say that Mrs Albiach said that she had raised this motion precisely because she wanted to avoid the blockade and she wanted to create an unblocking of Catalan politics, but I must also say – some other parliamentary group has already said this – that in order to unblock it, it should not be particularly strict with the documents submitted by the parliamentary groups and try to agree, negotiate and reach agreements. Without that, it's hard to unlock anything at all. There has been reference before, too, that when we speak of red lines or when we open the dialog we open the dialog in a sincere way, and do not precisely set the maximisms of each group, in a reciprocal way, as limits to this dialog. When maximalisms are planted and maximalisms are criticized on the part of one of the parts to be dialogued..., this layout must be necessarily reciprocal. If it is not reciprocal, it is not sincere; if it is not sincere, it does not really appeal to the dialect that the country needs, precisely, to pull forward. There has been a reference before: there are questions, in this case, that it is a..., I will not say the classic of a « trap, because I believe that it is not a correct definition from a parliamentary point of view, but it is a grandiose, white, very long lençol, and that it is basically his electoral program, as the electoral campaign for elections to the Congress of Deputies is precisely beginning. And so, man, it's obvious that your change schedule isn't ours. We have a different change agenda to bring the country to independence and to the Catalonia self-determination process. This is a different agenda. It is also true that there are points that are difficult to avoid to vote in favour. So, we, who are shooting at policies against male violence... it's obvious that we need to vote for them, because we believe in them, and because more than the government is already putting a whole set of mechanisms into practice. We also support the fact that the decorations that have brought torturers to an end with Billy El Niño is an evidence that we are absolutely against, and we will vote in favour precisely of his proposal. But they are very general proposals that do not necessarily define a program that is very different from its in many questions. We are looking for a solution in the field of bilaterality, basically, because without a dialog it is impossible to solve a political issue. We wanted to address a political issue in the judicial sphere, and we are defending the depoliticization of justice – that this is also what you agree with, and many other parliamentary groups – but also what we are defending is that it is not judicial, politics. There are some interventions that have been completed before the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court that should have been held in this chamber. And all positions must be respected. In the Second Room of the Supreme, while some are particularly pleased to keep people seated and waiting for the result of a surely unfair feeling, it is obvious that there are no speeches, that the Second Room of the Supreme is not the right place to do politics. To make politics, the Congress of Deputies in the Spanish elections in one month; to make politics, the assemblies, also in two months, and in the European elections, also in two months. And do politics here, too, because this is the Parliament will rise from Catalonia. And, therefore, we defend, I insist, that they are political from here. But we don't impose ourselves with a young man on his entire election program, because we have, in many questions, very different approaches. As an example, I believe that Catalonia deserves to have or have a suitable energy plan, that it does not depend so much on the competences of the State in certain questions. I remember that I actively participated in the attempt to have an anti-fracking law in Catalonia, that for reasons of falling out of line with the Constitutional Court and that it had difficulties, precisely, of execution, because there is clearly a problem of competitions. From Catalonia, we want to develop precisely a suitable energy plan. We want to develop our own policies even at the fiscal level – now I see that there is, for a band, the justice adviser, and the economic vice president of the government. We want to bring to fruition what are the policies that, in fact, defend better – much better – the rights of the citizenry. And from this perspective let us know that there are questions that we will vote for – it is absolutely unthinkable that in certain questions we will not vote for – but our north continues to feel the independence of the country, the capacity that this country has to develop, and obviously to keep alive, more than ever, the hope of October 1. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.118.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.119.0	Thank you, President. Well, ordinary people, it is absolutely legitimate to settle the political conflict with the Spanish State through the dialogue and an agreement – absolutely legitimate. Now, what we think is not legitimate, and above all it is not strict, or it is not honest, is to raise it to the public opinion that this is possible, because you know perfectly well that architecture, the political structure of the State, makes it impossible at these times to reach bilateral agreement with the State that allows a self-determination reference, as they have been and are – and I hope they will be – from the world to self-determination references; that is, independence, yes or no. That's not feasible. At these times, the institutional structure of the State does not allow it, and no government of what we can imagine as possible to the Spanish State will ever allow it. Therefore, what we understand is that this is his program – or good part of his program – reformist for the Spanish State and Catalonia, which honestly does not seem realistic to us. But, apart from that, we are not a reformist or social-democratic political force; we are disruptive and anti-capitalist and, therefore, cannot share the general intention of setting up her youth. I, look, the problem is model – the problem is model. And it's obvious that, in view of the young man you're planting, the model we don't share. Mirin, 15-M you and we are talking about removing the 78 rule, and here we are being presented with a motion to reform it – to reform it. Of course, in theoretical terms, the general idea of whether a state is reformable is feasible, but the 78's regime is not reformable; it is a conglomerate of political power to finance military justice that is not reformable, and they know it perfectly well. And we know perfectly well – and so they show the facts in the past year – that self-determination today – the exercise of self-determination – is what you have the most ability to remove from the rule. And they know perfectly well that this ability, that this popular takeover of the regime that generates self-determination today is only possible from a breakup – from a one-sided breakup. And that's the pure reality. Therefore, we defend that the social change, that progress in social, civil and political rights for everyone will produce in two terms: in the struggle for the rupture with the Spanish State and with the rule, and, for another, with the confrontation with the elites, with the ruling classes and the autonomous and neoliberal class interests in Catalonia, we in some places will vote against, in others we will abstain...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.120.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.121.0	... in others we will vote that yes, but we cannot share the background or the general intention of his motion. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.122.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Congresswoman Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.123.0	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Albiach, I am responsible for the electoral programme in the People's Party, and I know that I have spent a few months drafting the electoral programme and I had not thought of the possibility of making this new formula, which is to present an electoral programme in the form of a motion for the vote of your fellow Members. Look, if I were from Podemos – from Podemos in Catalonia – I would probably vote for them, but I'm not. So I would have encouraged him to have presented something that was really out of consensus-seeking, because consensus is not semantic, it is not word of mouth, it is not only worth saying what; we have to do what and we have to practice what. The problem, gentlemen of Podemos, is that in the matter that is ours in Catalonia you blow and sip at the same time. They shower without water, so they don't get wet. They try to say yes, no, a little all the same, and so make it useful for one side, and sometimes less useful for the other. What cannot be is to put the same level of law enforcement and non-compliance. Legality is the duty to do the right thing, and illegality is not to do the right thing. That is the basic concept that occupies us in order to be able to talk about consensus. What is not consensus is to have a president of the nearest Generalitat of Louis XIV, the Sun King, who says "I am the people, instead of a democratic ruler who looks into the eyes and empathizes with that Catalan reality, with that part of Catalans who do not think like him, for which this parliamentary chamber does not do any government action, is paralyzed, everything, under the question of Catalonia. It is not a consensus that companies should leave, it is not a consensus that TV3 simply criticizes, humiliates and hides itself from those who are not independent. But I'll tell you one thing: Mrs. Albiach, Catalonia is not doomed to live forever under this loop, under these circumstances. Withdraw exclusive and identity nationalism from the institutions of government, withdraw the way it governs, and Catalonia, yes, will finally be free, because [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] their citizens, because Catalans will be free to be and feel...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.124.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.125.0	... whatever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.126.0	Thank you. Once the position of all the groups has been expressed, it is up to us to pronounce on the papers. It's Mrs. Albiach's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.127.0	Well, thank you very much for the interventions of all the groups. Mr. Guino and Mr. Levy, this is not our election program. Actually, you... Mrs. Levy didn't, but you recognized that there are many points that we have in common and that, in fact, we could vote in favour. We shall therefore see to it that the votes are taken. They will certainly do so; therefore, you see that this is not our electoral program, but that it is a question of a minimum. Lady Palacín, the slogan of the campaign is "Win to advance. There's nothing to see with the change. And, in fact, the motto of the municipalities has not yet appeared. In Ciutadans: how many things, how many times do they have to give in order not to recognize that what they do not want is to shield the pact against the masculinist rapes or the struggle against the climate change, which in the end is what this young man went about. And at the PSC we also saw him looking for excuses, so, not to shield pensions for the law, not to repeal labor reforms – normal, one was Zapatero's –, not to limit the price of the logger, not to clean institutions. Actually, they've had new months to do it, and they didn't do it because they didn't want to. So neither has the intervention they have made so far surprised us. In any case, for us the great consensuss are those that come from the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio, but also those that come from the streets and those that are of social justice. That's where we think the centrality of the country is, and so, as I said yesterday, we ask the Republican Left and the PSC to come to the centrality, which is in the social rights, in democratic regeneration and in a political solution that passes through a referendum for Catalonia. We do not subject social rights to national rights, and we only hope that the Republican Left will stop converging and the PSC will stop being a branch of the PSOE. We want to work together so that Catalonia can advance in rights and freedoms, and before what they say A and fan B, in this vote we will see if they are looking for their faces. We think it's time for clarity and it's time for the truth, too. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.128.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Mrs. Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.129.0	President, we would call for a separate vote on all points and subpoints.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.130.0	All right. Therefore, do not ask if anyone else asks for separate votes because we will vote each point and subpoint of this motion. Let us therefore proceed to the vote. [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Pujol, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.131.0	It was that point three...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.132.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.133.0	...that the reading and the separate vote of point 3, on the margins of the differences... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The headmistress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.134.0	The headmistress and then the subpoints, I understand, huh? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] And he said reading, too, did he seem to me? [[Pause.]] No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.135.0	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.136.0	Ah, no, no, he forgave – he forgave. Therefore, the vote on item 3 and thereafter, b and thereafter. Perfect. All right, let's start the vote with point 1 of the vote. The vote begins. Point 1 of this motion was approved by 87 votes to 40, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2 was approved by 68 votes to 40, with 20 abstentions. And now we're going to vote number three. The vote begins. The capping of point 3 was rejected by 6 votes in favour, 104 against and 17 abstentions. And now we're going to vote for the subpoint. The vote begins. The sub-point was approved by 66 votes to 43, with 19 abstentions. And now... [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.137.0	It's for a point of order, President. It sounds a little strange that the heading of point 3, which is the one that supports the points that follow, has turned out to be rejected, and then it is necessary to vote a few points that are the ones that are to be inserted in what says point 3 that has not been approved. And I think it's a little inconsistent to follow the vote on this point 3 if the cap has been rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.138.0	It is true, Mr Rodriguez, but for another band it is also certain that we do not normally have a problem with voting points and subpoints, and that then, of course, the coherence of the voted motion needs to be reconstructed. And that happened in different reasons where we made the difference in voting points and subpoints. [[Andrea Levy Soler asks to speak.]] Yes, say'm, Miss Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.139.0	About this, huh? But what you say in point 3 is that it will contain, among others, those points. It's not that there are separate votes that can be drawn from point 3, it's that point 3 encompasses all these questions; therefore, either we're in favour of everything that says these points or we're not. I don't think you can vote separately. [[Carles Riera Albert asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.140.0	Say'm, Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.141.0	Thank you, President. The same way. Indeed, we understand that what is written in point 3 is nothing but a generic encapsulation, and after which the points of the motion follow themselves. Therefore, we say, all subsequent vote would be 3a, 3.b, 3.c, 3.d, which always included the cap and the corresponding point. We believe that this would be the right way to put this vote into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.142.0	Well, despite the fact that we have already started voting, it takes two minutes for us to consult the Bureau and to study it and then we have just decided. Thank you. [[Widow's remorse. Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I didn't see it. Anyway, I guess it's... I don't know if it's on the same line. Mr. Pedret... yes? [[Pause.]] Say it, say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.143.0	Thank you. No, since other groups have spoken, to transfer to the Bureau, for the considerations to be made, the parent of ours. We understand that, when the third point falls, the entrance of the third point, that it is the one who gives a mandate to the Government of the Government of Catalonia, the one who wants to do something, the rest of the contents I understand that it is a little congruent, with the vote we have just made, that it is voted one by one. [[Gerard Gómez del Moral and Fuster asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.144.0	Mr. Moral Gomez, say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.145.0	Yes, President. With regard to what Mr Pedret is saying now, what the Government of the Generality is urging is the first point, that this is not an object of debate. Point 3 is to do so with a certain..., name of the '« agenda of the change in a certain question, which is the one that has been rejected extensively by the chamber. The initial encapsulation, which is: "The Catalonian Parliament urges the Government is not susceptible to vote. Therefore, simply the points for letters have congruence, grabbing any of them we see..., therefore, « shield the reform, « do not know what. Well, it's not linked to the change agenda, but it's political proposals that we think we can vote on. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.146.0	Yes, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.147.0	I believe that what makes it clearer how to solve the problem is to read the literality, and it is: "Improving an agenda of change that contains, among other things, the following points. If the agenda for change is not pushed, there cannot be points included in any agenda, since that agenda is not pushed. Therefore, the congruence is that, rejected the heading, they have no reason to be the rest of the points. [[Gemma Geis and Carreras and Susanna Segovia Sánchez ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.148.0	Yes, Mrs. Geis and Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.149.0	You see, we understand that there is some consistency in the fact that point 3 is not able to vote separately from the subpoints. We don't have a problem voting for the 3', not the rest of the subpoints, but this is the problem of having a motion that is an election program.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.150.0	Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.151.0	Yes, we understand that you can vote and that, in any case, it was at the time when the separate vote was asked for points and subpoints that you should have made the technical objection before you voted for the point 3 encapsulation point. It is not possible to have asked for this vote after that, that this vote has been accepted, if it is not that it is to avoid positioning itself on the points that include precisely this point 3. [[Carles Riera Albert asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.152.0	Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.153.0	Thank you, President. The same way. You see, we repeat ourselves in convenience – therefore, we ask for it – by a separate vote from the conjunction of the points of the motion; all, from the first end to the last. I insist: we understand that what you put at point 3 is nothing more than a proleg, an introduction, an encapsulation, and then you follow a series of points to vote on the motion. And, therefore, what we are asking, in any case, if that is possible, is that the vote that has taken place is cancelled, we think that it is wrong formulated or wrong planted, and we are going to vote 3.a, 3.b, 3.c, 3.d, as escape, I think that by interpreting well what is written in the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.154.0	That's just what we've been doing, Congressman. We can't cancel the vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You ask that the subpoints are voted separately, I interpret. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.155.0	In any case... no, we won't... it's been very clear, the position of each group. As I said, we are now debating the Bureau and we will just clarify how the vote continues. [[Long break.]] Well, deputies, deputies, we have listened to the Bureau, but for another band to which it corresponds to make the decision respect the vote and the general management of the House is to the President. And from my point of view, interpreting Article 168(2), I don't think it contradicts the hope of the motion to vote on the subpoints. Therefore, we will continue to vote as we initially proposed. We shall therefore proceed with the vote. We'd vote on point b. The 3rd we'd voted it, we'd vote point 3.b. The vote begins. The 3.b_point was rejected by 63 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote on point c, 3.c. The vote begins. Point 3.c was approved by 68 votes to 39, with 21 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 3.d. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 68 votes to 36, with 24 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the point. The vote begins. Point 3..., 3e – I'm sorry – is rejected by 7 votes in favour, 40 against and 81 abstentions. And now we're going to vote f. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 72 votes to 39, with 17 abstentions. And now we're voting on the g-point. The vote begins. This was approved by 72 votes to 39, with 17 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on it. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 89 votes to 36, with 3 abstentions. And we're voting now on the point. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 89 votes to 36, with 3 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the j-point. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 72 votes to 39, with 17 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the k-point. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 72 votes to 39, with 17 abstentions. We're voting for the point now. The vote begins. The point was approved by 124 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. And now we're going to vote for the point. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 124 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And now point no. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 89 votes to 39, with 39 abstentions. And now we're voting on the o-point. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 72 votes to 39, with 17 abstentions. And now we're voting for the p. The vote begins. The p-point was approved by 88 votes in favour, against and 39 abstentions. We're voting now for the point q. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 92 votes to 36 with 36 abstentions. And we're voting now on point r. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 68 votes to 60. And now we're voting on the s. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 72 votes to 39, with 17 abstentions. We're voting now on the t-point. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 72 votes to 36, with 20 abstentions. And finally we vote on the u-point. The vote begins. The vote on this motion was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 39 against and 79 abstentions. There's no more way to vote for this young man. We suspend the session until two-quarters of the late four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.156.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Vagina sit on your scons, please. [[Pause.]] Yes; why ask me the word, Mr. Riera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.157.0	Thank you, President. Article 83 of the Rules of Procedure is invoked, or alternatively, I say it in advance, if this does not succeed, Article 169.4, for which..., calling 83, we would call for the incorporation of a new item on the agenda, which would consist of a mere institutional declaration related to the arrest of Mr Julian Assange. If this were approved, we would still be proposing a text as simple as that which is a mere sentence. But it seems to us that urgency, urgency and the global importance of the subject require it. We are perfectly aware that this parliamentary sub-group alone cannot make this initiative prosper, and therefore we ask the House that, as a minimum, two parliamentary groups can join, or a part of the Members and Members, so that it is approved to include it in this plenary – on the order of the day – and therefore the adoption of this institutional declaration. I insist that if you prosper, in voice, we would propose a sentence, because it would be everything. If this does not succeed, we ask you then, invoking Article 169.4 which, on the initiative of the Presidency, can approve this statement. That, obviously, and without undermining the presidency's ability to write it for itself, if we believe our collaboration, then we can do so too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.158.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. In any case, you have exposed this petition. As you have said, they are not legitimized, as the subgroup, to ask for it, they should be either two parliamentary groups or one_five_part– as you have said very well – therefore you have made this request to the chamber. If it seems to you, let's wait a while, let's continue with the order of the day, because the groups can embrace or not their proposal, and, if it gets stronger, we will vote on this change of the order of the day and if not, then, as you said, we will see if there is any other way, eh? So I can do it, okay? [[Andrea Levy Soler asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Levy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.159.0	In the same vein, to say that, since we are asking for institutional declarations for persons held outside, I think it would be more interesting for us to make an institutional declaration for the events that took place this morning at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, in which a political, democratic group, which is presenting itself to the democratic elections of April 28th, has seen its integrity threatened, because it has suffered threats and violence so that it cannot celebrate its act peacefully. And I think this chamber should also be positioned with an institutional declaration of respect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.160.0	Mrs Levy, of course, I do not question, doubt or position the substance of the proposals. In any case, we are talking about a regulatory issue, which is the modification of the order of the day; this is for the reason that it is. In any case, we will proceed on a regular basis, without going into the background of the proposals that the parliamentary groups can make, as I said a moment ago, eh? [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the best needs for the Catalan school]] [[302-00092/12]] [[We therefore follow the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the best needs for the Catalan school, a motion presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. In order to expose her, Mrs. Sonia Sierra has the word.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.161.0	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, Members, Members, young people and other guests who are with us today. If you'll allow me, before we begin, a preview. In less than forty_y_eight_hours, he has been insulted, he has been beaten and he has been robbed of the brave students of S'ha Finat! And just a couple of hours ago the fascists tried to forcefully prevent an act at the Autonomous University of Barcelona. An act to talk about the European Union, because fascists can't stand that we can talk about union and that we can talk about freedom. And so, they have tried to prevent by force, physically prevent the act from taking place. The separatists have assaulted a councilwoman of Citizens, the separatists have insulted and mocked democratic candidates, such as Mr Manuel Valls or Mrs Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo. They have also insulted and mocked colleagues in this Parliament, such as Mr Alejandro Fernández, and a great friend of mine, such as Professor Rafael Arenas of International Law. And, in addition, they have had the little shame of calling "Nazi" a moral referent like Maite Pagaza. I want to sympathize with all these colleagues and friends; I want to condemn the facts and also the disastrous attitude of the rector who, once again, has not guaranteed the physical integrity of her students. And to the fascists I say: live the union, live the freedom and live the constitution. [[Greetings.]] Well, by the time we get to the motion, the nationalists constantly repeat the mantra that the Catalan school is a model of success. But as..., they have no rational argument to support this claim, but they have managed to embed it in such a way in the Catalan imagination, that everyone who dares to question this mantra, is immediately tainted from going against the teachers, from wanting to end the Catalan, and of course, is facsimile. But of course, the truth is that, in Catalonia, if they don't call you "facha," it's that you're no one, so it's much better to be called "facha." But, look, the ones who really go against the teachers are the ones who make them work more hours for less money. Those who really go against teachers are those who implement inclusive school, without any kind of resource, because what they call inclusive school, in fact, is to take students with special educational needs and put them in some classroom without any kind of resource. But, in fact, in Catalan school it is segregated every day: in Catalan school it is segregated to pupils with autism, who cannot stay in the school dining rooms. In the Catalan school, pupils with special educational needs are segregated, who cannot enjoy colonies or extra-curricular activities due to a lack of specialized staff. And in the Catalan school, deaf pupils, who have no sign language interpreter, are discriminated against. And, of course, teachers are not the culprits of all this, quite the contrary, teachers are the ones who suffer from the mismanagement of nationalist politicians and they are the ones who leave their skin in the classrooms every day so that these students are as well cared for as possible. But well, the nationalists continue with their mantra that the Catalan school is a model of success, that linguistic immersion is a model of success. And since they have no rational arguments to support it, they resort to arguments, let's say, unscientific. In this Parliament, we have had to hear that linguistic immersion is a model of success because people who do not have Catalan as their mother tongue can speak Catalan. As if in the rest of the world no languages were learned – much better than here, by the way – with less harmful methods. Or as if we did not have here the example of Mrs Inés Arrimadas, who learned Catalan perfectly, without the need to suffer the linguistic immersion and who, by the way, writes Catalan with fewer spelling errors than the majority of nationalist deputies and advisers, which we must see..., say much to defend Catalan, but they write it quite badly, we must not see more than their tweets, which make more spelling errors by tweet than I know. [[Widow's remorse.]] But, well, you guys keep your mantras. Nor can we allow pupils of foreign origin to continue to be punished. If you spoke to the different communities, as we do, you would know that one of the great concerns of people of foreign origin is the school failure of your children. Nor can we keep obviating that the Spanish-speaking people repeat three times as many courses as the Catalan-speaking people. And I do not need the excuse that the problem is not the language, but the social class, because in a fair education system, all students have the same opportunities, whatever the economic situation of their families. As long as you're still with the mantras, we're gonna...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.162.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.163.0	...to continue to support immigrants, Spanish speakers, autistic children and deaf children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.164.0	To defend the papers presented has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.165.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs and MPs, also people who accompany us from the rostrum. Yes, he wanted to start, so he also condemned the actions that have taken place in the Autonomous Region, trying to prevent a political act. We understand that if there is a space for debate and dialogue, this is the university. And, therefore, condemn her more roundly. But in any case, therefore, Ciutadans presents a motion on the best needed at the Catalan school, we understand that they address some of the challenges that, in fact, has education in Catalonia. Yesterday, the president of my group, Miquel Iceta, warned of some facts that we believe should be made to react to any government, and I would like to repeat them. Today, the social origin in Catalonia weighs more on school outcomes than it did in 2003. And this is a key indicator from the OECD, which we believe manifests the lack of fairness of the education system. And there's also other data that says so. We recognize the effort made by the last governments to reduce the drop-out rate from 24 per cent in 2012, to 17 per cent in the current situation; but we are still far from the European average, which is 10 per cent, and also from the 2020 target, which is 15 per cent. But the most important thing, and one that we observe with great concern, is that this index, when we look at the most disadvantaged group of students, this 20_per_per_per_per_per_per_per_per, according to Save the Children, is not only not repeated, but only grows up to 43_per_per_cent. And we understand that this so-called correlation between early school leaving and families with fewer resources has not been an advanced society that I can tolerate. These data add up to more. For example, a self-report, also a year ago, indicated that the school failure of immigrant children doubled that of natives. But, in any case, what is obvious is that we have a structural problem of educational segregation that we need to address, precisely, in order to improve both equity and educational success. And, therefore, we very much share the majority of the proposals in this motion. It is true that we have presented a number of papers, of which, therefore, one is accepted. We share, for example, the need for the Government to develop a plan to reduce this early school drop-out, especially of the most disadvantaged student, and we also believe it is certain that the Government can, therefore, carry out an analysis to determine the causes of the school failure of the foreign-origin student, which is superior to that of the native, and that a plan is established to reverse this situation. Now, we do think that it should not only consist of classes of reinforcement in mathematics or in English during the month of July, that Ciutadans proposed, we understand, in Andalusia, but also in concrete measures and accompanying throughout the school year, and that when it is necessary, therefore, it is also possible to reinforce with measures outside the lectual time, but we understand that it is not only in this space, precisely, to be more effective and not to stigmatize. Here, anyway, it's not accepted. On the other hand, it also seems to us to analyze and reduce the cases of repetition of course, which are produced both at the primary level and, above all, at the secondary level– there is a 10_per_cent student of ESO that it repeats – but not so much because of the fact that it is a Spanish-speaking student, as the proposal points out, but more quickly because the profile of the student that is more likely to repeat is of low economic level, of parents with low educational level or of immigrant families. And it seems to us that the repetition of the course, as all experts point out, does not only not reduce the levels of low income, but can generate more segregation, can generate inequality and can lead to early school leaving. And all this seems to us that the most effective strategy would be to respond to the difficulties, to the student's problem throughout the course, by means of additional support, which at these times is not always available, and, in fact, there is already empirical evidence that there is a relationship between an increase in support staff spending and a better academic outcome of the student. So now it's about putting us there. That is to say, you must all agree that so high rates, especially in high school, do not help, precisely, to improve the academic performance of this student with more difficulties. Likewise, we understand that there can be no prefabricated module choices, that they have a useful life of about five years, that, in change, therefore, there are more than two years ago, until the point that there are many students who have not had an education that is not in one of these prefabricated modules. And, therefore, we understand that this replacement plan for these barracks for a defined building is urgent. We understand that this government, this time that has "alived, between comets, in the construction of equipments, is time and investments that we have lost Catalans for a quality public education that we need. On the other hand, another clear example of what the government is not doing is inclusive education, both in lectual and non-lectual time, but equally educational, and having a direct impact on this equal opportunity. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of those proposals that want to ensure an inclusive dining space, with the support necessary to ensure precisely this access in equal conditions to the student with special educational needs, or also because the deaf student may have sign language interpreters during the school hours, a claim that we have raised many times and that it is still incomplete. And, therefore, we will vote mostly in favour of the motion, and we hope that the proper course, therefore, will not be as the day of the marmot, and we will have to return to the government – as many years ago, many years ago as we have – the shortcomings and the infra-financing of the education system that we have been experiencing since 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernat Sole has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.167.0	Well, good one's late. Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies..., miri, Mrs. Sierra, I could qualify this young man as a toast to the sun, as we are accustomed to his own. You could qualify this young man as a repetition of a repetition. He could qualify this motion, at last, as a new opportunity to introduce confrontation through language. And even so I could qualify this motion as those measures that you put on the table, but don't say how we're going to pay the teachers, how we're going to make the investments planned for the Education Department, or how we're going to provide the resources needed to keep this Catalan school that, I repeat, is a model of success. I could go in this way, but I won't. I will do the responsibility exercise that corresponds to any deputy of this chamber, which is to give answer to the needs that are raised on any subject. You, we, have a responsibility before the voters who at the time gave us confidence, and therefore what we cannot do is a continuous debate about the mantras that you always pose on the table. Therefore, I will try to argue them point by point. They ask us for a sham on school drop-out, asking us that the fem in four_months, but they do it from a point analysis and above all from a tendentious analysis. And why am I telling you this? Because it's true. There are some drop-out dates that in the case of Catalonia it is a 17_per_cent, in the case of Spain it is an 18,3_per_cent, and in the case of Europe it is a 10_per_cent, taking into account that Europe marks an objective for the year 2020 of 15_per_cent. But what you don't tell us is that the trend, in the case of Catalonia, is totally decreasing. The year 2003, the abandonment was of 34_per_cent, 2008 of 33, but currently of 17_per_cent. So, in two years, it's reduced to half. So don't kick our ass. We do not have a shoal because the department is already two measures to reduce this school drop-out, such as a better one in the orientation of ESO, a diversity and increase in the offer of vocational training, with dual vocational training, or three-year baccalaureate, etc. They also ask us for a shoal to deal with the school failure for foreign students, and, in fact, with the young person who tells us that we are working at the highest level at European level. But, curiously, the PSC gives them a message, asks them to come forward this time, and you agree to remove it. Therefore, surely this given did not have a solid enough to keep it in motion. In fact, you're also based on an erroneous premise. They're talking about the whole foreign student in a homogeneous way. It is obvious that it is necessary to analyze the foreign student in a heterogeneous way, because each student, behind each student, there is a family and there is a different socioeconomic situation. So, what you're doing is that the alien student is the one with the most fracs in school, it's precisely stigmatizing them, and so we don't share it. In fact, Catalonia, in Europe, has been one of the regions that in the last two years has reduced the school gap more. They're also talking to us about a plate of rock for the repetition of Spanish-speaking students' courses, and they're based on the famous Calero study, huh? , that this study Calero, curiously, on a scientific basis that you defend, eliminates a series of educational centers because the data are favorable to you. Look, the data is very clear. If we analyze the Spanish-speaking or Catalan-speaking students according to their socioeconomic level, then we point out that at those levels of lower socioeconomic status, that is where there is more repetition. Therefore, it is evident that repetition was totally associated with the index, with the socioeconomic situation of the family. Therefore, this argument does not serve us either. They're talking about reinforcement in mathematics and English. Look, we don't share it, because what we share is a global model across the year, and if our infants want to continue to enjoy their holidays, then we share it. At the level of prefabricated modules, we have already told him many times: we share that there should be a report; in fact, the counselor did so in his appearance at the beginning of the course, which we do not share is to remove all prefabricated modules in a direct way, because precisely prefabricated modules in specific situations, so they can come out. Finally, look, you and I distance ourselves ideologically, we have a great distance at the ideological level, despite this, we are willing to talk about education in its full extent. We're willing to talk about models, we're willing to school them, and we're willing to even pick up this path that's obviously ahead of us, but, please, I'm going to leave the language confrontation, I'm going to leave the electoral announcements that are being made continuously, and I'm going to leave the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.168.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.169.0	...the judicialization of the education system. Here, they'll find us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.170.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Deputy Xavier Quinquilla has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.171.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, let me make a statement, and it is this complaint, which we also want to subscribe to, of the detention of Julian Assange, a person signified in the struggle for freedom, also in the struggle for the freedom of Catalonia, and hence our recognition and solidarity. At the same time... [[applause]] , Mrs. Sierra... At the same time, Mrs. Sierra, that we condemn all the violins, of course we condemn them, without nuances, tolerance zero, as we do not find, in absolute, tolerable the equipping between independence and fascism. And in this sense, we are already in the matter, I would like to say in a generic way that we do not share the general purpose of the motion. You are still in the world of problems, of hardship, of conflict, of anti-politics; I do not know if you are going to enter one day into the world of solutions; in the world, precisely, of politics; in the world of dialogue, of agreements, of consensus. Miri, we're there. And, despite not sharing the young lady's background, we've tried to reach a few chords in this young lady. In any case, yes, it does respect the proposals that you make, this cluster of xoc plans – there has been no reference in the interventions that have preceded me –, to begin with... First, plan of xoc to reduce school dropout rates, as has been said, some figures that you call as others, without taking into account the actual figures, without taking into account the indicators that have been reduced by 50_percent in the last two years, and, therefore, a situation that does not justify in absolute a plan of xoc, although it admits that it can continue working and that it can continue to improve in this line. Nor does it seem to us to reject implementing a shoal to reverse the school failure of foreign students. We also enter some of the mantras that you want to go installing. To begin with, there are some from a conceptual point of view, as has been said, talking about foreign students as a whole, without taking into account the socio-economic situation has no meaning, but, more than that, let me give you a given from the PISA 2015 report, which you use so much, and so poorly, but given very concrete: a comparison between first-generation immigrant students, between Catalonia and France. So the difference in the results of the PISA report between first generation students Catalonia-France is 30 points of midjana. That's the reality. But, at times, what we do think is that the reality should be linked, precisely, to the struggle against school segregation, it should be linked to talking about classrooms, education plans, school reinforcement. And you, despite being so concerned about students living in vulnerable environments, in new students, is all a paradox that you did not want to participate in the signing of a pact that you ask all of us, which is the pact against school segregation. Plas de xoc to reduce the repetition figures of Spanish-speaking alumni. We also go into other mantras, also linked to this report to which reference has been made, a report, also, which uses some data from the PISA report in a totally partial way, where, as it has been said, they are removed in one form... well, I don't know if unconscious, not volve..., I don't want to go to other considerations, eight centers of the fifty that are part of the study, curiously, plus, they are eight centers, all of them with a high score, so this generates a high distortion respecting the outcome of the report, so that is already only a report that is totally discredited, and therefore everything that goes wrong has no logic or support. For what it does to another plate of rock that you plant in it: against the school failure. A plan of scoc consisting, attention, with classes of free reinforcements of mathematics and English during the month of July. That is to say, you think about fighting and reducing school failure by organizing English and mathematics activities in July. Good. I think that's already said for itself. With regard to the free text books, they know that we... our model is another. And respect inclusive school, reiterate our commitment to students with special educational needs to have quality and equal education. Look, gentlemen of Ciutadans, if you really want to contribute to improving the Catalan school, the best you can do is to leave the world of hardships, conflicts, and enter the world of solutions. They do politics – they do politics. They'll find us, school and the country, they'll love it, too. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.172.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position, he then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.173.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. The first thing I wanted to do was focus on the youth and, therefore, thank Mrs. Sierra for presenting this youth, because we agree that early school leaving is an urgent problem of the education system that needs to be addressed, right? Two of your guys or girls fail and drop out of school prematurely, it's a lot above the European average and, more importantly, in certain areas that are more disadvantaged, this percentage can reach 40_per_cent. So it's a problem we have to face. Now, I don't think we can make a reading that's still simplistic or that's still snuffed out by the data we have and put back into question, indirectly, that's what's done at some point in this young man, linguistic immersion. They won't find us there. Fortunately, there have been studies that are interesting, that are powerful, that are rigorous, that show us how early school leaving is very related, and it has already been said, to the socio-educational level of families and also to who is the educational level of parents and mainly of the seas. It's funny that this young man doesn't have a single reference to this question. And neither do we understand how we can speak of premature abandonment and not question segregation or the pattern of exclusion from private and concerted schools. As you say, yes, a clear strategy from the educational policy to combat abandonment, but a strategy that has absolutely nothing to do with either the origins or the languages, a strategy that has to do with the struggle against segregation, with inclusive school and with measures that the educational community has often insisted on and we have also debated in this Parliament; a strategy, certainly, that it is not a node of ballots, with free classes of some subjects, because we believe that the solution is to look at the system in a global way and not, therefore, in such a timely way as if it were a ballot, that it is what you propose. We believe that wherever we go it is first to see how we continue the effect of the family's socio-economic and cultural capital on the risk of dropping out of school. The risk of school failure is multiplied by six in the lower socio-educational level. Therefore, reducing socio-economic inequalities impacts and has a positive impact directly on educational success. And this is where we have to work. We also plan what happens at the Institute because so many people are disconnected from the educational process, because the risk of dropping out of school is not only to be seen from the perspective of the students or families, but also to be seen what happens at the educational centres and the conditions of schooling. As the experts say, it is a comprehensive reform of the secondary school, which does not appear in the school, to personalize it, and this means lowering rates, avoiding dead lives or with less prestige; it is working in the care of families during schooling, but it is also – also – seeing what is the emotional effect of the studentship with the centre, globalizing the curriculum and reinforcing the practical elements. That's what the experts tell us, and not other things. And they also say that the agenda against abandonment must also be combined with the agenda against segregation. For this reason, it is necessary to strengthen the equitable distribution of the student with specific educational needs, which are now concentrated at 80_per_cent in public ownership centres; it is also necessary to strengthen zero-three education – we have spoken a thousand times in this Parliament about how successful education has much to see with the schools in Bressol, if there have been mainly the children and girls of the environment who are most disadvantaged; it is also necessary to eliminate the triple educational network, as I said, and I can also reverse the detail in education. I'm done. Education is the only way, as I am also convinced that we all share, to create a society that remains cohesive and with equal opportunities. Education needs to be reversed and it is listening to the educational community, which is who is marking our path, and they are telling us that what is needed is a school, an education that is public, inclusive, feminist and of quality. This is the fight against abandonment and school failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.174.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.175.0	Thank you, President. Well, this young man systematically confons concepts. What use do they make to say that Catalonia has more early school leaving than Europe? It is true that 18,9_per_cent is a given which is obviously not positive and which is below the standard proposed for the European Union for 2020, which would be 10_per_cent. But it is also true that it is inferior to other European Union countries. And as you know, lords and lords of Ciutadans, the year 2008 in Catalonia – it's not a date to pull together, obviously, nor to be proud of – was 32.9_per_cent, but in this sense we have to say that we have gone from 32.9 to 18.9. Obviously, it is not a matter of being proud of these figures, but it is true that they serve to say that what you have raised is a fallacy from the numerical and statistical point of view. Look, the young lady is making a terrible trap: she associates the school failure and repetition with the Spanish-speaking student, and that's false, because the problem is social class, that's the problem, and that's to emphasize it. The focus of all educational policy in terms of social justice and educational equity must take into account the most vulnerable student, and this is the student with scarce economic resources, not the Spanish speaking. On repetition data, tell them to use the repetition data of a show such as PISA in place of censuses, ministry data, is not of call. According to the data of the Ministry of Education, the repetition of ESO in Catalonia – nor is it to do so – is systemically inferior to the Spanish medium. It is not about the fallaç argument of the Castilian speakers. And maybe I'll stop making a big deal out of it. In this same document it is observed that repetition, in the ministry document, is systematically higher to public schools than to private schools. Therefore, it may be a matter of drawing money at the concert to invest it in public school and to compensate for this problem. Therefore, the abandonment has more to see than with the education system, as it repeated, with the system, with the model, which cannot hold young people or directly expel them. Mirin, what we need to talk about is fighting segregation, working rights, disconcerting and creating a single, public and universal school system for everyone, investing 6_per_cent, and more than school reinforcement can talk about the six-hour period and reducing rates. We do not want barracks, we want free books and all school materials and activities, but we cannot support their educational policy or distort data. And that's why we'll vote not for your young lady.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.176.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Congresswoman Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.177.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] Entering into the background of the motion, it cannot fail to surprise me that, given the gravity of the events that took place at the Autonomous University of Barcelona this afternoon, the independence groups have mentioned the name, last name, of Julian Assange, which is perhaps very close to them, and not of deputies who are in this same parliamentary chamber or who present themselves..., because they know that they are going to run for election by the Barcelona constituency. It says a lot, a lot, about how you try to cover up that reality, that it exists, and it's that the identity nationalist totalitarianisms that you bland as political ideology are the ones that we suffer those that we don't share that same ideology and that what we're trying to do is defend freedom. Because at the university, where we are going to talk, they have tried to stop us from talking, that we were going to participate in a forum on Europeanism. They have tried, they have provoked us, they have insulted us, they have threatened us, they have even assaulted comrades, but they have not succeeded. And that is their great failure: neither did they get the supposed republic nor will they be able to achieve their xenophobic purposes. And by entering the motion in question, to which we will support, there is some data that is important to remember, because while everything here revolves in the name of the people, in the name of the independence process, the truth is that in what you have competences, such as in the administration of education, your data cannot be more disastrous. Catalonia is the autonomous community with the least investment in education. Does the Government of Spain steal from us? No, it's just that you guys do things wrong. They are below the European average, but also below the Spanish average: while Spain, then, places around 5,1_per_cent of GDP in terms of investment in education, you only the 4. Whose fault is it for the evils that happen to Catalans? Of nationalism, of their umbliguism, of their eagerness to believe they know that only by blending flag and nationalist ideology will they achieve something positive for the whole citizenry. It's not like that. Bravo those who have tried today to defend freedom, respect and tolerance at the Autonomous University of Barcelona; not like you, who are silent. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.178.0	Once all the groups have intervened, it's the comeback now to position itself on the exams. Got the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra's deputy. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.179.0	Thank you, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.180.0	One moment, one moment, Congresswoman, please, that has asked for the word Mr Rodriguez. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.181.0	Yes; President, because from our disenfranchisements we feel like other Members of this House are disturbing us. And we would like to draw attention to this fact and that, if it can be, from the members of the Bureau to the attention that is going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.182.0	All right. Segueixi, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.183.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I told them it's that you really don't learn. I say to the Councillor last week: « Mr Councillor, who is mistaken, that the data I have given are not from the Calero report. For the spokesman of Esquerra Republicana and the spokesman of Junts per Catalunya, they must share adviser, and they say exactly the same, leaving it absolutely clear that they have neither read the Calero report nor listen to me when I speak. Man, be a little careful, they pay us a good salary to listen to what others say. Then they tell me: « – Where do the data come from? - From PISA. – Ah, no, it's that PISA is unreliable. Listen, for they tell the counselor, because it was the counselor who sent me these data, and I have analyzed them, and I draw these conclusions. If you don't like them, then talk to the counselor and tell him to send me other things. As I am very obedient, what the counselor sent me was what I analyzed. They tell me why we don't sign the Covenant against Segregation. For precisely because they did not want to talk about the school failure of immigrants. Then, I would ask you, instead of speaking on behalf of immigrants, of people of foreign origin, to speak with them, to see what their needs are and to see that what concerns them is the failure of their children at school. They also said that we're going out here and we don't say how we're going to pay for it. No, we demonstrated it with facts; these are things we are already doing in Andalusia. Don't you like the model? So, look, it comes from European Union funds. If they are against the European Union, then what are we going to do to it? We, as Europeanists, are the model we follow. And then I also want to make it very clear that I have not said that all separatists are fascists, of course not, but I am convinced that all Members of this House will agree with me that those who try to physically prevent by force that an act may be held in the university, those who attack, those who insult, to prevent freedom of expression, are fascists. We'll all agree on that. And then – I said it, but since they don't listen to me... –, it doesn't help me to be told that the problem is not the language but the socio-economic situation of families. When we study social cohesion in educational models, we study equity and equal opportunities...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.184.0	Congresswoman, you're done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.185.0	...that's just what you don't guarantee...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.186.0	...time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.187.0	...the Catalan school. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.188.0	We called for a vote. ( Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.) Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.189.0	Separate vote. We can do 1 and 2 for one band and 3 and 4 for the other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.190.0	1 and 2 together, 3 and 4. All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.191.0	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.192.0	Any more petitions? [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.193.0	We would ask for another block that was 5, 8, 9 and also separate point number 10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.194.0	All right. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.195.0	Yes; President, we would need 3 and 4 separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.196.0	All right. So we'll vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We'll vote points 1 and 2 together. We vote on points 1 and 2 of the motion. The vote begins. Points 1 and 2 were rejected by 63 votes to 65, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote point three. The vote begins. The third point was rejected by 39 votes to 72, with 17 abstentions. And let's move on to point four, four. The vote begins. The fourth point of this motion was rejected by 40 votes in favour, 64 against and 24 abstentions. And now we're going to vote points 5, 8 and 9– 5, 8 and 9. The vote begins. Points 5, 8 and 9 were approved by 124 votes to 4. And now we're going to vote on point 10. Point 10, yeah? The vote begins. The point was approved by 63 votes to 4, with 61 abstentions. And we're voting, now, the rest of the points of the vote. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were rejected by 63 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[302-00093/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the order of the day, which is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word of Congressman David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.197.0	Thank you, President. Counselors..., counselor, welcome. This young man wants to see again that TV3 and Catalunya Radio are an apparatus of agitation and separatist propaganda and that, moreover, therefore, they exclude, in a bold way, the majority of Catalans. And, unfortunately, we don't find it very difficult to prove it, because we have daily examples of this happening. I also want to see this motion that TV3 and Catalunya Radio distort reality, that they constantly attempt to denigrate the image of Spanish democracy and that they make a mockery of language and separatist mindset. Obviously, all this happens with the invaluable help of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia, which, in terms of its history for neutrality, impartiality and the truthfulness of public media, works as an instrument more in favour of a concrete ideology. Throughout this week, as it could not be, obviously, otherwise, we have had, again, new examples of what from Citizens we will not fail to denounce. Because TV3 manipulates; yes. Every day; yes. With every chance they have; yes. It manipulates one after another, with double-session programs dedicated to the procedural autobomb; with imputations of directors of the corporation for alleged embezzlement, prevarication and disobedience referring to October 1st; trying to point out as Machistas to constitutionalist Tertullians, such as, for example, my colleague Nacho Martín, and, thus, an endless number of examples that they seek to generate hatred for everything that can represent Spain and that try to dehumanize the dissenter, that real majority of Catalans that we want to remain Catalan, European and Spanish. That is why we will not fail to raise our voice to say 'enough and we will denounce as often as necessary the lack of plurality and neutrality of the public media that we pay all Catalans, I insist, all Catalans. We will denounce the appalling failure of these same means in providing a public service for the benefit of all Catalans, because this should be the ultimate objective of any public medium. Because using words like political prisoners, like exiles, in the news, hiding under journalistic criteria, is not to prove professionalism, but to lie in the news. This dishonest terminology which has become official, painfully, in the public chain and which does not conform to the criterion of informational truthfulness. Instead of seeking informational and journalistic interest, what they seek is ideological interest and self-interest. And, yes, we will continue to be firm, from Citizens, defending plural media and outside ideological sectarianism, because public media cannot be a leash of separatism transmission. That is why we also ask that the president in office of the corporation and the president of the CAC come to the parliamentary seat, that is why and why we want to ask you here, which is where your posts are approved, why they do not pay attention to the judicial decisions of the Constitutional Court, for example, and yes to the guidelines given to them by the Government, because TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio have wanted, with their editorial line, to exclude the majority of Catalans. The telepreachers of the process have become habitual in the daily grill, Mrs Rahola, Mr Toni Soler, and so on a longetcetera, have made the real majority of Catalans have to pay out of our pocket that we are insulted not to defend the rupture of our own coexistence. We do not want telepreachers or teleprocesses, what we want is plurality, neutrality and journalistic objectivity. So we will continue to denounce the times when these principles are needed until we get quality media and public television and for the whole of Catalan society. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.198.0	Thank you, Mr. Mejía. It has the word now, to defend the papers presented by the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress, the deputy David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.199.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. The honourable Member will advise, indeed, to the question of Ciutadans, the other day, which Nacho Martín made, is obvious the lack of plurality, fairness and neutrality of public media. Indeed, they are neither plural nor equitable. The later plurality report actually says that TV3 and Catalunya Radio are mediums with more diversity of voices, and that's it. But the media are very different or you see them very different, it doesn't mean they are plural, because, for reasons of plurality, there has to be a certain balance between the different ways of seeing things. And this same report said that 83 percent of the people who participate in these third parties have an independent view and the same goes, exactly the same way, to Catalonia Radio. The counselor said that, "in any case, we have been leaders for twenty months, and that is actually the case. But who is this public? This is a drama – this is a drama. The CEO has a date that is demolishing, it had never happened – it had never happened. When the tripartite was governed, TV3 was the first channel for both the people that it is independentist and for which it is not independentist. It's been a while since TV3 stopped being the first channel for people who aren't independent in this country. And the CEO's data, two days ago, say that TV3 is no longer the first, nor the second, nor the third, nor the fourth; at this time, the people who are not independenceist in this country see, first, the Sixth, Antenna 3, Spanish Television, Telecinco before TV3. This time, counselor, it is demolishing and it had never happened, and exactly the same goes to radio; the people who are not independentist listen to the SER, listen RAC1– RAC1 has the triple of people who are not independent that Catalunya Radio –, listen to COPE, listen to National Radio and, in five places, Catalonia Radio. We're not doing well – we're not doing well. We can't say that radio and television are all perfect and everything is doing very well. We are aware and we must recognize that both TV3 and Catalunya Radio, there are things that are very good, that there are great professionals, but we must also say that it is not all a disaster and a calamity, but there are things that can be better done. And, therefore, what we need to do is to improve it, is to correct it and, therefore, this building spirit is what our parliamentary group has and, in this sense, they will always find us... We did not like the motion presented by the Ciutadans Group, we aimed to correct above all the whole, the language of all points and I believe that this spirit of improving the corporation does not have to start with a language of permanent confrontation..., of everything to be done. In short, and therefore, we have submitted papers, accepted these papers, and we will therefore vote in favour of those points of which the papers have been accepted, or we have managed to deal with them, and we will abstain at point 8, which we have not reached an agreement. And, in any case, also, to finish, I insist, there are things that are going to get better on TV3 as well as Catalunya Radio. We are not alone and exclusively with the hearing index, we have told the committee – we have said this – that the hearing will be over and the hearings will be lowered. This will happen and, therefore, what we have to do is start working already because the public as much TV3 as in Catalonia Radio is every time bigger, is every time more plural. And, Counselor, at this point, it's not. Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.200.0	Thank you, Mr. Perez. Next, in order to fix her position, the first word is Mrs Marta Ribas, on behalf of the Catalan Parliamentary Group in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.201.0	Good afternoon. This is a debate of déjà-vu, of those themes in which Ciutadans enter a loop. They made one motion of criticism and attack on TV3 and Catalunya Radio in disembarkation, at the Ple; another one, one_month ago and, now, another. The disembarkation, they made it to gesticulate and cover that they had just closed a Frankenstein agreement with Junts for Catalonia, Esquerra and Socialists to renew the Corporate Governance Council, with pacts to lay off. March's, I guess they made it clear they'd already dissociated themselves from that agreement. And now, I suppose by electoral profitability, with a campaign that starts this middle of the night. Look, I'll work with you, I'll work with you on this already and I'll tell you exactly the same thing that I said to you in disembarkation, that I told you in March and that I'll now repeat it again, and it's reading to you what the professionals of these public communication media have been doing to us, through manifest approval by the Assembly of TV3 and Catalunya Radio Workers and Workers a few months ago, and telling us: "During the last few years, the corporation has suffered the internal wars of the government parties and the virulent attacks on the part of parliamentary opposition. This pressure – one and the other – "damages the credibility of television and public radio and has to end. In that same manifesto, they also made it clear to us that the government's responsibility for corporate media since 2009 is that there is no program. This makes them dependent on a constant negotiation of resources with the government and, as you know – women know very well – economic dependence also ends up becoming a much larger dependence, in this case, a political dependency. Also this political influence of the Government is to the effects of a direction that responds more to the parties that have put them there than to the task that they need to develop, because they have been elected from a change that was made from the Law of the Corporation, that reduced the majority to choose the governing council of the Corporation and that has allowed people to say, elected by parties. To change this political dependence on our public media from determined parties that are ruling, what is it? Can we continue to use public communication media as the trigger and electoral weapon, as they do with their Citizens' motions? So no. What it is to agile the law that we are dealing with in this Parliament in order to be able to renew the governing bodies of the corporation, now, with qualified majorities, therefore, to make it more independent of party interests and with mechanisms that guarantee criteria of professionalism. As soon as possible a program contract between the government and the corporation to guarantee the real economic autonomy of the public communication media respects the government. Catalans and Catalans don't deserve to continue playing with our public media in this way; means that are used to guarantee a right of citizenship, which is the right to information. And that's what a Member of Parliament has been saying for years, criticizing and complaining about the general misguidedness that has taken over the information and the vision that is shown, especially in third parties and in some programming, on a large part of our public media. As shown, these data that were previously expressed by the CEO, that had also appeared in the Generality barometer and that tell us that TV3 sees an 80_percent of the citizenry that said they voted independent parties but only 15_percent of the voters of Ciutadans, Socialists or the People's Party. And that means that we're making a television that every time is less country – and it's not about language. But to translate this circumstance of wanting our public media to be better at a report than basically what it does is to attack professionals directly or generate a report that allows us to question the existence of public communication media itself is wrong, it is a disaster. And we're out of line. And, therefore, we will vote against this motion from Ciutadans. Certainly, voting for certain points of this motion as the Socialist Group will believe is not the best way to defend public communication media. Clearly, today it may be consistent with what you are also doing to the rest of the State, when Mr. Pedro Sánchez has decided not to bet on the public service of Spanish Television at the time of election debates, and in exchange for doing so in the debate that was offered to him from Spanish Television, complementing the LOREG, bet to go on a private television debate where they give space to an extra-parliamentary group. It's not like defending public communication media, it's not like defending the right to citizen information. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.202.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, of the MP Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.203.0	Good afternoon. They will be there again; they will be listening to this constant hostility. I, each time – each time – the little rigor is deepened, fixed. I'm not going to go in on this young man, but fix it, and the third point is brutal. And ask them to please explain to me when they saw this on TV3. Could be, huh? I don't doubt it. Jo, I watch TV3, I've never seen him. He says that, using all sorts of topics on the language – he speaks –, he does all kinds of atticic topics that have nothing to do with reality..., with examples such as the use of simultaneous translation to make a live interview to a Spanish-speaking interviewee. I've never seen him before. I'm being explained and shared, please. Second, his hostility... that the hostility you raise, the PP, in relation to public media, does not carry the warning. This young man won't approve. And you know why he won't approve? For the same reason that today Mrs. Inés Arrimadas is not president of the Government of the Generality, because they did not win the elections and because there are some democrats who are not willing to endure this constant lack of respect for the professionals of public television. That's why this young man won't approve. Because they're serving their thirty-six deputies to waste our time. And that, as I used to say, is denigrating. I thought there would be Mrs. Inés Arrimadas, and thinking about what would be her last moment, her last Ple – which we don't know – because she was precisely in Madrid, because precisely the defeat like the president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, because she can't add majorities, neither to think public media..., dedicate a small sign to her too, which was also dedicated to the lords of the PP : today, to the Autonomous, the candidate of the Congress of the Deputies of Barcelona, next to a raised arm, a fetishist symbol. That's what we condemn and what SEPC companies have condemned in this fascist act. [[applause]] That whitening you and the organization is over! And it's more, talking about public media, and with all the concern, we're coming in and we're serving this phony because we're worried that TV3 today, speaking of this news, has precisely cut this arm up. The lady Levy said: "Woe to those who have defended...Woe to those Nazis..., who are passing through public universities and who no one condemns. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.204.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's Mrs. Hope Garcia's return now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.205.0	Well, TV3 and Catalunya Radio are spreading hyspanofóbic hatred. This is a reality, it's not an issue of opinion. And just so you know, the fact that you're so excited about independence, you're so excited about TV3, it's proven to be in this House, isn't it? The independents love them, so does the CEO, so does this Ple. And the non-separatists, because they insult us, they don't like us. And we don't like it because we pay more among all Catalans. First, spread odi hispanofóbic. Secondly, it generates and is a generation of public opinion that is directed and directed against more than half the Catalan population that disagrees with the project of political separatism, that does not swallow, does not overcome the dogmas of political separatism. Before yesterday, TV3 and Catalunya Radio officials were re-accused. It's the second time this happens. And it goes so that judicial resolutions are incomplete, that they are corrupt and complete public. And this reality is because you are serving the money of all and the public media of all to make your political campaign. Already the announcement that since the People's Party we have presented a battery of questions to know exactly what the cost is and who is paying for the process representation and the technical legal direction of these biimputations. It seems that the leaders of TV3 and Catalunya Radio..., the strategy so fantastic that it brought them last week to the ridiculous "pilitic prisoners" is designed by Mr Cordill. But they won't get mixed up, they won't get mixed up with this. We announced that we would vote practically in favour of the whole motion, except for two points. The first one, the point number 7, because Mrs. Llorach's appearance has already been made. In fact, he answered the same questions that I had about this young man, with whom we don't understand what the control session is for if they then present here a young man with three questions that we have already done at this control session. And we will not vote for the last point either; among other things, because it is true that it does not rain as much as a ple ask for appearances, we agree that Mr. Lopacher must come here, but this is done with a request for appearance, it is presented to the Registry. And we've already done it, and that's why we won't give it up. The rest, obviously.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.206.0	And now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Raquel Sans has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.207.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor... today we are debating another motion that refers to the Catalan Corporation of Mitjans. Gentlemen of Ciutadans, they're not original people. We have already made clear which are his obsessions: the Catalan school, the language, the Mossos, the color groc and TV3. You know, you're attacking public television in this country. « Cold for Sánchez to follow, the president of his party, Mr. Rivera, threatened the director of TV3 on the other day. And there are constant and repeated threats of application of Article 155 to Catalan public media; they are being targeted. A young woman who, hard to tell us, will count on the support of the PSC, who has brought there some elements that have made up a bit of the text, but that have not changed the background of this young man. And, before the foundation of the motion, today they again use terms such as neutrality and plurality. And I have the feeling that you match these terms to explain only what you want, what you like and how you like them. If they do not want to explain that there are political prisoners or people in exile – certainly, two terms recognized for international law and that journalists use in their free exercise of the profession – the problem is yours, because in the background that worries them is to explain the shame that we are living in this country. Because when they talk about neutrality, I imagine they have to talk about interviewing the leader of their party, the leader of the list of their party, on a day of reflection, as did the ABC newspaper in the past elections. Or when they speak of plurality I would like to ask if they speak, for example, of the program of Mr. Bertín Osborne interviewing Casado, Rivera and Abascal. I suppose that's what you mean by political pluralism. This is the neutrality and plurality that you defend. In this case, they insist on remembering that the electoral board has banned, as was the case in the previous campaign, the use of expressions such as political prisoners, exiles or judicial repression. And you come up with this prohibition. They celebrate that the judges can dictate what the journalists have to say; they love to judicialize everything. They've already brought politics to justice, and now, therefore, it's the press. An election board that certainly forbids TV3 from talking about political prisoners, but which, on the other hand, is perfectly compatible with this neutrality that the party of the other Vox is campaigning using this farce judgment. Sense doubt, a double measuring rod. This is his neutrality. And speak again of understatement to the linguistic plurality of the country. Mirin, just one point: in the city on visc, in Tarragona, we can tune forty-three channels of TDT. Of these, only eleven are in Catalan. And here I include from TV3 to TV3 in high definition, and through TAC12– for those who don't know, the public television at Camp de Tarragona. Eleven of forty-three. And 85 percent of the television you see in this country is in the castle. Do they really care about the linguistic plurality of this country? If the català isn't on TV3, they'll explain to me where. They also illustrate the use of simultaneous translation to the castle in face-to-face, don't they? in the interview, in which the mayor of Medellín participated, the year passed, in the program FAQS. We have not spoken of this; we have not spoken in this House, nor have we spoken in the Corporate Control Committee. But let's go back! Now I could tell you that TV3 interviews of Spanish-speaking people are fan in the castle, and that in this case the translation was used because it was face to face. But you know that, you know it perfectly well. As they also know the multiple reports prepared for ACC that point out that the public media in this country are the most plural. And speaking of the ACC, there's a lot of other curiosities in this young man. They propose to repudiate, for example, Councillor Salvador Alsius – a journalist of recognizable trajectory and no party link – because, according to them, these advisors..., is one of the advisers who block reming the ideological intervention of the corporation. Just one question: the defense of this neutrality that has to do it, Mr. Daniel Sirera, former registrar, former deputy, ex-senator and former-no-se-quant-things-me of the Popular Party, or perhaps Mrs. Eva Parera, who goes from number four to Manuel Valls' list to the elections for Barcelona? That's to say, why do I understand it: to campaign with Ciutadans while charging..., as you say? , a «solvent?........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... , of EUR 106,000, this is very neutral and it sure ensures that there is no ideological intervention in the media. You're asking for disapproval of advisors who don't think like you. This is his neutrality. And finally, taking advantage of this young man's fortune, do you know what concerns us about the corporation? That the template is enveloped, that the middle age of the workers is fifty-four years, that between 2010 and 2018 it has produced a 16_per_cent reduction of the template because of the retirements. These are the questions that concern us. And, therefore, we will vote against this young man. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.208.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, of Mr Josep Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.209.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, counselor, MPs, MPs, before we ask ourselves about the content of this young man we should ask ourselves how a young man like this can be perpetrated, which is the same as asking us how it can be passed from the usual disproposal in his motions about public media to today's delir. What has happened is obvious, and also worrying: the increasing factor of the electoral campaign has been applied, more destructive, more agile. The acceptance of the SCP papers served to fine-tune the text, but in the sense that the prosecution fine-tunes the issues that are of interest to its political friends: only in form, not in the background. The background is exactly the same, and that tells us a few things. One, which unfortunately the PSC has bought Ciutadans' incendiary report on the Catalan public media. Another, which already looks like an early scener of the longing pact between Sanchez and Rivera to rule Spain. And a third thing, too, tells us: that Ciutadans and the PSC have a common front in the political persecution of the Catalan public media. Because, from the beginning to the end, in this young man there is political persecution of the leaders of TV3 and Catalunya Radio; there is political persecution of the professionals and collaborators of these media; there is political persecution of the president in function of the corporation, and there is political persecution of certain members of the Council of the Audiovisual. They are not letting anyone pursue, or yes – and the company said so –: curiously, a member of the CAC, as is Mrs Eva Parera, who in the exercise of the carrec is making political campaign as a member of the list of Ciutadans at the Assembly of Barcelona. The only person in the media and his or her control bodies who explicitly does politics, you don't bother them. From the content of the motion it is easy to beat everything they propose to it; in fact, everything they treat to it has already been defeated in the Corporate Control Commission, even in this House, because it's all recurring. Some examples are from the past October, such as what you present as an interview – and in reality it was a debate or a face-to-face – which was done scrupulously following what marks the book of style. In point 2 they find that TV3 dehumanizes the constitutionalists. The original text was so shameful that the term "dehumanizing" disappeared with the SCP, but it was then used here. But can you really talk about dehumanizing, you, who said that political prisoners were in Lledoners prison like in a hotel in the Carib with the wristband of everything included? (Applause.) You, who have said that the democrats who are feeling jutjats« here are very chickens, but before the judge they fall down? You don't even look at the faces of the prisoners' relatives the day they're invited to the rostrum from here? You, that in very few exceptions did not even applaud Congresswoman Jenn Díaz the day she revealed that she had suffered abuse? (Whispering) Leave him here – leave him here. Point 3. To the use of language I have already mentioned: perfectly as mark the book of style. Point 4: the use of political prisoners and exiles and political prisoners. Look, the penalty is that due to his constant pressure on the media, he gave the case that with the best professional performance of TV3 and Catalunya Radio used these terms when you have forced the ban via the Central Electoral Board. His targeting of the Catalan media professionals had already activated pre-emptive censorship! This is the sad and unfortunate reality. And about neutrality, I've already talked to them about Eva Parera's case and there's no more comment. And about audiences, which Mr. Pérez said..., you don't cheat: comparisons don't do them when the TV map wasn't as fragmented as there are so many placards and it's very different from the picture. And, finally, he asks for the appearance of the president of the ACC and the president in office of the corporation. Why? To hold another area of electoral propaganda. Because the fact is that the reasons they're claiming have already been clarified repeatedly to the Corporation Control Commission. Both appear on time, or, in the case of Ms. Llorach, on each control committee. In the last committee, you've been selling, Mrs. Llorach answered 30 questions. Does that sound a little bit like it? And, finally, I say to them the same as other times: what doesn't please you all is not TV3 or Catalunya Radio, it's the country, it's how it has changed this country, because TV3 and Catalonia Radio simply reflect how it has changed this country in the last few years. And now I'm done. To vote in favour of this motion means not only to validate Ciutadans' attitude to the Catalan public media, but also to endorse his arsonist way of doing politics. And, obviously, we're never here. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.210.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers has a turn now the deputy Mr David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.211.0	Thank you, President. To position myself on the issues, tell the Socialist Party, therefore, that we have come to great agreement and we have been able to deal to make the young man a little wider. As far as Congresswoman Ribas is concerned, she's telling us we're heavyweights, aren't we? , speaking of public communication media, so yes, we will not tire of denouncing the lack of plurality, because it has not changed anything with the last few months. Therefore, we will continue to present as many motions as we need, until we guarantee public media of quality and plurality. We already know that you take the language of separatist parties and that they are the crux of separatism, but we are not. With regard to the Member of the CUP, he told us that we set them a concrete example of simultaneous translation. So look, I'll put it there very easily and, if you want, then I'll pass it on: the former mayor of Medellín, the candidate for the presidency of the Republic of Colombia; we saw with shame alien how needed simultaneous translator to be able to hear what the presenter was saying. Certainly, you, I suppose as you see so much TV3 and are in this parallel reality, aren't you? And in this distorted reality, so they don't know or they don't remember that Ciutadans won the election. Then again, in any case, I'll pass the results, since that was it. Then, Republican Left says that Mr. Rivera said that he "prayed that he would not follow Sanchez." So yes, I did so because I didn't follow Sanchez, because I'm going to run out of the "do what they want with TV and the rest of the institutions. With respect to the ACC, what do they want? If it's a little bit more than the process! If they are you, those who do their studies and approve them with the President's quality vote! That's why it's hard and hard. Definitely and finally, the recommendations, to the Frequently Asked Questions, in the example that we have set of the mayor of Medellín...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.212.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.213.0	...to use a new hashtag for Mr. Torra to be rich and xinifibi. That's how you see...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.214.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.215.0	...what freedom of speech there is. [[Greetings. Esperanza García González asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.216.0	Congresswoman, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.217.0	Yes, President, for clear allusions of the... yes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.218.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.219.0	All right, perfect. [[Widow's remorse.]] Look, ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.220.0	Please, shut up, everybody!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.221.0	Tell the MP of the UPC that the People's Party will always find us with the arm and the firm eye to defend freedom and democracy; that it is never – ever – produced like the ones that occurred today in the Autonomous Region, where no one has been able to defend their ideas for people like their Arran companies, totalitarians, that make deputies of this chamber to be escorted into a democracy!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.222.0	Mr. Pérez, why ask me the word? [[Pause.]] Forward. Thirty seconds, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.223.0	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Widow's remorse.]] Actually, we're...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.224.0	Quiet! Mr. Rodriguez... Mr. Rodriguez, the cry to order. [[Widow's remorse.]] He's calling the order again. If you keep this up, I'll have to take it out. [[Pause.]] Out, out of the hemicicle, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Santi Rodríguez i Serra intervenes without using the microphone.]] Please, Mr. Rodriguez, leave the hemicicle. [[Santi Rodríguez i Serra leaves the Session Hall.]] Thank you. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Say'm, sir... [[Widow's remorse.]] Calm down, everybody, please, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.225.0	On a point of order, Mr President. It is intolerable that in this Chamber a group that supports those who harass us, insult us and break our seats insults other fellow Members in this Chamber and is expelled from the insulted comrades. It's outrageous! It's outrageous! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.226.0	I didn't, Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.227.0	Mr President, we are trying to negotiate a statement of condemnation of the acts of the UAB, and here there are parties that do not want to condemn it because they are the instigators of aggression. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.228.0	Prou, Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.229.0	And it's unfortunate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.230.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.231.0	...it's unfortunate, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.232.0	I've already given him 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.233.0	... it is unfortunate that you expelled the fellow Member insulted by the fascists! [[You're saying, "Very good! The applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.234.0	Mr. Carrizosa... Mr. Carrizosa, the cry to order. Way to go! [[The applause continues.]] Pretty much everyone. Sir... (Nattalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.) Tell me, Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.235.0	Well, for allusions both of the People's Party Group, as I understand now, of the Lords of Ciutadans. Mirin, we have learned today that fascism kills and that, after his death, the only compromise we can have with democracy is anti-physisism, militant anti-physisism and clarity. (Applause.) And fix yourself...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.236.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.237.0	...you today, fix yourself, and to the fact I refer you – and I finish, President, and I thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.238.0	Yeah, I was just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.239.0	... his patience –, what they defend is this raised arm (the speaker shows an image), a raised arm that has seen him everyone, today: Nazis next to Mrs Cayetana, leader of the list of the People's Party at the Spanish Congress. You, with your vehemence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.240.0	Mrs. Sanchez, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.241.0	... closed – I finish – is defending this arm...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.242.0	Time's up, you don't have the word. Mrs. Sànchez, thank you. (Applause.) Had asked, for allusions, the... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.243.0	Mr President, this afternoon a fellow Member of ours was attacked, a fellow Member of ours was blindfolded on an ankle by the kicks and stompings inflicted on them by the friends of these Members who were now insulting another fellow Member. We don't think... it's just that I think there's little more to comment on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.244.0	Mr. Carrizosa, so it's gone, there's nothing else. It's over. Mr. Perez – he had asked for allusions – when he wanted to. [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.245.0	Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.246.0	If it's about the same we won't get into a debate, Mr. Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.247.0	What?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.248.0	No, I'm not telling you, I'm telling Mr. Pujol. You're on your way, Mr. Perez. (Laughter.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.249.0	Puck, President? Yes, indeed, the best value of this democracy and this Parliament is respect, and the dialogue, and negotiation and the pact. And we have agreed with Citizens – because after Citizens say that we only deal with others – and yesterday we have agreed with Left and Together for Catalonia, and we have also agreed with the CUP, because what this Parliament needs is the dialogue, the negotiation and the pact, as we have also done in this young man. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.250.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. (Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.) Mr. Pujol, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.251.0	For a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.252.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.253.0	I want to make it clear that good attitudes and good ways are practiced. I can't make big hand movements...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.254.0	Mr. Pujol, don't... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.255.0	...you don't have to make big hand movements talking...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.256.0	Shut up, everybody. I gave it to Mr. Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.257.0	I've asked for the word a few times and it seems to me that I have right to use it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.258.0	Say – say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.259.0	There was a Member who at the end of his speech made a hashtag with very little thanks and who came to refer to 'racist and xenophobic'. It's not the way to show a good attitude in this room. And we, out of respect and in order not to embolize the exchange, have made silence. What we can't afford is to keep quiet when some convert the tavern show... into this Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.260.0	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Wagensberg, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.261.0	Yes, President. No one has been insulted here, as was said by Mr Carrizosa, nor has anyone been fooled, as was said by Mr Santi...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.262.0	Excuse me, why ask me the word, Mr. Wagensberg, that you didn't tell me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.263.0	For a point of order, and also for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.264.0	No, sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.265.0	When they... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.266.0	Shut up, everybody! [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Quiet! Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.267.0	For allusions, because Mr. Santi Rodríguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.268.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.269.0	Mr. Santi Rodríguez has asked for a point of order that we were incoherent here, now Mr. Carrizosa has said that we were insulting here... I just want to say publicly here that it just happened that when Mrs. Levy referred to the people who were incoherent today... the only thing we did was ask if she also referred to those people who raised her arm doing fascist greetings...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.270.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.271.0	...just that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.272.0	In any case, when the debate is closed, we shall proceed to vote on the motion. No questions, I understand, separate vote? [[Pause.]] Miss... yes, Miss Granados. So yes; I thought I'd already announce the vote, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.273.0	Yes, point 8, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.274.0	We'll vote, then, on the motion... I'm sorry, Mrs. Granados, no, no... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Eight, I'm sorry. We vote, so, first point 8, huh? – We vote on point 8. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We called for a vote, didn't we? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes; what happens is that then there was all the debate, but we called for a vote. Anyway, if it looks like it, the fem [[sound the acoustic signal to call a vote]] And let's leave thirty seconds, despite the fact that we've already made the call for a vote. [[Pause.]] Well, let's get to the vote. Let's vote first on the 8th point of this young man. The vote begins. The eighth point was rejected by 37 votes to 70, with 17 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 54 votes in favour, 69 against and 1 abstention. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the Government's visit to Catalan participation in colonialism and slavery]] [[302-00094/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the Government's visit to Catalan participation in colonialism and slavery, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Ferran Civit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.275.0	Thank you, President. First of all, we hope that the condemnation of colonialism and slavery will generate more consensus than the condemnation of fascism, which we have seen in this chamber at a later stage... we have not enjoyed it at all. I take this opportunity to say, first of all: free Assange; free Oriol Junqueras, today on its 50th anniversary, and back off the glove of MP Nattalia Sánchez, therefore, who recalled Guillem Aguló, assassinated by fascism, which is indirectly an inheritance of colonialism, which is the supremacism of considering that there are people superior to another. Also take advantage to greet the people of the Philippines, Guam, the Mariana Islands, the Carolines and Palau Islands, the Espuga del Francolí, the Western Sahara, Morocco, Equatorial Guinea, Fernando Poo, the United States, Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia, Venice, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Paraguay, Argentina, Xile, Uruguay, Cuba, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, ancient colonies of the Spanish Empire. Because imperialism everyone practiced it, but not everyone stayed the same way, afterward. This same week, in Belgium, he apologized because more than twenty thousand children were literally kidnapped from the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi. After..., the year 2016, for example, Justin Trudeau also apologized for having participated in colonialism; in 2013, David Cameron apologized both to India and to Kenya. Because, and that's what Counsellor Bosch said at the time... President Obrador, we picked up the glove. We thank him, first, because his country welcomed those fleeing fascism, but also because he is now asking us to be better, recognizing our mistakes. And one mistake was colonialism, imperialism and slavery. Catalonia wants to apologize to its people, to its continent, to all the descendants of those who suffered humiliation, torture and death. And it took us a long time to do it, but today we do it. We want to ask forgiveness for the Catalan participation in the suffering provoked, with Spanish imperialism, to the citizenry that forms part of these ancient Spanish colonies..., to its ancestors who suffered colonialism and slavery by citizens of Catalonia. We want to apologize to you from this Parliament for actions committed by our ancestors over your ancestors; that is why we are here. Descendants of colonial exploitation, imperialism and slavery. As descendants of those explorers we want to apologize to you. We cannot repair what they did, but if we say that what they did was not right and should never be repeated. Some broke the physical chains, today we, here in Catalonia, break the mental chains and condemn slavery and imperialism. And the same way I can say in the castle, I can also say in some of the languages, better or worse, that they suffered persecution for colonialism, such as Arabic, Amazic, Quetxua, Amara, Mapudungun, and I would give up hundreds and hundreds more. Catalonia sitipxaruxa mayt'apxsmawa p'amp'acht'apxitaya sasina kuna jisk'achawinakata ukhamarak t'aqhisiwinakata. I also love Catalonia Illipun d'enguñ pen my awünguellan faiche awün my fai colonialism kai enslavement. Catalonia llaqtap sutinpi apologias ñisqata mañayku, phutiypi ñakaypi colonialism ñisqapi yanajina kawsakusqanrayku. We're in Katalunia before asmah'x u3eddeb and dawe isherqen s tamharsa d temsaklit. S yesm n midden n Catalunya nssutrawn adagh tsamham gif umarrat n asdurriy d vallaz. Bi ismi al-cha3b Catalunya atlub mincum al-i3tidaar min aljl maa 3anaytuh min dolm bi sabab al-sti3lmar wa al-3ubudiyya. Catalonia apologizes for the suffering suffered, for having participated in colonialism and slavery. I don't know if the Spanish State will apologize or not, but we have to do it. It is an obligation that we have as a society to leave a better country, a better future and apologize for the hardships that are at stake and, above all, to face the future with dignity, because also, colonialism, today, still suffers. I can't go far enough to see how many of these languages I've read, in many of their countries, are still not official, are being chased. In many of these countries, when you have a baby you can't enter it in the language with which they have educated you – in the language with which they have educated you – in your mother tongue; and that's very hard, and that's colonialism. And that does not mean the economic situation in which many of these countries are found. Not to read classics with the open veins of Latin America but you can read Daron Acemoğlu to know why some countries fail today. And, if not – just to recommend it already, as the important thing is to learn... –, the recommendation also to vagrate at the Maritime Museum of Barcelona, that there is an exhibition that is said « Catalunya sea there: three centuries of Catalan navy, because, effectively, we had traded with sugar, we had traded with TVs but we also had traded with slaves. And with sugar and TVs, we always trade there, but with slaves, never more. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.276.0	Thank you, Mr. Civit. I understand that this part of the transcript... this is going to be transferred to the chamber service, isn't it? Thank you very much. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you, Mr. Civit. To defend the papers presented, the deputy Susanna Segovia, on behalf of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.277.0	Well, good afternoon. So yes, as the president of Mexico reminded us before and as we remember, or should we remember, every 12 October Spain and Catalonia still have a long way to go in repairing the recognition of the events that have taken place, to which someone still says "discovery of America", and in their involvement in slavery and trafficking. In Llatina America, October 12th is more like the cry of the outcasts. Reconnaissance repair that goes by excuses – yes, by excuses – that can be asked in many idioms, but that should also be accompanied by the revision of textbooks of school texts, for example; the withdrawal of Slavist and Francoist symbols of the nouns and public spaces, as the Barcelona Assembly did with the statue of Antonio López; symbols that we can find – and significantly – all Catalonia. It is important to recognize and repair the leading role of Catalonia in the shameful triangulation of slavery between America and Africa, and also it is important to wonder how, with that, some of the great fortunes that still today want to lead and lead – and they want to try to do so for a long time – the future of this country. But we also have to go further and we have to try not to be hypocrites and recognize that colonialism and slavery are still present with new forms, some still with the ancients. I will quote Eduardo Galeano and the open veins of Latin America, because I believe that for many of the people that we have worked and have had a trajectory with America Llatina is a book of capçalera, that we would surely have to read and have included, precisely, in the educational programs of the Catalan school. "Our region of the world, which today we call Latin America, was early, specialized in losing. It continues to exist at the service of the needs of others, as source and reserve of oil and iron, copper and meat, fruits and coffee, raw materials and food destined for rich countries, who earn by consuming much more than Latin America earns by producing them. Regrettably, today, the failure of human rights on the part of a few companies, the trafficking of people into forced prostitution – and we are very aware of Lily's death, that all of us feel absolutely helpless about the incapacity we have to deal with it – and the interinternship working relationships that are incomplete in ILO convention 189 are perpetual colonialism and slavery. Gas Natural, without going far enough, was implanted in 2013 in Guajaca to build the world's largest wind farm and has caused high environmental impacts and severe violations of rights to the indigenous population. An investigation by the BBC revealed, in 2016, that Mango was exploiting Syrian refugees at factories in Turkey; working days were eternally changing from a wage of misery, much lower than that set by the Turkish minimum wage, and often without security measures. The company Grup Terminal de Contenitors de Barcelona was also denounced to Buenaventura, Colombia, for violations of rights to the population. And here, in Catalonia, more than two years ago in this Parliament, a resolution was adopted to create a centre for assessing the impacts of Catalan companies abroad, which still do not know anything about it, has not yet advanced in this. We are moving forward in cooperation, we are talking about solidarity, but we are talking very little and we are implementing very little coherence in the policies of the Government of Catalonia and this Parliament. It is very difficult to talk about cooperation, solidarity, justice and transformation if with another hand, with the companies that are abroad, we will turn right. That is why we believe that we need to go beyond apologies and that we need to age to eliminate these new forms of colonialism that perpetuate unequal rules of power. In this line was the message that we presented and that was accepted. Let us hope, therefore, that it will not happen – so far – and that, indeed, at the length of this 2019 we can already have a tool that ensures that Catalan companies complement the standards of human rights here and everywhere, and that, with the consent of all groups, Catalonia is an actor who actively fights against all forms of neo-colonialism and trafficking of people. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.278.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix his position, the deputy Matías Alonso has the word on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.279.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Councillor, we are faced with a motion that follows the strategy shared by Esquerra with the most reactionary and corrupt right of Spain, to attack the foundations of our democracy by all means. Spain, in the separatist eyes, in its shared strategy, is the worst of the worst. For you the worst for all humanity is the mere existence of Spain as a national reality of which Catalonia is and has always been a consubstantial part. You are experts at seeing straw in the eye of others; that eye you are not willing to recognize as your own and you prefer to remove, while fastening the beam in the eye you recognize as your own. That is where this motion goes, it is that of the Catalans we have been the main operators in the slave trade business during the Spanish colonial period, but everything was a consequence of our status as members of the colonial empire. Another reason you want to cling to is to leave by the legs of one of the nations that you have written – with lights and shadows, of course – many of the main pages of the history of humanity, especially in modern and contemporary times; with lights and shadows, of course. But you follow a clear strategy: to maintain the unsustainable fallacy that Spain has written the most perfidious and cruel pages in the history of humanity. In his eyes Spain has to ask for forgiveness, even if it is only because it exists. The Parliament is not a congress of the Nova História Institute. I do not know whether in the drafting of the motion they have had the support of the enlightened guard in that institution, which lives at the expense of all of us. In any case, we're facing a smoky one. If you look at the past, don't stop looking at the lights. It is simply deliating the manicheism with which you separatists, with the invaluable collaboration of Podemos many times, intend to judge the history of Spain. In your eagerness to denounce our country, you forget that in the main universities of the world, when the origins of the defense of human rights are explained, some of the great authors who are taught are Spanish, such as Francisco de Vitoria and the School of Salamanca, or Fra Bartolomé de las Casas. Hence, for someone with minimal knowledge it is so ridiculous that you intend to denigrate the image of our country. History is what it is, and unfortunately it has been written on too many occasions with blood, almost always with innocent blood. Most of the human species have lived throughout history outside the humanitarian conception of today. It should be recalled that the first serious attempts to proclaim the existence of human rights came at the end of the 18th century and did not reflect their universality. It should be remembered that the Spanish Constitution of 1812, the liberal Constitution, placed Spain at the height of the most advanced nations in the field of civil and political rights; that this Constitution inspired many of the first European constitutions and the constitutions of the former Spanish colonies, and that it was considered by many to be the quintessence of the liberal ideals arising from the French Revolution. It should also be recalled that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights dates back to 1948, after the most horrendous of wars that mankind has experienced to date. To look today at the men who in the past forged our history with the vision of the twenty-first century, after having lived the longest period of peace, prosperity and well-being as a nation is as unfair as it is useless. We know that its main interest is to stir up the black legend, to denounce Spain by all means. And they do so without looking into the eyes of those responsible that still today human rights are not respected in some of the former overseas provinces, of which they were Spanish colonies; some colonies in which the indigenous people were respected much more than in the colonies of the European powers that have attenuated that black legend throughout history. But you still do not look into the satraps of the Cuban dictatorship or Maduro, the Venezuelan tyrant, whom you have explicitly supported in this Parliament. Finally, given the wording of the motion, in which they have included a transaction with Catalonia in Comú Puem, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group will only vote in favour of item 6, so do not count on us to support its strategy of attack on the nation. We will not support any of your attempts at involution, neither today nor ever. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.280.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the return of Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.281.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillor, Members and Members, it is certain that he is – we already understand with the question – a motion that, like at least, deserves a debate is that I do not know if it is possible to make interventions like we have and also that we should seek to disregard the partisan confrontation as far as possible. I know it is very difficult to do, but it seems to us that repeated requests, many years long, for the people from areas that had been colonized by European powers deserve something more than a partisan confrontation here or in other parliaments. It seems to us that their requests deserve to be unravelled texts and have a debate as rigorously as possible in historiographical terms, also in terms that historiography takes into account and which was mentioned by the speaker who preceded me in the use of the word, who has to see with the treatment of projecting a current look at historical facts that are paid a long time ago. But this, in the historical debate, has all the meaning, in order to avoid making a history analysis of contexts that are not actually the current ones, I think it has to be considered with the fact that the effects of colonization are still present in all the territories that were once colonized by European powers, follow, let us say, the colonization that began more than five hundred years ago, of the Americas, or other processes of colonization more recent, "Regnononics, etc. The fact is that it is undeniable that the European colonization of the Americas, Africa or Asia has had catastrophic consequences for the peoples who reside there and who have been dominated, exploited, oppressed, colonized, and who have seen the natural resources taken away. In the case of the Americas, these catastrophic consequences, I think they can be titular, without any doubt, of cataclysmics, apocalyptic, because we are talking about..., depending on the reference figures that end up, some historians or others, but we are talking about the loss of lives up to 90 percent of the indigenous population. I therefore believe that we cannot even approach the cataclysm that this could mean for any of the pre-existing societies. The fact is that the phenomenon of colonization itself and the direct impact on lost lives already explain how it is easier then to produce the phenomenon of aculturation that all colonial enterprise also promotes and ends up producing, isn't it? And it's no excuse, it can't be a pretext that, unlike the colonization of Asian or African countries, a good part of the victims of this colonization would be because there was no continuation, let's say, continental, so there was no immunity to certain maladies carried by the colonizers and a lot of people dying from these maladies. Because on the side of this there was a system of colonial exploitation that enslaved, that..., go, in the course of which, in order to be able to impose, there were great massacres, and that, therefore, I think it deserves our consideration. Now, our other days, and we give it with full respect, that we think it would be worth it, tell us, extend this look. Why is it certain that the young man is respectful of a very specific fact, that he is respectful of participation... – now I don't see Mr.Civit..., back then – he is respectful of the question of the colonization of the Americas and of the Catalan participation in the traffic of slavery basically, to sum it up, but the fact is that, if you were to do this exercise of honesty with your own history, you could have included the more direct Catalan participation in imperial adventures, for example, of the Aragonese crown, huh? You've been studying a lot lately, let's just say, about the mitochondrial DNA of the population and you've come to believe the estosinada we did there, huh? If one looks at what's going on, without going any further, to Sardenya, he must also conclude that the Aragonese conquest was in blood and fire, huh? , blood the iron. And that something that from here on is presented as a very positive question, which is the cultural, historical link, which is maintained with the town of Alguer, does not cease to be a certain form of celebration of a colonialism, because if it is spoken Catalan to Alguer it is basically because in its moment it practically annihilated the indigenous people and was repopulated with people who came from the principality. So, I'm running out of time, but I think we need a little more debate on this, we need to be able to examine the demand with the respect it deserves, and not turn it into a partisan confrontation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.282.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.283.0	Well, thank you, President. We will vote with conviction in favour of this motion; we fully share it, its opportunity and all its terms and contents. But not without noticing that we also have to recognize, perhaps with more emphasis than the one who raised the motion, that in fact good proof of the Catalan presence in slavery already made the creation of the Confraria de Sant Jaume de Barcelona on March 20, 1455 and that it is precisely considered the first black brotherhood to the West. That is to say, Catalan participation in slavery and colonial phenomena is old and old, yes, what the American colonial phase is, isn't it? But in this American colonial phase, as the young man also points out – but it is important to deepen it – we find great names, great families of the bourgeoisie and of the aristocracy, of the oligarchies, of the Catalan elites. Some of you, not all of you, are already at your disposal, I will not extend myself now to add more to it, but here we must really find some of the very important bases and origins of the formation of the Catalan ruling classes, the elites, the bourgeoisie and the Catalan oligarchies, many of which are still in force, and some which have been reinforced, including thanks to the period of the Franco dictatorship and its collaboration or connivance with the Franco dictatorship. As well as highlighting the Catalan slave presence in Cuba from much earlier, from the first third of the 16th century, eh? Therefore, it seems to us that it is very important to note this cognition of the Catalan ruling classes, which even at the time were opposed to abolitionism and the independence of colonies. It's not a minor stage, it's not an anecdotal stage in Catalan history. Therefore, it is necessary to ask forgiveness – not as others are denied to do –, to ask for reparations and, effectively, to compromise that these slave phenomena do not continue in force today, because today..., and the Catalan elites, through their economic interests and financed, will continue to participate in this slavery at the international level. And, well, before the intervention is over... I don't want to do this without this faristol showing all our solidarity with Mr. Julian Assange, denouncing the detention he's been objecting to and claiming from here freedom of information and expression from the world. [[The speaker shows a full with the hashtag "Free Assange to the chamber. The deputies of the parliamentary groups of Junts for Catalonia, Republic of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo and of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent stand up and show the same hashtag. The members of the government are also poor.]] Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.284.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.285.0	Thank you very much, President. They ask us here to condemn events that took place five hundred years ago in the conquest of America, as if the Romans had come here sharing hugs and mimos [[Funnel veils]] , and instead – instead – they are unable to condemn and empathize minimally with what happened four_hours ago – four_hours ago. Are they not ashamed to encourage, encourage a university that instead of being the temple of dialogue and the word becomes a totalitarian space where people are not allowed to speak? Today we had two options: to enter or not to enter. We have been advised not to enter, for safety; but we have decided to enter. And we have decided to enter and we have gone there to talk about democracy, Europeanism and freedom. We're in. I don't know if it's clear to them: we're in. And you know why? For though it has been a long time unpleasant – I will not deny it – we have no fear, neither you nor anyone. We are not afraid; it's over, as the motto of the convening organization of the event says. And that's exactly what I want to end, because we've been there today, and we've had it wrong, but we've come in and talked about freedom. But these young men from S'ha Finat! For months, a long time, suffering from the harassment of totalitarian tyranny. Mr Torra is gone, but I will tell you, even if he is not at the moment, that we demand him, I demand that he take the necessary measures to protect the dignity and the work of the young people of S'ha Afinat! , or I will bring before a court a complaint of hatred against Mr. Torra. It's over. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.286.0	On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Josep Maria Forné has the words. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.287.0	President, Councillor, Members and Members, Members of Parliament, the truth is that this young man, with all this background, has a terribly difficult or quite complicated rendition to do, isn't he? But... and change, we've been changing the speech several times, the positioning on it. I think, as Congressman Pedret said, it's a bad favor for us to drive this motion through partyism and hear it's a position. Because precisely what is condoning, what is being discussed is..., the Deputy Citizen in this case, the author, say, material of this young man, is the Catalan participation, which moreover the Deputy Riera has gone much further, and has deepened in this Catalan responsibility in the question of slavery, in the question of colonialism and in the question of imperialism. Therefore, in this sense, we bear this Catalan responsibility, and historically conveyed, because this must be done through the State, which, in some way, the empire or the kingdom, in which it participated, which is the Kingdom of Spain..., and, therefore, condemn this. Is sentencing enough? It's not enough, but it's, somehow, a step forward. Kant distinguished between legal progress and moral progress. Legal progress is historically feasible; moral progress is not. And the humans..., the deputy Fernández was talking about that novels..., so I don't know if we're morally better now than the novels; we're no better, surely. Especially, I don't think I'm... I don't think we're going back, I don't think we're going back, but morally. Now, one other thing is... legally, yes. And to make legal progress, then, we have to make these debates, say, of condemnation and positioning on fets, execretable fets, condemnable fets, as there are. What is it that historically does not allow to condemn or apologize? Two positions. One, this case yes, supremacism; it is to say, to believe'superior' and, therefore, with the right of power, say, exploit, colonize, enslave another, this is a position that supremacism does, and the other that does not allow us to apologize is victimism, that here it would also be useful to ask us what happens to victimism, that is to say, to place us in the position of victim and not to want to get out of that position of victim. By the way, I'm making a little parenthesis, and it's to reflect on why victimism is coming today. For example, those who end up giving fucking shots pretend to present themselves as victims because it's the one who politically sees, being a victim. But, well, that's one of the things that would fit. [[Greetings.]] This does not mean that the victim is irresponsible and has no responsibility for the things that happen. Like it's a young man who apologizes, and, more than apologizing, pose what he's tied to forgiveness, who I think this theologically has..., which is penance, in the revolutionary sense would be the purge that somehow should be done. He was also attached to a compensation menu, which was linked to the Catalan companies now having a series of obligations. We believe that it perfectly complements the position that would be warm..., that it is this position of apologizing, apologizing for compensation in the treatment that there is. Colonialism has stalled so much – and this is the last reflection that I would like to do – that... We will have an appearance of an indigenous person of Peruvian origin who denounced the forced sterilizations that have occurred in Peru – we are talking about the year 90, so..., and, to reflect on it –, therefore, the feminist movements of Peru were demanaging these gifts that denounced the sterilization of indigenous people who are not barragesssing with the feminism of Peru from this end of the 20th century. So colonialism is so out of hand, we have a lot of work to do. Starting by apologizing and setting up some compensation is always a good thing. In this sense, we will give support to the movement and to what it involves. Thank you, Deputy Civic, for making us move forward, because forgiveness is a sure way of making us move forward. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.288.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to pronounce on the papers, it's a turn for Mr. Civit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.289.0	If, in order to condemn colonialism, slavery and anything else is aimed at "the foundations of our democracy, oysters, five foundations that are weaker and more all – what we see every day. And when it comes to "the straw and the beam," it's that precisely here we're carrying the straw and the beam, and the whole ball. So, we're talking about Catalan participation in all the evils to participate in colonialism. That's what this young man is. And when we're talking about this, we're also talking, logically..., when we were talking about whether we read Bartholomew from the Houses or Victory... – Victory, one of the pairs of the Diplomacy, that I see here the deputy who also..., that I suppose maybe I should do the doctorate on this topic – one of the pairs of the modern Diplomacy, but also Bartholomew from the Houses, a referent, also was one of the pairs he said: "To the Indians we have to treat the good. Better to bring in other people to explode, than in this case were the Africans. And that's written – and that's written – and that's to say – and that's to say. I mean, nobody did it right. And, of course, the only two of you who spoke about the subject of what we were dealing with today is certainly the serious question: what society is the legacy of today's Roman society? There's no way. But what society is the legacy of colonialism of the 15th century, 16th century, 17th century, 18th century, 19th century? The Spanish society, I point. No one is claimed heir to the novels, but heir to the XVI, XVII, XVIII, yes, the Spanish society. So it's what he has to do. And, of course, I also take advantage of... – in a certain way it has been commented by Congressman Pedret and also by Congressman Riera – the subject of the movement was basically from colonialism, which is when it is mass and in a global way. Indeed, the whole subject of slavery goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on To finish, simply – simply – say, therefore, when speaking of the Nova História Institute, we recommend that they include the magazine Sàpiens del Març, that they have a good enough report and that they disassemble all and each of the theses of the Nova História Institute, that they have less validity than those of César Vidal or Pío Moa. And the question is: here, as the Parliament of Catalonia, do we condemn slavery, colonialism and suffering, yes or no? That's the question. And with the Catalans we have to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.290.0	Congressman, time's up. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] Put your vote to the vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.291.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.292.0	Six. All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] You asked for a separate vote on point 6, and you asked for a reading of the first four points, too, huh? All four points, Mr. Civit?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.293.0	The first four points to be voted on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.294.0	Yeah, but with the subpoints... the quarter with the inclusive subpoints?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.295.0	If possible, yes. And I take this opportunity to say, that I haven't said before, that we accept girl transactions with the commons, that time has run out, and many thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.296.0	All right, then. We will proceed first to vote on the sixth point of this motion, and then vote on the rest of the motion reading the first points from 1 to 4, as requested. So, we're voting point number six. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Six-six. The point of this motion was approved unanimously: 124 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the rest of the vote, and we're going to read the four points first. I asked Secretary Campdepadrós to read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.297.0	« The Parliament of Catalonia agrees: 1. To assume the moral responsibilities of Catalonia's participation in colonialism and slavery in Spanish imperialism. Two. Apologize to the Crown corporations and institutions of the victims of colonial exploitation and slavery. Three. It regrets that most of the heretical institutions of the ancient metropolis, enclosing the Spanish State, have failed to comply with the requests for moral reparation of the ancient colonies. 4. To urge the Government of the Generality to: a. Condemns the abuses committed against the original peoples during the conquest and the three centuries of colonialism and assumes the responsibilities that surround us for the past. b. Require the Spanish Government, the hereditary institution of the colonial metropolis through which Catalonia participated, to condemn and apologize officially to the societies and institutions hereves of the victims of colonial exploitation and slavery. c. To give a transfer of this resolution agreed in Ple to the governments of the countries that at some point have been colonized by the Spanish State, both of America and of Africa, Asia, Oceania and of the world.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-11-2902.298.0	All right, let's move to the vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The remainder of this motion was approved by 72 votes to 36, with 17 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] There's no point more in the order of the day, the session gets up. Thank you very much.
