ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.1.0	Good morning. [[Proposal for a law on the reduction of food miscarriage (debate of totality)]] [[202-00001/12]] Let us resume this session with the 8th item of the order of the day, which is the debate on the totality of the Law Proposal on reducing food abuse. According to Rule 116.2 of the Rules, first of all, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress has the word. To present this legislative initiative has the word, in this case, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you, ladies and gentlemen; counselors, counselors. In the first place, I would like to thank the presence of the people and entities who accompany us today to the plenary of Parliament, the Mirea Barba and Marc Farrés, as representatives of the Espigoladors de Catalunya collection. Raquel Díaz, representing the Center for Research in Economics and Agri-Food Development, the project CREDA-IRTA-UPC. Mrs. Roser Burata, representing the Board of Employers Distributors of Food of Catalonia ; also entities of the Food Bank and many others, who wanted to accompany us today, in this presentation. And before I start my intervention, I'd like to keep a small record for an important person in the malpractice field. As some of you know, when a deputy brings a law to term, he talks to a lot of people, to a lot of experts, to a lot of entities that know the subject. And in this case, Paco Muñoz was one of them. And he left us at the end of last year's generation, only fifty years old. In Paco he was a geographer, working as a technician at the Office of the Environment, at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, and he was a partner co-founder of the Platform. He was a specialist and anti-miscarriage activist. It was from the first people I talked to to toss this law forward. It was critical and now it's built, and I'm sure you liked it here today. In any case, I would like to recognize from the Parliament of Catalonia his figure, his dedication and let us hope, among all of us, that this law is at the height of what he has wanted. And now, yes, I'm in the matter. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress brings to term..., brings to this plenary of Parliament a proposal of law for the reduction of food miscarriage. This law must allow us to lay on the table, analyze and search for shared and effective solutions on the part of all actors involved in the food chain, and also, like not, the same public administration of Catalonia, with three main objectives. First, introduce a change of behaviour and attitude in the company's joint venture in order to regain the value of food. Conceiving food leftovers as resources, fighting ill-treatment and placing the emphasis on various social and solidary initiatives, which today are already ending the country's conjunct. And three, reduce the residue, as well as the mechanism to reduce the current ecological petjada. This proposal for law was presented, as you know, to the last legislature, and approved for all political forces in the Parliament of Catalonia. They started and finished the work of the ponència, with more than forty representatives from all the sectors involved. The parliamentary groups presented the papers to the law and we stayed a few weeks before we could finally approve it. The proposal of the law that I am presenting this year has some novelties in relation to the previous, since we have made the exercise of inclosure and of dealing with the papers presented there for the groups, with the intention of reaching a text with as much agreement as possible, following the hope of the first law, which then summed up with a clear objective: "This must not be a law of political battle, the fight against food malaise must be a country objective, of the joint venture of the society, and we must take care of and worry about all of them for their environmental, social, economic and sustainability implications. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to bring you a short approach to the current situation of food mismanagement, as much as it happens in Spain, as it happens in Catalonia. According to the European Commission, Spain is the seventh country to eat the most. In Spain, according to data from the ministry, it is malicious 7,7_million_tonnes of food every year. In Catalonia, according to data prepared for the Catalan Agency of Residus de Catalunya and the Autonomous University of Barcelona, it is more than 262,000_tonnes per year. That's to say, every bad catalyse more than 30 pounds a year. Both data from the Spanish and Catalan fields coincide to warn that it is the families that are the most misguided. In the case of Catalonia, 58_percent of the malaise is produced at all; 16_per_cent at supermarkets; 12_per_cent at inn; 9_per_cent at retail trade; 4_per_cent at catering companies, and 1_per_cent at municipal markets. Therefore, we are the families primarily responsible for this situation. The OCU, moreover, indicates that 80_percent of what families fill are foods as they were bought at the supermarket, and 20_percent remaining are processed food remains. As I said earlier, there are also economic and environmental implications behind malarrangement. In economic terms, the malarbaratment represents about 112_euros per year per inhabitant. That is to say, some EUR 841 million annually in Catalonia. From the environmental point of view, a given exemplifier: all the malarbaricated foods in one year would almost correspond to the 20_per_cent total of the agricultural area of Catalonia. And I end up with a given at the international level, facilitated by FAO: with half the current food losses, I could feed the entire population that wins the world. The consumer society in which we live creates paradoxes like the one we carry today in this House. On the one hand, one part of our society lives with difficulty to access basic needs, people with difficulty to eat every day, and on the other, a part of the society that is left with food and food. As always, civil society goes ahead with the institutions but we are still in time, like the country, to follow the example of other European countries, such as France, Italy or the United Kingdom, which already have laws of struggle against maltreatment. In the state sphere, Catalonia would be the first autonomous community with a law of these characteristics. The proposition of the law that we defend today is not against anyone, all the contrary. The same legal process must allow us to become, speak and agree with all the actors involved. It has to be used to detect and reproduce, if necessary, the very many practical good ones that already apply to the territories by all of them. The local world also knows some of them. The same Generality has also worked on this issue from the Catalan Food Security Agency and the Catalonia Residue Agency, making awareness, dissemination and coordination of projects. Good practices, well-directed, that need a more general_mark and a country bet, which is what we want to do with this law. A proposal which, moreover, must be respectful of territorial diversity and the actions to be carried out must be decisive and, at times, flexible and adaptable to all the realities that exist in Catalonia and to the projects that are already carried out by many collections, platforms and social entities. Next, I will go on to unravel some of the most prominent aspects of the proposal, and I insist that some of the novelties are the fruit of the papers presented for most of the political parties of the later legislature. For what it does to producers and manufacturers, the proposal of law contemplates the development of initiatives aimed at reducing waste, especially organic waste, to more than contemplate the strategies of corporate social responsibility of enterprises, actions aimed at reducing food miscarriage. The sectors involved in manipulators and distributors of food products will have to make efforts to enable their workers and workers, because they are active in reducing maltreatment, to try to reduce even more – and we know that it is already done, for early meetings with some of their representatives – the generation of expired food residues or with a date of preferential consumption and of the fresh product. Another group also sees the need to inform consumers about more responsible consumption patterns, making information on the use of food and waste more transparent. And it forbids the use of those foods with a preferential consumption date to waste, which will force them to look for strategies of differentiated sales of the rest of products, or to reach agreements with companies or entities to allocate these products to human, animal, industrial, compost or biogas, for this order. With regard to hotels and the area of catering, this law proposes to make it easier for the consumer to endur-se home flat foods by mixing carmanyola-type packages, a fact that is every time more common in the catering web. There is not much they already do, but this is a practical extension to all the restaurateurs, because it will help us to two things: first, to reduce the malaise and to become aware that we can demand it as consumers and let go of the shame that exists, on the part of some consumers, to ask it. The purpose of the law is to reduce the amount of food coming from the remains of flattened breeds and from which it cannot be reused in the kitchen. More than promoting the consumption of seasonal products, and for another band, improving the segregation of the organic fraction of the one that is still able to take advantage of. It also adds the obligation to those companies or entities that organize catering for more than eighty people, to allocate to what is not consumed to strategies of re-use. The public administration is also present in this proposal of law, both to make this law complete, as for the incorporation of clauses to fight against the malarrangement in public contract departures, as well as facilitating the creation of space for the distribution of surplus food. Social entities are also responsible for this law. Let's see that I have right to food from the donation, to finish your attention to the most disadvantaged collectible. It will, however, be necessary to collect information and advice from public administrations, to make a good preservation of food and not to distribute food that does not comply with food safety regulations. As a novelty, it is indicated that social entities equip themselves to end-users and, therefore, are responsible for the well-being of the food they distribute. But taking advantage of food surpluses is also an opportunity to strengthen social and collaborative economy initiatives. We must be able to establish a new framework for managing food resources and waste, encouraging use, procurement and responsible consumption of food in Catalonia. When asked, we will open the debate on whether foods from my own countries can be re-commercialized by social entities, through job placement projects of new collectibles at risk of social exclusion, a very complicated issue in which it will be necessary to seek a majority position. And finally, it will be necessary for consumers to adopt more sustainable purchasing and consumption habits, by means of information from all the actors involved, about mismanagement, with the aim of introducing changes in their consumption habits. In all cases, in all sectors, the law incorporates the obligation to have a strategic plan to fight food abuse. Not keeping it, it would mean failing to comply with the sanctioning regime that establishes the law. This is perhaps one of the most remarkable developments of this proposal in relation to the past. An important part of the parliamentary groups considered that it was necessary to have a sanctioning regime, but we believe that this should focus on the lack of strategic plan. And on this subject, I want to devote a minute to this aspect. We believe that this law will only be possible with the involvement of all sectors involved in the food chain. If we want a useful law, then we measure very well what is the degree of malaise in each of the sectors so that we can look for reduction strategies or modify the law in a future to adapt it to the reality of every moment. And one of the current issues is how we measure malarrangement. Therefore, we ask for the obligation to inform the Public Administration of the tones of malaise for each of the sectors; skip this transfer of information, but it would have economic consequences. The current situation, for which it does the inspection by the Government of Catalonia, does not allow us to establish with guarantees the application of the sanctioning regime for other aspects. This cannot be a law that requires the fine, but the compromise; nor can it be a law full of good intentions, but without obligation, and therefore we have incorporated a sanctioning regime. The public administration also needs to be involved in reducing the burden, it will have to give an example of its commitment and, at the same time, give legal, regulatory and economic coverage to the aspects that ultimately diminish them. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance proposes some, as the need for a Catalan plan of struggle against food maltreatment, a need that all political parties voted in favour, in the plenary of poverty a few years ago, and that has recently translated into the plan of action to prevent food maltreatment in Catalonia 2019-2020, thanks to the impulse of many entities, institutions and the result of the European project Ecowaste 4 Food, a very good initiative, and that the proposal of law fixed as mandatory, with the participation of agents, such as the Catalan Council of Food, a body that already exists and would act as a body to follow this law. We wanted to take advantage of structures already created, experts, and not create new ones. It's also about taking advantage of what we have, in this respect. But more than reducing the malaise, the proposal of the law includes other key aspects to achieve the success of the initiative. We need more education on this subject, and that is why we are proposing to include in the educational plans a programme of awareness and information and education on food mismanagement, to promote awareness campaigns, to direct consumers to recover the value of food and to design food leftovers. We also need to promote research and innovation in the field of food. It is necessary to allocate more economic resources to the university and to research and technological research organisations, by facilitating the establishment of collaboration agreements and, for another group, the improvement of the regeneration of waste in organic matter. The proposal of the law backs the need to set aside a distinction of quality of struggle against food maltreatment intended for agents of each of the fields, which demonstrates their commitment against maltreatment, as well as the necessary regulation of the activity of espigulation in Catalonia. These are some of the aspects that we consider most remarkable of this bill's proposal, possibly not all of them, but we think it is a good starting point to work, from the dialog, seeking agreement with all the agents involved. A law that will benefit all of us, that counts on a large collection of good part of the population, concerned about the redistribution and profit of that which we produce, and with much work on the part of the Government of the Generality of Catalonia – congratulated, counsel; on this issue there is a good job going on – and also previous governments that have gone, from little to little, following this objective of reducing food malaise. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that Catalonia is in a position to give a step forward and to be a pioneer in Spain in bringing to fruition a law that reverses food miscarriage, mediating the involvement of all sectors of the food chain. And, therefore, I encourage you, ladies and gentlemen, to give free passage to this law which will, of course, benefit all of us and all of us and which has prospects for the future of what will happen, which we want Catalonia to be in the next few years from the point of view of its sustainability. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.3.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, as no totality papers have been presented, the remaining parliamentary groups will intervene to express their position. First of all, Mrs Carmen de Rivera, for the Grupo Parlamentari de Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.4.0	Honourable Counsellor.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And we do so convinced, because, although we believe that it is a global problem, we believe that we can provide solutions at the local level and introduce a change of mindset in society, recovering the value of food, and transforming the concept we have from food remains to resources. As I said to you, this is a global problem that affects the more developed societies and has global consequences, such as CO2 emissions, the great costs to the economy and a social aspect that is also important to take into account. It is on the basis of these three reasons that we are going to support the processing of this bill, although not without first arguing some weak points that we believe will need to be greatly improved during the processing of the law. The first and main problem, a problem of fiscal order, difficult to solve; in the various appearances of the previous legislature it has already been pointed out. In order to encourage the donation, it is necessary to reduce the rate of VAT in the donation of food, but which depends on the European Union, since it has to amend the directive on this tax. This is a great obstacle, according to the various entities that appeared, and for what we have no competence in this Parliament, not even in the Congress of Deputies. On the other hand, we are also concerned about the drafting of some rights that this law seems to grant. For example, Article 5c establishes the right of entities in various sectors to receive tax incentives for actions in favour of the donation of food to social action entities, which will be determined by regulation. This – Mrs. De la Calle has already told you, Mr. Moreno – is very naïve, because tax incentives have to be collected by law. If you want tax incentives measures you should be in the law, detailing the rights and conditions under which you will have access to them. That will be appreciated by the operators involved. Secondly, there is a whole series of duties in Articles 6 to 10 for producers and manufacturers, manipulators, distributors, catering sectors and consumers, which we are concerned about, and we should ask ourselves whether these actions will not be killing cannon flies. For example, Article 6c provides for the obligation to have a strategic plan to combat food waste in the terms established by the Catalan Food Council. As an advisory body, we do not believe that it should be the body that dictates the guidelines that producers and manufacturers will then have a duty to follow. We believe that it should be the Government, in any case, that establishes these obligations by regulatory regulation, and not a consultative body. This problem with the Català de l'Alimintació Council is repeated in other points of the law. Another point that concerns us is that of Article 7.j: the duty to increase the bulk sale of products. We will have to analyse the negative economic impact that this proposed measure may have on the productive sector, to study how the objectives of this law are. And in relation to Article 8(b) and we ask ourselves: to what extent will it not be possible to require them to have containers intended to transport leftovers in restaurants? We're afraid it'll end up using more plastic. Although the law states that they must be biodegradable packaging, the reality is – and I have checked it in restaurants – that plastic packaging is delivered to you. Another point of concern to us, and a great deal, is that of food security in this proposal. Food security is the basic pillar of business and of the entire value chain of products, so the issue of responsibilities remains crucial. In article 12, on the rights and duties of social entities, we are concerned about how the issue of food security will be guaranteed, especially for food that is cooked or that has a shorter food life, because we understand that if food passes to these entities it is either because it will be leftovers from restaurants or catering or because it will be at the limit of its useful life. In that regard, we are concerned about how the food security of these foods will be ensured for both the social action entity and the consumer. We believe that it is a law with very good intentions but with few concrete measures; that is, it provokes expectation but we are afraid that it will be disappointed. We will have to apply ourselves all very much in the parliamentary procedure so that this is not the case. In any case, and in conclusion, we welcome the fact that food waste is on its way to leaving the area of the indispensable and residual to become an inherent part of the companies' social, environmental and economic value chain. We fully agree with the purpose of the rule, we are aware of these problems and we will work to improve the implementation of the measures we have found lacking. But while the objectives of this law are very respectable and necessary, of course, we must not confuse two debates which, in our opinion, are very different; on the one hand, the problem of food waste and, on the other hand, the problem of social inequality, and that there should be people who must resort to these kinds of ways to achieve decent and adequate food. Flaco favor we would do if we let the processing of laws like this, which, as we have said, seems very timely, cover other debates that are so or more important. What we really need to try to look for are tools for no one to depend on leftovers to eat. As long as this situation is not regularized, at least we must offer solutions to the problems of the citizens, but, as I said, without forgetting what the real problems are and looking for measures that follow the true origin of the problem; the rest are just patches. Nothing more, and thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, also to defend the position, has the word deputy Marta Ribas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.6.0	Good morning, good morning, everybody. Food mismanagement is a characteristic phenomenon of developed societies, where there are these systems of production, logistics, distribution, consumer values – consumerism, fact – and standard conditions, which also cause that every year there are thousands of tons of foods that could have been taken advantage of. A third of the food produced in the world is lost or discarded; in Catalonia, however, it is important to remember it, thirty-five kilos per inhabitant every year. It is a phenomenon that obviously plays us ethically with the contrast with the increase in the name of citizenry that is being addressed to the poor food. But unfortunately it is a question that is much more important, it is not just this fact that there are people without food and food who do not benefit, it is not just a matter of social justice: it is a question of ethics, but above all of efficiency and economic and economic sustainability, which requires us as a society to apply all those formulas and measures that are necessary, first, above all, to reduce food mismanagement and, secondly, to reintroduce into the cycle of consumption the products that can be taken advantage of with food and avoid, at the same time, that we should treat them and spend resources to treat them with residue. Let me still dig a little deeper into this part of the analysis we're talking about. It is, we say, an element of social justice, yes, because we must not lose sight of the fact that we are also talking about the right to food for people, that it is a universal right, that it is a legally binding right of compliment for all states that we have ratified the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and that misrepresenting food is absolutely contradictory to the compliment of this right and of this obligation that we have the public administrations of the states that we have ratified the declaration. But, I say, it is also an element of eco-efficiency, not only for the 262,000_tons of traceable waste in Catalonia, but also for the environmental effects of maltreatment, which are apparent in the reduction of available fertile land, in the loss of ecological diversity, in the flurry of drinking water and energy, and in the contribution of the emission of winter-effect gases, when we are producing foods that are not then taken advantage of as such and, obviously, for the treatment that we have to do after these residues. But also, and in the third place, it is an element of economic efficiency. The loss of food weakens the economy, makes businesses less competitive, incurs the expense of money and forces public authorities to allocate resources to manage these surpluses and the food losses that they could have benefited from. In Catalonia the calculation, a few years ago, was that we were..., well, avoiding the maladjustment – we could say it in position –, we could save 840_million euros each year. For us, these are the three bases on which we want to look at the issue of food mismanagement and, obviously, to which we believe that we need to put a solution and that we want to put a solution, not only because the company is demanding it, but also because the European Parliament is demanding it from us. The 19th generation of 2012 passed a resolution to the European Parliament that urges us to cut this food mismanagement to half before the year 2025, and therefore we should be putting in place measures to complete this European mandate. Civil society already does things–it does things–, also the Administration. There are experiences, especially of civil society in the last few years, especially from the local world, also, and especially from the research. I believe that there are many practical good things to be done, as well as good things to put into value, both for the issue of profiting from surpluses in distribution, in restoration, and for actions intended to promote practical good things, changes in consumption in the city. This law should serve to push all this, not to go against it for nothing; to push all the good practices that already exist, those experiences that already exist, to put them on display, to highlight them and, therefore, to help them. But also to regulate, especially to regulate, to guarantee food safety, to guarantee the legal security of these practical ones, to avoid bad practices also in this area. And this too should serve to go further, to put a minimum of those sectors which by good will or by their own will are not being applied in this sense, and therefore to force. And we absolutely agree that the law will have to impose sanctions. But let us add another, to our object, to this law: that it also serves to change habits and crops of consumption. For us the laws are also to change values, they are to make politics, and that is why we also want you to serve this law. The Socialists and Units Group's proposal for moving forward is good for working on it, we think, but we believe that we need to improve it and that we need to complement it. We are obviously willing to do so today, and in this sense I support the transmission of this law. We believe that it is more concrete to add to it, that it is more valiant to add to these more structural, substantive measures, how we reduce food mismanagement and then management to what has not been reduced, to those which have already included the proposal. We are therefore prepared to work together to achieve what should be the main objective for us of policies to prevent food abuse, but also reduction throughout the food cycle, from the field to the consumer table. But also, and we will not lose sight of at any time of the work we have to do in dealing with this law, to break the dynamic of thinking that food mismanagement is a solution by using surpluses as a donation or as charity for people at risk of exclusion. This is not the solution to food mismanagement, but above all it is not the solution to poor food. While there can certainly be moments of these paths of solutions that are found and, therefore, to take advantage of them, we cannot reduce the solution either to the malaise or to the poor food to a law of this type or to a breeding of this type. For us, obviously, this law can also be used for one of the solutions to the poor, which is to take over the people who have circumstances of poor food in their family, to generate reuse of discarded foods and, at the same time, to generate new jobs, which is how the poor really ended up. If we get the law out of this, we'll be satisfied. And I think it's possible and I think we have a good opportunity. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.8.0	Good morning, everyone. First of all, we would like to thank you for finding us again with a law proposal, with this very law proposal in this chamber. And he said again, because some and some have already enjoyed it, and they have suffered, surely equally, in the previous legislature. And why we congratulate each other, so it's for two questions. The first, the material question, which you can assume as to regulation. And second, because it sets us a veritable miracle of what is the essence of the capitalist system. For one thing, the reality that more than 30_per_cent of the world's food is bad. We should think deeply about this, that it is not only a social scandal or an ecological scandal, that it is supposed to be, but it is absolutely a crime. And, for another band, because you tell us how the capitalist system works; an economic organization system that, for one band, produces more than human needs, in fact, not only humans, but all the food needs of the planet. And, for another band, it doesn't even guarantee the food of most human beings. That's how capitalism works. If you want to see it, you see it, and if you don't want to see it, then you are denied and you are clearly continuing to defend this system of economic organization. Also, and with the same logic that we are translating them: the capitalist system is capable of lynching and squandering food if that means maintaining business benefits. It is the natural heritage of the capitalist system. Even this irrationality of functioning, because from an irrational logic it's absurd what the capitalist system means and this is its maximum expression, we should also see how this is plasma in this law. For us, and we will try to delve into this, there is a part of the malaise that is not addressed, that is the previa to the very existence of food in the market, in its production phase. But it does not address a question of competitions, which we have discussed many times if this chamber has competitions, if the Congress has competitions, today and yet it has come up with a question that even the institutions of the Spanish State would certainly not have any competitions..., but for the very functioning of the capitalist system, it would be contrary to the nature of the capitalist system that we have such a rational question as to produce only what is needed and, at the same time, to guarantee the food of human beings. This is contrary to the very functioning of the capitalist system. It is possible that there is now someone who is thinking: "Well, this is the classic theories of the CUP, they are anti-capitalists, they are socialists... So, look, beyond the classic theories of the CUP, that some and some may think: up to one-third of the funds of the operating programs that the European Union dedicates to organizations of fruit and vegetables producers – up to one-third – is expressly dedicated – expressly – to the removal of the market from what has already been produced, with the sole objective of not altering the price of the bass. This is how not only the capitalist system works, but the capitalist system in this band of the world that has touched us alive. Entering into one part of the content with regard to the Socialist Group's proposal, we agree with the plans to recover food values, to fight against food mismanagement, to strengthen the duration and transformation circuits, and also with what we think are the novelties that will be incorporated in this new proposal with regard to the previous one. For a band, the strategic plan of struggle against malarrangement, we have already heard that there is already opposition over this, because here are the new ones that fit in. Also, establishments of more than four hundred square meters may have the obligation not to devote to residues those consumer products preferably or with the date of preferred consumption already exceeded, and also the subject of large catering. But I'm sure we'll have you with the sanctioning rule. And that is why there has also been some critical intervention on the sanctioning regime. For us, for the UPC, there is no real and effective law unless it is accompanied by a sanctioning rule that does not turn the law into a dumb paper. The rest would be fine, it would be a good job, it would be a good statement of intentions from this Parliament, but we do not come here to make permanent declarations of intentions, which is ours, unfortunately, usual logic, but we come to regulate, because that is what the people ask of us and what they ask of us, moreover, the most common feeling, that is that we give alternatives to the problems that society has. Therefore, we, again, thank the Socialist Group for the proposal of the law that it brings today, the regulation begins now, but we are already paying attention and attention to what the pressures of some sectors will be because what is the sanctioning rule, where we will have them in order to make the regulation effective, is not completed or is completed in such a way that there is no material content of the law. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.10.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, well, man, I think the first is to thank the Socialist Party for presenting this bill. I think that with this we can get rid of the so-called 'third-party', to see if we can bring this law to fruition, among other things, because we have a European legislation, which is precisely 2017, which is not yet transposed; we have even a bill of law at national level that would give us the general mark, but that, for early elections, we cannot close, until we have the agreement made since October of the past year, and we have the consensus – we have the consensus – here in Parliament, which is very strange in this legislature, so I believe that it is the opportunity to take advantage of and try to approve this law once and for all. I have to say something, too. Look at the context, what is the situation we have in Spain, what is the situation we have in Catalonia, and what is the reality that we have, in reality..., although Mr. Moreno tells us that we are unfortunately seven, we have a quite good reality compared with our countries around us, among other things, because, if we look at it, there is only a 6_per_cent in the distribution sector, that there is more peremptory food in large quantities, it shows that there is a good management of these foods that come past the expiration date or even the recommended consumption date, right? We have this situation, we have a good network of collaboration, agreements, between NGOs, social entities, and I think we need to take advantage of this, and now I will make some criticism of this law proposal to encourage, encourage and not so much to penalize. And why am I saying that? Home, because five plans for this are penalizing you. Of course it can punish, of course it can review, of course it can control what it is doing and that the distribution sector, for example, does not do any harm to those foods that are no longer for consumption, let's say, of the distribution network and can mismatch these foods because they cannot be served with agreements with NGOs or social entities. Well, it has to be sanctioned and it has to be controlled and monitored, but the most important thing is to encourage, encourage. Home, we have the opportunity that the same society already has awareness, it has a reality of practice that is not only solid, but is effective, we try to consolidate this by supporting fiscal promotion. We're trying to help the one that already works work even better, aren't we? This is the idea I think we need to take advantage of, this job to make it better. We have a reality and it is that, indeed, there are countries of our circle that have already regulated. Home, why don't we get inspired? Why don't we take the law of good samarity, for example, of Italy? What it does is that all this sector, which is inn, that has products that are processed and that can deal with this sector of social cooperation, therefore, does not have a negative impact on its good will and the inn in this lane with possible claims of civil responsibility because to the people or the final consumer, whatever it is, this food has gone wrong, right? I'm sure with good will and with the consensus that we already had last year's legislature and that we seem to have this, we can improve this law, among other things, because I find there's something missing. For example, it's a lot of food, it's a lot of elaborate food, but we haven't talked practically or it's not talked practically in this law about all those pine nuts, so we're talking about reuse, for example, of the surplus products... Well, I think we can take advantage of it, we can try to give it a boost, and even reduce our comparisons, because we've already done them in the past legislature and, in the end, with all the agents involved, with their own will and with our own, trying to improve a little bit of our society, right? I think that with this proposal we can do it and I think we all have a good will to do it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, and on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mrs Montserrat Fornells.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.12.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, MPs, MPs, representatives of entities of the Spigulators, Bank of Foods, Rezero, To Good To Go Barcelona, Aecoc, Caritas, Promotion of Work, Platform« We take advantage of food and public that you accompany us today to the hemicicle, very good morning to everyone. We are in front of the debate on the Law Proposal on the reduction of food miscarriage. Food malaise is defined as those safe and nutritious foods, initially intended for human consumption, which are rejected or used in an alternative, non-food way, to the length of food supply chains. According to the FAO, every year, a total of 1,300_million_tonnes of food is lost or abused, equivalent to one_third of the food produced in the world for human consumption. At the European Union every year there are some 88_million_tonnes, a quantity equivalent to 173 kilos per person/ year and 20_percent of food production. And in Catalonia, according to data from the Catalan Agency of Residus, the malaise of food at home, retail and catering, is more than 260,000_tonnes per year, equivalent to 7_percent of the food purchased and 35 kilos per person, with an economic impact of loss of 841_million euros per year, 112_euros per person per year. These are some crazy data and they're asking all of us to approach them. Food mismanagement has an associated environmental impact, and it also involves labour mismanagement, money and resources in a context where there is no such thing. That we cannot afford and that unfortunately there are a lot of people who gain and have difficulties to have adequate food consumption. Only with half of the current food losses could you feed the entire population that is currently gaining in the world. This malaise of food is produced in all the trunks of the food chain, from production linked to the primary sector, to consumers, and, therefore, they all have to be part of the solution and its reduction, passing through all the intermediate enterprises. This proves to us that it's a reptile of everyone. Reducing food mismanagement is a collective challenge that requires raising awareness and involving all food chain agents, where we need to review production and consumption patterns in order to move towards a more sustainable and circular-economy-based food system. But from Esquerra, we believe that it is appropriate not only to talk about reducing, but also to focus on prevention. To deal with this situation, from the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, we consist – and so we want to thank Councillor Jordan and her team who are accompanying us today – as part of the follow-up both in the production chain of the primary system and on the part of the food industry, which is working with the agri-food sector to achieve the objectives of prevention and reduction of losses and unhealthy food both with the impulse of the economy and circular bioeconomy as well as with the profit of food and the recovery of the value of food in society. From the department, it is working through various lives, through information, with the realization of studies and guides of good practices, such as the guide that is being done with the CREDA and the same sector, to help agri-food companies to boost a plan of reduction and prevention of losses and food abuse, and that it will usually present itself and that it seems to be key to us to have a referendum on the day this law comes. It is also working through awareness, with newspapers, campaigns and prevention actions. It is also working through putting in value good practices, with workshops and working with all sectors. Also through regulation, with coordination being exercised by the inter-departmental commission on food mismanagement, at the time of working on the contents, as is already done with the passage of this law. And, finally, it is also working through research, analysis, research and innovation on the benefit of food and the reduction of food losses and malnutrition. For what it refers to this proposal of law we are debating, it is that, in the last legislature, the eleven, the same group proposing of this, the PSC, also presented this proposal of law on the excess food. The Juntes pour el Si Group worked hard, together with the department – which from here I want to thank the work done for Constellera Serret – and presented papers to the initial drafting of the proposal submitted by the PSC Group to improve the drafting and the purpose of this. Nevertheless, the law expired the last legislature at the end of this year as a consequence of the application of Article 155. Then, we find ourselves at the beginning of this legislature and the PSC Group, in solitary, re-registers this proposal of law, however, at the time! This time incorporating some of the papers and work done in the past legislature. That's why, Mr. Moreno, you're supposed to be an opportunist. Nevertheless, it seems to us perfect that the work done in the past legislature has been incorporated, but we deeply regret that this initiative has been presented again in solitary. Although I've known the work that we've done all the groups in the past legislature, it's worth it. We consider that we have been able to speak with all the groups to present it together and, if not, to present it with more than one group. On the part of our group and the rest of the groups, as has been said, we have not presented ourselves to the totality, because we see and believe firmly, believe me, that it is necessary that we can continue with the processing of this law and we can dispose of the norm, because we are in favour of an absolute and necessary reduction of food mismanagement; it is an important issue that concerns us and affects the agri-food sector, the government and also the whole society in general. Therefore, although the text presented is better, we want to make it as easy as possible to pass a law that promotes its prevention and reduction. Regulatory regulation is necessary and essential to continue advancing in the struggle to address this malarrangement. In any event, despite the fact that the new proposal has included some of the points that have been worked on in the last parliamentary term at the proposal of the Group of Joints for the Yes, such as, for example, the prioritisation of prevention or reduction of food maltreatment beyond incentivising and mobilising the profit of food, or also the obligation to have a strategic plan of food maltreatment, we still consider, on the part of our group, that there are other important issues that have not been collected or that have only been partially recovered. Therefore, during the parliamentary process and the debate on the question, we can work and debate to improve its drafting, to get a better law and to incorporate requests that make us different entities and collects, some of them present here today in the Chamber, and that I take advantage of to greet them again and to thank them for the work they are promoting in this way of collective struggle, to which we place ourselves during the process of appearances of the law. We also consider that the title of the law would be better if it were in place and that, instead of food mismanagement, it was said that food was being re-used. For what it does to the law, to the aspects of the law, this is structured into three sections, four chapters, twenty-nine articles, plus eight additional provisions and two final provisions. We do not have time to go into the detail of the whole law, we will have time and opportunities to talk about it during the parliamentary process, but we already have the announcement that our parliamentary group will propose some items in the joint, as I have said before, because there are important issues that have not been collected or partially collected, such as, for example, the definitions of food residue and poor food, the theme of the explanation, the topic of the consumption date preferred and the date of expiry, small businesses and micro-enterprises, as well as the topic of social welfare entities, the theme of the exclosure of the scope of application of this issue explicitly read the good primary products that have not yet been collected and so long as they have not entered the principle of strengthening the subject of the food supply chain, but rather the module of the good products that have not yet been compiled, and so far as they have not entered the principle of regulating the subject matter of the food industry, which is also the subject of the preliminary processing of the agricultural products. It also means that in the current text of the law there appears a new article that needs to be drafted, such as the right and right new ones that are imposed on the different agents of the food chain or the theme of the chapter of bonuses, so as to improve it. Finally, today we take a step forward to begin to regulate this problem of food mismanagement. We have an opportunity we need to take advantage of. All groups are being questioned and we need to get to work so that this is a reality. On the part of our group, they will always find us with the utmost willingness to come to terms and work because from this Parliament there is an exemplary, model law, and it will take away all the objects for which this law will be approved. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Josep Maria Forné has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.14.0	President, councillor, deputies and deputies..., entities, representatives of different areas that you are also affected by this struggle for maltreatment..., and, especially, let me dedicate myself to the Food Bank, with which I feel especially bound for years of dedication to this entity, to these entities, because, in fact, they are diverse in the territory, and I know perfectly well the good work that fire. Congratulations and forward, Food Bank. He doubted, yes or no, whether to reflect around a movie, and Congressman Vidal made me say it..., say, so, do it, somehow. The film of the Ingmar Bergman L' or of the snake creates a reflection in order to create them of order enmig of the disorder. And one little question is, what we're doing is this. And the film is based on a murder, in the last 20 years, of Germany, in a Weimar Republic in crisis, with a roll that practically no one shouts or complains and a commissary who insists on wanting to solve it, and ask him: "Why do you want to solve this case, when it's not worth it, right? I say: "It is simply by responsibility. It is by responsibility that we somehow pretend: to create these orderly islands in the midst of disorder. And in a way also because the reflection made by the deputy Vidal was attributable to a system, as if there was a system that offered some viable alternative. What I'm going to try to do next is defend that this other system that I'm going to plan for isn't even viable and, on the contrary, it's a very important thing like freedom, which we'll talk about later. But, given this reflection, which after all I will also take up in some way, the law's proposal is an uncertain initiative. And, therefore, we congratulate ourselves and here we congratulate the proponents and everyone we support, because it is everyone we support and work on, and it will be a good..., and I'm sure it will be a good pocket we'll do here. To say that with the data we've given ourselves, it indicates in some way, therefore, the problem that we're raising. They are data, these cents per Catalan and Catalan in the year that we squander, these 800_million euros..., but above all the most scandalous fact is that with half of what we are launching at world level, we will solve the problem of fame at world level. So, the abst is huge, it's worth working on and it's worth trying to 'get that this is reversed or, as a minimum, create that minimum order that we can get it. This concern begins in the sixties in the western world, when, on one side, we started..., we start eating and, on the other side..., we don't go to the other end of the world, but at the same time you have people with food needs. It is a contradiction to what needs to be done, and it is a certainty to want to regulate it in some way at the legal level, not just on the initiative of civil society or initiatives with which they already exist, such as that of the Food Bank, which is trying to correct this objective, the objective of malaise and the struggle against the poor, which are two things that go and can go from hand to hand. The later economic crisis, that of the year 2008, has already forced the producers and distributors to fine-tune much more in their production and distribution, because the malaise, even for the sake of economic survival, was convenient in the same enterprises to adjust, and this they have already done, say, techniques of adjustment in the production and distribution of these foods. But not so much this economicist will to achieve a good result, so it has been enough and enough to reduce and eliminate this element of malaise. We could think, as in this case the deputy of the CUP, the Vidal, who, with a planning, so, that's resolution, huh? Let me explain a little anecdote that seems to me to be very symptomatic and goes down here. The year 89, when the Brandenburg Gate is opened and the borders of the communist bloc, the citizens of the communist bloc, the East German, the first thing they do is not go to the museum or go to..., but they go to the supermarket. And they ask them at the supermarkets why they go to the supermarkets, and it's because they say they have an experience of freedom there, an experience of freedom of being able to sort out what they would eat and with what they would say that day, they would fill the bed. It's not a matter of every day giving me what you're planning to give me, or just so we solve the problem, on the contrary, but we deprive people of other important, substantive benefits, such as freedom. It is also true that, with this law of malarray and against malarray, it is not a question of fighting against the family. Fame has to pursue... it has to settle down through a specific struggle against the Fame. This is not to waste money, to give value to food, as Mr Moreno has already said, it is one of the most important objectives. There are questions, for example, the fruit and vegetables of surplus, this, as much as we intend to plan, the productions do not distribute them, the natural one does not govern it absolutely, and therefore, for some market questions, there must also be surpluses, which we can regulate, and it is one of the things that we can intervene there, in this. I think... I know that the department is aware of it, and it works, for example, the department, especially, in the transformation of these products of surplus form, say, exemplary, because few countries at the level of Europe do this. We therefore congratulate ourselves on that. The theme of expiration, the theme of preferential consumption... This is a strategic difference that should make the product that is lenient, so it is profitable, huh? , and don't go on, say, malgastat. Also straighten; of course, straighten..., and the law somehow goes into the social initiations of re-utilizing these foods. All this and all the list that we have made between all the interventions, we have to do it out of responsibility and justice, and we have to do it with clear criteria, as I believe that the department, already in the previous legislature, with Consteller Serret, and now with the current department, so there is a clear will to intervene there through five guiding principles that I seem worth mentioning, which are: working the information, huh? , the information as to the element that you serve to prevent and reduce that criteria, say, more economical, that in some way can already eliminate a product that is then able to mislead; the awareness and awareness of the citizenry, the change of mindset – that is why we spoke before, which has also come out, from a profound transformation– ; promote practical good; regular, regular to order, which is about this, and another important element; investigate, of course, yes, if we can in the investigation use this research as the element of rationalization in the production, distribution and consumption of food. Because we are also in another of the Western paradoxes: another of the paradoxes of our world is that there are more obese people than people who are famous in the world, with which it is also one of the things that we would like to ask ourselves. If all these virtues are not to be added to some, we also add, more so, as has already been pointed out, that with food profit, with struggle against abuse, more so that there is no destruction of the environment, as it is in the destruction of some of the products that are abused. Sustainability. Giving out to solidarity and the responsibility that the citizenry... Sometimes it is critical, as if the food banks, for example, were charitable; it is not only about the profit they make, but also about the vehicle that these institutions make of solidarity, about the willingness of people to give answer to the needs of others. I, therefore, here... the circular economy. And, of course, the issue of the sanctioning regime has arisen on various occasions. A law without a sanctioning rule is a sermon. And you're all right, the sermons, but we don't want to stay in a sermon, but we just want to go a step further and we want to be effective, have a material content, as someone said here. And lastly, as I started with the subject of the film of L' or the serpent, I said that the serpent's or worried about the past, the thirties, and then there appeared to be swastikas, games and arrows and other forms, and we knew that when they reappeared these forms would not appear, but the risk that they would appear is very great and we need to be all alert. If contributing to this small order we can avoid it, that will be a good thing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, and as no papers have been presented to the whole of this proposal, this legislative initiative can continue its processing. [[Decree Law 4/2019, of the 29th generation, of urgent measures in the matter of the transport of passengers by means of the llogger of vehicles with driver]] [[203-00012/12]] So let's move on, therefore, to the next item on the agenda, which is the item on the agenda, which corresponds to the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 4/2019, of the 29th generation, of urgent measures in the matter of the transport of passengers by means of the driver's vehicle logger. In accordance with Article 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability will intervene in the first place to expose the reasons for which this Decree has been promulgated. [[Widow's remorse.]] It has the word, just after the precept silence is kept, the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.16.0	By a call to the observance of Rule 90. We understand that this decree that is intended to validate here has already been marked by the Council of Statutory Guarantees as containing unconstitutional precepts and which would also cause the Administration to incur, could cause the Administration to incur the obligation to compensate the injured. Therefore, on the basis of article 113.1, which requires that the Bureau not conduct any initiatives that are contrary to the laws, I would ask the Bureau to value the withdrawal of this item from the agenda, and I would also ask the Government and the Councillor to intervene now to do the same, that in order to avoid causing harm to others, a compensable damage, by means of this decree, something that has already been warned by the Board of State Guarantees, renounce the validation of this decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.17.0	Obviously, if you invoke Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure, and Rule 112, we will consult the Bureau, eh? In any case, counselor, if you expect..., we'll consult the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.18.0	Well, once the Bureau had been consulted, the criteria were that this initiative was obviously already admitted to the Bureau. What we are doing now is the validation of a law decree which, in any case, if the plenary so decides, will be dealt with like the law; therefore, in this process it will be possible to present the precepts that parliamentary groups think appropriate, I insist, if it is decided to deal like the law. And, in any case, and as a matter of fact, the advice of the Board of Statutory Guarantees, they know perfectly well that it is not binding, that it is simply, say, advisory, in the drafting of laws, consulting, exactly not binding. And so, what we're gonna do is follow up with the processing, the validation of this decree. I insist, if you decide mostly to process it as you do, you will have the possibility to make statements and, therefore, to modify the text of the decree that is presented today and, therefore, also to follow the consultation or in this case the opinion that the Council of State Guarantees has determined, eh? So, we're still processing. Counselor, now, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.19.0	Thank you, President. President of the Government, Councillor, Members and Members, we present before all of you for the validation of Decree Law 4/2019, of 29 generation, naming urgent measures in the matter of the transport of passengers by means of the driver's vehicle logger. This refers to taxis and VTCs; in this case, this decree refers exclusively to VTCs. And we have done so, indeed, after the reply of the Council of State Guarantees, of this opinion at the request of the Ciutadans Group, which, as you know, has delivered 'hidilluns'. At the length of the intervention I will refer to it, as it cannot otherwise be, in the same way as I will do around many of the political, party, and Tertulian considerations, if I may, that these days have taken place on the regulation of VTCs; demonstration, sense of doubt, that this is a subject of deep social interest. It has been subject to social controversy and, therefore, demonstrates the company's interest in this regulation that we intend to make from this decree. I want to start, however, with an idea that we believe is the basis of some confusion around what taxis and VTCs represent. We have tried to clarify on many of the occasions that I personally have had at the length of these past weeks, on all of the occasions that have been asked; I think I have multiplied in communication media to look to clarify this confusion, this base of confusion. And, despite the fact that it would seem that when we all explain to each other why, we see with a certain stupefaction that the opinions, this opinion that we were talking about a while ago, do not recall this principle that I will now explain. And we're talking about a confusion about what we're regulating – about what we're regulating. The law we carry today to validation regulates VTCs, and regulates VTCs because VTCs are not taxis, we regulate a different service. The public confusion above when some VTCs try to make a service that does not correspond to them, a service for which they are not authorized. And some justify it with arguments of all kinds: technological, modernity..., and confound, they get to confuse users as well. I'm going back to the opinion. When this regulation harms the competition between taxis and VTCs, when it is said that this regulation harms the competition between taxis and VTCs, it is a basic error, to say the least, of prominent lawyers: they are not competitive mobility services, but complementary. The government has absolutely nothing against the VTCs, we understand them as a service more to the citizenry that is attached to the taxi or public transport. This complementarity – I insist on it, not competition, but complementarity – had allowed a coexistence, a coexistence that was once broken. This is an important concept: cohabitation had broken down. They were designed to live together, and that's how they worked until, under one VTC license, some companies wanted to skip their service environment and invade another. And that's why there are different settings, that's exactly why there are different settings. This is why classic VTC companies, classics, have never had a conflict with the taxi, nor have they had a conflict with this regulation, nor have they had a conflict with the taxi, nor have they had a conflict with this regulation. And that's why there are also VTC companies that operate without problems, today, applying the standards that we have established with the decree that the government approved; without going any further, these days at Mobile World Congress, here in Barcelona, when we saw how many VTC companies were providing their services normally. They can be seen working on the street in front of the hotels. What they haven't seen are VTCs making taxis, but classic VTCs are working with all normality. In fact, we estimate that there are about a thousand VTC licenses in these normally functioning times, those we call classic VTCs, and even all the companies that participate in Mobile have not requested, and 1,500 are not functioning of temporary character, in order to be able to provide specific services to the companies that are on Mobile. They have, therefore, operated with normality, operating with normality. I insist, not taxi fent, with some plataforms, but VTC fent. If competition is so concerned, of which there has been much talk these days, we should ask ourselves why no one is concerned with competition in the VTC sector. There is an excessive concentration of litigation in businesses that want to compete for individual customers. We are talking concretely about four companies that have almost half of the VTC's claims in Catalonia, and this supposes, in a sense of doubt, a concentration that reduces competition and facilitates collusion, the abuse of position in everything you see with prices, and that can capture the customer, the user or the city of oligopolistic practices in an unregulated, free price service. Doesn't anyone care about that– does anyone care about that? It has been said that the fact that Uber – I never like to talk about concrete trademarks, but I think that on this occasion it is inescapable, I will mention – has abandoned Barcelona is a bad message for the entrepreneur, that it is a bad message for the entrepreneur and that it can have hard consequences for the interest that the Catalan capital is a leading city in the digital economy. It is not true – it is not true – and only this warning is understood from a provincial view of our reality, or from a propaganda act in favor of the crematistic interests of this multinational. In fact, a KPMG report just came out on what are the twenty most important tech hubs in the world outside Silicon Valley. Barcelona appears in position 19 – in position 19 – before, for example, Los Angeles and Chicago, which tie in position 20. The European cities that lie ahead, ahead of Barcelona, are London, Berlin, Paris and Amsterdam, three of which have faced Uber at some point, certainly have faced it at some point. The North American cities that appear there, in this race, are New York, Boston, Austin, Washington and San Francisco. As a matter of fact, New York and Austin have also had a lot of trouble with Uber. The rest are Asian. Outside the Chinese, who know that the Chinese government invited Uber to sell the business of this country and disappear, I don't know what the rest of the state is. In any case, this KPMG report implicitly denies that the Uber confrontation involves a loss of fish like the tech hub, implicitly denies it. It is not true, therefore, I repeat, that this Uber March of Barcelona is a bad message for the entrepreneur. First of all, because Uber has conflicts and problems in New York, London, Paris, Berlin – I was referring to a moment ago – where his services, after dealing hard with the administrations, have had to adapt to the established requirements, have had to adapt, and no one believes that these cities have put their technological leadership at risk for this reason, no one believes it. But above all it is not true because the technological leadership of a city like Barcelona cannot be circumscribed 'with Uber's presence, it cannot be circumscribed to this presence. It is other initiatives that make the Barcelona metropolis well placed in this league, in solid positions. And these same days, precisely on the grounds of the Mobile World Congress, they've been presenting themselves. On this issue it is not Uber, but other things that must be of concern to us, such as the decisions taken by the Government of the State during the application of 155 to dilute Barcelona's technological capacity in favor of other cities, all the more so in the past. From the Government of the Generality, from the Assembly of Barcelona and from so many other meetings of the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, metropolitan assemblies, we foster a permanent spirit of collaboration between administrations, and logically with companies, in order to enhance this digital leadership. And also to do it with criteria, without letting us water for approximations, I insist, sometimes provincials. The digital economy will – in fact it will start to be – a profound revolution in our economic model, and we will bet on it. And we believe that the drive of the digital economy must not necessarily be to the detriment of all the progress we have made in the areas of work, consumer protection, compromise with sustainability, urban renewal in favour of people, but the opposite. Therefore, our message is clear: welcome to Catalonia all the digital economy initiatives applied to mobility, the only condition is that it is respectable, and even better, that it is potential, our standards of quality work, social and environmental. Welcome back. And that's the reason we've decided to regulate VTCs. We want you to respect these standards of quality. There are those who claim that we've taken out Uber and Cabify, and it's fake, it's grossly fake. They left because they wanted to. And they did one day for the other, just disconnecting their application. And this is another aspect that deserves reflection too. Is it good to have businesses that can close by their own decision in twenty-four hours and leave hundreds of workers to the state for the sun that do not have them contracted directly? Are you good? Is there any corporate social responsibility in this attitude? There's absolutely no such thing as that. Use the future and the negit of workers as a weapon in their war, which is not creating decent jobs but deregulating mobility services. They haven't tried the regulations for a day or a day. And remember that in the previewed dialog they didn't move a_millimeter– I will mention it – in its position. We're worried about the workers, we're worried a lot, as it can't be otherwise, and the Department of Work – I'm in constant contact with Councilman Chakir – does a thorough follow-up of these regulatory expeditions that have come forward. The taxi sector started from a requirement of twenty-and-four hours of minimum pre-contracting time, starting from this requirement; it expressed itself directly. And after talking to him and negotiating with him, he accepted the fifteen minutes he had to validate his assembly. The VTCs sector, dominated by new business models, is taped to move'sdels zero minutes. That is to say, he demanded to eliminate the pre-contracting that stipulates... that in fact stipulates, the state regulation. Interestingly he wanted to present himself as a victory of the taxi which, through its chanting, has caused the Generalitat to be bent to its interests, say some, and say some. It's a very simple reading of what's happened, very simple. We haven't given in to the cabbies' chanting, if it's that the crowding and busy public road they made is to be considered a chanting. Neither to its chanting nor to the VTCs, we have regulated in favor of the citizens. Nor have we succumbed to the writings that many of us have rejected from the sector. The writings that many of us have rejected from the VTC sector, we have not succumbed. Among these many there are political and administrative burdens, without distinction. And I want to read them an extract from one of these missives – I will do it in castle, because it is just as well as the vam rebre –: "The approval of such decrees law in the terms announced in the press should not be proposed to the Executive Council – to the Government –, "can neither be included in the agenda of the same one nor can it be agreed by it and therefore the dossier of approval of them must be archived. And they will have to do so and act accordingly both to the senior officials and members of the Government who are involved in this dossier and to the officials involved in it, otherwise the company– ics, which addresses this letter to them – « would unfortunately be obliged to exercise as many actions as possible to also demand personal responsibilities of all kinds, including both civil and disciplinary, accounting and any other interveners in the dossiers for the approval of such rules. We are obliged to recall that such actions may result directly or indirectly, inter alia, from the following legal consequences: a very serious disciplinary administrative sanction that could lead to separation of service and/or accounting liability with the resulting penalty and reinstatement. That's what they sent us. This has been rejected by a number of political and official officials in the department. I don't know if this can qualify as blackmail, threat, coercion or cordial and free advice. Nor have we succumbed to a few writings of this kind which, I insist, we have rejected some political leaders and administrators of the Government of the Generality. In any case we've acted. This is a government that rules and we've acted. It is worth remembering that we find ourselves before a complex situation, a veritable nyap administered provoked by the hard negligence of the government of Mariano Rajoy in this matter – hard negligence. And I would like to acknowledge – I want to publicly recognise this – that the Sánchez Government took note of its conflict and its risks and decided to act urgently by means of a real law decree, on 13/2018, which was approved and validated by the Congress of Deputies for a large majority of the past year. In essence, this rule, the royal decree, assumed that the best solution was to be obtained through regulation for the autonomous communities – this is their language – because the territorial realities in this matter are different forces. And we do not complain, in absolute terms, we do not complain in absolute terms of this royal decree, in fact, the political parties that support the Government of the Generality have validated this royal decree at the Congress of Deputies. In fact, we would like to have a margin of action that is much wider and that was not a delegated competence but its own. And I'm sure we'll keep it. Notwithstanding this with the royal decree, this royal decree law, which is ugly, was to transfer the urgency of the situation, of the moment, to the Generality, and that is why we have made this decree. We weren't going to wait... – I'm sorry – in principle, we were going to wait for trams like the bill, then I'll talk about it, because it got blocked. In short, the Generality has assumed this responsibility as the government, the governing government, but it also makes clear that it is a short-term response to a short-term problem. In fact, the president yesterday in ugly reference in his answer to the question of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. We are aware that it is not a definitive solution – we are aware that it is not a definitive solution – to the change that will occur in the sector. We could say we're a government that rules, but we're not idiots. Therefore, the action that we are doing now in no case serves to postpone or encourage the structural response. What we claim with this decree is like the least of two aspects. First, to close existing empty administrations, existing huge empty administrations and to gain time rigorously to deal with structural reforms with a law that, as you know, we are already working on, I have said on various occasions and have also had occasion to speak to you personally with some of you, and that, in fact, we want to present the memoir to the month of April; the memory and the immediate passage of an integral law regulating the transport of passengers with vehicles of tourism of less than new places. It is true that in the validation of the royal decree of the State, which I referred to earlier, it was decided to process it as well as the draft of the law, in fact, we were proposed by the political groups that support the Government of the Generality and, for that reason, someone asked that we wait for the completion of this process – I said a moment ago – and, finally, we did not consider it appropriate. First of all, because the royal decree is fully in force; it was approved by the government, it is validated and it is fully in force. And, second of all, because there was no prediction of when this bill could be approved, precisely because of the obstructive attitude of Ciutadans and PP at the Bureau of Congress. And I want to press charges. The parliamentary groups in Ciutadans and the PP that hold the majority at the Congress Table of Deputies have obstructed the processing of the royal decree as a bill with the delaying tactic of extending the term of statements. Finally, in addition to – and this is defined – the dissolution of the Courts has made it clear that advancing in our decree was the chosen option. The dilatatory tactics of Ciutadans and the PP formed part, I insist, and I thus believe, of the same tactics of deregulation and introduction of neoliberal concepts into our economy. Citizens and the PP, two groups that have already publicly expressed their opinion on the law decree that we are taking to validate today. The only one we would like to subrate is that we have found a lack of coherence in their proclamations. They always want to make sure that the law and the order of what they can do and what they can't do. What it is possible to do and what it is not possible to do is summarize in a concept, in a concept_sol, that is that VTCs are not taxis. This is a decree that I had, that has an emergency character because the situation so required. It is also transitory, I insist, as the President himself said yesterday and rigorous, of course, to the hope of this comprehensive law that I say to them that we have begun addressing..., addressing, for example, what vehicles will be like; the training of drivers; the complaints– this is a very important debate–, if you need to rescue some of the taxis, if you need to control those of VTC that are idle..., the sanctions; the services; among many other aspects. Full school. As well, let's also ministrate that it powerfully calls attention to the fact that a decree law of six plans – of six plans – practically three parts of which are the preliminary memory, has generated so many lines of ink and so much expectation. Let us hope that they will agree with us that we are only fixing ourselves with the report of the Council of State Guarantees, the opinion, we are talking about seventy-three plans. Our decree law is of six plans, President. It is a temporary and rigorous solution to the chaos that has existed, to the normal void that causes companies to act whatever they want. The report of the Council of State Guarantees – I would like to refer to two, two concrete aspects of this opinion – warns about the patrimonial responsibility, the fact. The Council of State Guarantees warns of patrimonial responsibility, assuming that the decree detailes the trading possibilities of the VTCs; it does so from this assumption, and takes advantage of the argument that the royal decree of the State speaks of it, but it is that the royal decree actually, yes, changes the laws, conditions, because, in fact, prevents them from acting in urban paths without additional territorial authority. Our decree law – our decree law – does not introduce any more changes, but introduces mechanisms that give guarantee, that act within the limits they have – that act within the limits they have – that they have assigned. It is not indemnifiable – it is not indemnifiable – that some VTCs stop doing what they can't do – it is not indemnifiable that some VTCs stop doing what they can't do. This was a first point I wanted to mention. And, in fact, the second point is the only one that casts doubt on the advice of the Council of State Guarantees – the only one – which is that it is possible to fix a pre-contracting time, and attributes it, in its literal sense, to a possible restriction of the freedom of enterprise. The advance report of the Legal Office of the Generality, that this is the precept and binding, the one that serves to bring to approval and to be able to bring here to Parliament to validate a decree, endorses the adequacy and proportionality of this measure; the report of the Legal Office, that is the precept and binding, and indicates, this report of the Legal Office, that this restriction must respond to reasons of general interest that compete in the present case – there are – and whenever there is no less restricted or distorting medium of the economic activity, and, according to the limitations of traffic and customer uptake material of VTCs, the establishment of this time of hope that the non-objective interface does not derive from the existing material. Therefore, it develops the capacities of the Government of the Generality. The Board of State Guarantees, in its opinion, seems to give on the assumption that this minimum time interval of fifteen minutes effectively prevents the provision of the service, an appreciation of which we disagree, since it is a time interval that allows to make compatible the requirement of pre-contracting with the inn at the disposal of the customer's services in a term that is not more reasonable than necessary to guarantee precisely the compliment of the same pre-contracting concept – to guarantee the concept of pre-contracting. And, moreover, when you set a uniform condition for all companies, you do not affect the freedom of business; you set it evenly with this decree to all companies; you do not affect, I insist, the freedom of business. And, throughout Europe, each country has introduced elements that condition how VTCs can operate, precisely because they have to play a different role in the taxi. The 15-minute pre-contracting proposal is not original – it is not original – we have not invented it as the Government of the Generality. In fact, it has already proposed France – it has proposed France. It was said, and said in the opinion, that the Conseil d'Etat of this country, of France, dropped it because it constituted a serious obstacle to the market, and it is not true – it is not true. He dropped it because it was settled by decree when it was to be addressed by law... simply by a formal matter. And we're doing it for the law, because a law decree takes precedence over the law. We've looked at each other very well – we've looked at each other very well. And, looking very well, we have agreed that the decree introducing the 15 minutes of pre-contracting time to the French VTCs, the decree introducing these 15 minutes of time to France, was signed by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism, Mrs Sylvia Pinel, and the Minister of the Interior, Manuel Valls. [[Greetings.]] You're good at this, huh? - You're a good one, huh? [[Rialles.]] The star candidate of Ciutadans, started giving us lessons with what we have to do with this theme [[applause]] Mr. Manuel Valls himself, who also gives us lessons with articles published in national newspapers, when he was able to do something, precisely did what the Government of the Generality is doing, which is not a guarantee that we want to do it strictly; in fact, that's why we are talking about making an integral law immediately. Or I didn't know what I did when I signed the law of France, or I didn't know what I did when I signed the article of La Vanguardia. [[relays]] But, in any case, it is still a paradox. [[Greetings.]] Your candidate. With this I want to say – with this I want to say – and I return to the rigour of intervention, if I may, that we are living a conflict that is not excluded from Catalonia; it is not, it is not excluded from Catalonia, but general to Europe, and that is conducive to a transition stage between models. This is the crucial point, the crucial point that you cannot lose sight of at any time – at any time. We had a consolidated model of service delivery of mobility and the emergence of advanced technologies the altera in depth – the altera in depth – we know that. We know that in two years he will have experienced sensitive changes, and that in the past thirty will be unrecognizable respect for the present. And, between the maximum resistance to these changes in order to protect the current status of some and others as long as possible, or to allow it to occur spontaneously, and we actors move the current ones through a competition in unequal and favourable conditions for them, because they do not have to assume the obligations that traditional actors have, between one thing and the other, we understand that the responsibility of the government – the responsibility of the government – that governs has to combine two proposals. First, to order the transition to the new model, according to both the willingness to have a country able to give response to the challenges of modernity, such as the emphasis on the best offer of mobility to citizens– the best offer of mobility to citizens–, respecting the principles of sustainability and reliability. And, secondly, to promote and collaborate with the current sectors so that they are on condition, with the current actors, with all the current actors, to competitively offer their services in a new model of mobility. And that means that if we don't design and pilot ourselves, the governments, the new rules of the game, and this transition to get there, they will dissipate and impose them on us, and that can't be. We must all be active and not resist these inevitable changes. They ask, therefore, that I address all the Members of this House, who validate the decree, that the Validator with the conviction that we are taking a necessary step to order the sector before is not consolidated some offers of services that are not equipped for the legislation of land transport. And we have undertaken, like the government, to deal immediately with the full law regulating the transport of passengers in passenger vehicles of less than nine places, and therefore also we demand that we do not give, to this decree law, to this validation, the step that is being dealt with as a bill of law, because, otherwise, we would be very limited with what we can or cannot do; decree law validated, and, immediately, work with this comprehensive law. I made a commitment to submit a memo in the month of April. And I invite you to bring ideas and proposals to the process of drafting this new law, this new law of all mobility services, by means of a vehicle with a driver, we will present it... immediately, this memory, not because we want to cheat so much, just because the processes of drafting a draft law involve this period of time. We want to get it approved as quickly as possible, but they know that any bill has a few months of processing. And I invite everyone, the taxi sector and the VTC employer, to whom I would like to thank, one and the other, who has come to follow this exhibition that I have made as a counselor for the Territories and Sustainability and the debate that parliamentary groups will have. Many thanks to all of you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.20.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now, to position themselves, the parliamentary groups have the word. I, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mrs Marina Bravo; when she wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.21.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, members of the Government ; I also greet the representatives of the sector who accompany us. Well, counselor, I insist on the request made by our spokesman. The Board of State Guarantees is the institution within the Generalitat that ensures that the rules issued by this Parliament or Government are in conformity with the Statute of autonomy and the Spanish Constitution. You know that perfectly well, and I ask you a very simple question: Do you think it is responsible to put to the vote a decree law that does not have the approval of the Board of Guarantees Statutàries? Do you believe that a decree that, according to this institution, violates the right to freedom of enterprise can be the solution to a problem? Don't you see the legal uncertainty you're getting us into? Because we do see it, and we see it with concern. That is why we ask for this opinion from the Council of Guarantees Statutàries, not to block anything, as you said in the media. And now that we have the opinion, it seems incredible to us that they ignore it in this way, it seems incredible to us, it seems dangerous to us and it seems very irresponsible to us. It is a lack of respect for the citizens and it is a lack of respect for public resources, which are undoubtedly putting themselves at risk, but it is that, in addition to being a legal barbarity, which is, and leaving aside this issue, what we also think, that what they are doing with this decree is a disproposal for citizens. Look, to be fair, the truth is that we wouldn't be here if it weren't for the irresponsibility of Mr Sánchez's government, which, guided also by the mermaid chants of populists, had no objection to passing the hot potato to the autonomous communities, and from there came the royal decree Avalos-Mayoral law, which tiny genius. Instead of being courageous, strong or forward-looking legislation, all he did was turn a problem into seventeen problems, he slipped the bundle and opened the door to a lot of different legislation. And there you go, who are also ATLL's, those of disheartening all the warnings, and have soon made the situation worse. Also dragged, of course, by Mrs Colau, as Mr Torra acknowledged yesterday. Although you should already suspect that something was wrong when you asked yourself at some point or almost begged that this regulation should return to Mr. Avalos. But, look, this is a very serious issue, which affects many families, in addition to all users. It affects and has affected all workers who are being affected by the EREs of the VTCs, and it affects, above all, all the families of these taxi drivers who see with fear how seriously this problem is not addressed. And since it is a very serious problem, I want to explain to you why my group is going to vote against this decree. Look, this decree, has never thought about citizenship; they have hardly appointed it, they have hardly appointed users in their intervention. Instead of resolving a conflict, it enquistes it, leaves it there enquisted, and it also generates others, which the opinion itself says. Instead of boosting the taxi, instead of making it go ahead or doing the most competitive, it stagnates it, puts it in a bubble and leaves it out there, and, instead of looking to the future, what it does is looking to the past, to the old regulations; instead of expanding our options, those of all citizens, leaves us without the freedom to choose. And, in this debate, our position is very clear: citizens have to be able to choose between any of the options; there are no good ones and there are no bad ones. What we have to ensure, yes, is that the framework of coexistence is fair. Certainly, that it is not right now, that we have heard, you know, all the demands, just like you, but this is not the solution. The demands are very fair, but we have to move towards a framework of cooperation, not a framework of a larger conflict. Or does it seem to you that it is to advance that a city like Mobile World Congress, in a city like this you cannot use mobility platforms? Do they seem to advance to provoke EREs of hundreds of workers, many of whom were over forty - five years of age and had been out of work for years? And, above all, do you think that, instead of being able to fit in with the new options, protecting all the rights we already have, you do not let us choose? Counselor, you're in time to rectify. We have tried with our intervention, but they are still in time. And they also have many warnings that would justify that decision. The Acco has warned them that this decree harms users, violates the basic principles of competition; it harms, in the city of Mobile, technological innovation, but it is that, if all that does not convince them, what the Acco says, because they also have the opinion of the Council of Guarantees Statutàries. We believe that this is reason enough to withdraw it, and of course we will vote against it, because anything else seems irresponsible to us. We have brought you the opinion here, I am sure you have been able to read it. And then, if any article is suspended or generates a major conflict, because they are not going to blame Spain, which we already know, we know them perfectly well. And this opinion is from an institution of this Generalitat. In any case, there is a paragraph in the opinion which I believe should in no case be omitted. The opinion is very dense and we would like to mention it here, he says: "As regards this last consideration – and it speaks precisely of the time of pre-contracting – "we believe it is important to draw the attention of the Generalitat, that is to say in the opinion, they appeal directly to them: "to draw the attention of the Generalitat to the potential economic claim by the public finances that can boost the business and professional sector affected, as a result of the adoption of Decree Law 4/2019. We do not say that, says the institution of the Generalitat, which ensures that the rules are in conformity with the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy. I look at the warning, that I think you don't need any more explanation. Moreover, it is that this decree law is a patch, it is a very dangerous patch that artificially returns us to the past and does not solve the problems, does not advance towards the safety of the workers who are in the sector today. It is a decree, therefore, as I say, that returns us to the past, and I refuse, I reveal myself against this narrow-mindedness that does not allow us to move forward. I think we can be a little more open and a little more ambitious. This decree, I have already said, does not benefit the users, and I am quite clear that it has not been thought about them; it does not benefit the workers of the VTC, which leaves in the street, but I do not think it benefits the taxi drivers either. I believe that, in fact, with the statements made yesterday by Mr. Torra, that they had to issue this decree to save Mobile – which was said here – the taxi drivers' workers have to feel a little deceived, because that shows that it has not been regulated seriously, that it has not been regulated really thinking about solving the problem. They have to feel deceived when they see that what has been done is to draw a standard to see if they don't read it on Mobile; and that's a shame, because the problem is very serious. The populists have imposed a manic vision of this problem, a vision of good and bad and a vision of zero sum. In this vision they try to see the mobility sector as a fixed, constant cake, to which if a new agent arrives because he takes a piece and less cake remains to be distributed. But mobility is not a matter of zero sum, because the mobility sector is not fixed. There are many more participants in the mobility sector: skateboards fit, shared car fit and of course taxi fit and VTC fit. It has to compete with just rules, which are not now, which now generate a lot of conflict, especially since the number of licenses has grown; before they had another regulation. We need to review all that regulation, but we need to move towards solutions that allow us all to work, especially because that will allow citizens to have a wider choice, and that will improve our progress and our well-being. The mobility sector, as I say, is changing. It's changing and it's very flexible, it adapts. The needs adapt, the demand adapts... For example, there are increasing restrictions on the private vehicle, and we have to look for other ways to move us. Or events like the Mobile, which of course thirty years ago were impossible, and yet we have right now, so, the same number of taxis as we had thirty years ago. And time, even, isn't worth the same now. In this sector there has to be also, we believe, a powerful and competitive taxi, because it is the guarantee of our public service. But we won't get it by putting the taxi in a bubble, which is the only thing you'll get is that the taxi is even less prepared when the next technological disruption comes in. Or do they mean that we are not going to be able to enjoy the technologies we have now, but we are not going to be able to enjoy any technologies that will come into the future either? Look, to address this conflict seriously, we need legislation that we believe should be national, but that in any case it has to modernize and it has to look to the future, it has to ensure genuinely fair competition and it has to give users freedom to choose from all available options. But you can't guarantee any of these three things, because you don't have a project and a vision for Catalonia, nor do you have any interest in meeting the rules...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.22.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.23.0	...doesn't really believe in freedom or equality of any kind. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.24.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Socialist Group Unites for Progress, it is the return of Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.25.0	Counselor, advisor, for professional reasons I had to go to Barcelona airport a few days ago, eleven days ago, and on Tuesdays I visited Mobile. The surprise of this Member was that both at Barcelona airport and at Mobile I was able to see VTC vehicles working. I also saw taxis, obviously. Then I'll go into the box because there's probably VTCs working at Mobile or there's VTCs working at the airport, just like other transport modes. Counselor Calvet, you know we'll validate this government decree, but it's not new, huh? That he threatened him with million-dollar compensation. What's new is Minister Avalos, who, when he approved the Royal Decree 13/2018, September of last year, also threatened the Government of Spain, with millions of compensations for what they have circulated in the communication media in accordance with the decree you made by the Government of the Government of Catalonia, right? It is true that the new technologies, which have entered forcefully, have changed the picture of the public transport of travellers with tourist vehicles in the conjunct of the Spanish State, also to Catalonia and, if it allows me, to take away the world, right? But I think that..., and I will also go into a part of my argumentary to explain why we are supporting the validation of this decree, in the sense that I am convinced, my parliamentary group is convinced that, as we are talking about public transport, it cannot be that a part of public mobility is regulated and a part of mobility, so, obviously taking advantage of the disruption generated by the new technologies, it is resisting, huh? , to have a regulation similar to or with characteristics similar to that of the rest of public transport to our country. This is not a debate that has exclusively affected Catalonia or Spain; this is a debate that has taken place, huh? And probably in other cities the VTCs and above all some digital plataforms..., because I would like to differentiate what is the traditional VTC business from the business that has appeared in function..., that has appeared and that is surely going to stay there, huh? And I won't be the one to discuss it or fight it, but it's true that it changed the rules of the game. What is clear is that transport with vehicles with a driver, unlike the taxi sector – and in any case, I would like to greet representatives of both of the collections who are accompanying us today in this parliamentary session – so you also have a part of their pre-contraction object, huh? And, mirin, the Board of State Guarantees, that it is true that it has drawn up an opinion, eh? I believe that in the central part, in the nuclear part of the decree, as we see it, it has given the Government of the Government of Catalonia the right and given the right to the Government of Spain, which has transferred part of this regulation to the autonomous communities, in this case to the Government of the Government of Catalonia, also to the local administrations, applying the principle of subsidiarity. Because it's not the same regulation that can be made in a city or in a metropolis, like Barcelona, that can be made in another city or metropolis on the other side of the country – I won't put the name in order not to hurt any type of susceptibility, huh? But the nuclear part, I think it hasn't been in question for the Board of State Guarantees. Here we have fixed ourselves on the theme of the fifteen minutes or the theme of the hour, eh? but my parliamentary group and this Member feel that these are not the central aspects of what we are discussing at this time. What's the nuclear aspect? The nuclear aspect is that, if a pre-contraction is to be carried out, huh? , in which the Council of State Guarantees gave him the reason why he articulated this theme the Government is in the geolocation... It is to say, when a taxi passes by the street, raise your hand..., well, you go to the stop or raise your hand, and it stops, huh? The subject of geolocation is a similar one. So... And so, it doesn't allow pre-contracting, we don't cheat, we don't cheat on the lonely, huh? So, the moment the State Guarantee Board says, "No, no, that's what the government has done, to say that VTC cars can't go geolocalized for the contract and that, once their service is finished, they have to go back to the base, to me that someone explained to me, huh? Because I just didn't hear it, the fact that we're looking at the fifteen minutes or the hour, because that's not it anymore. The central issue of regulation is this other issue, from our point of view. So, what the Government of the Generality has done is why the Royal Decree 13/2018 enabled you and other communities, huh? , or other local entities, that until now no one had finished articulating or using this prerogative there. So, what sets this royal decree is that it is possible to modify the operating conditions of the VTCs, incorporate these conditions of pre-contracting, the request for service, the recruitment of customers, of minimum and maximum recourses, of the services, timetables, etc. So, I think what happened is exactly this question. And, in addition, we have a parent who has also applied criteria that the European Union, which the Commission has put on the table, has, eh? , and they are the ones who inspire sustainable urban mobility policies. And, therefore, the recommendations of the European Union are also being applied in this sense, that what is going on in the line of promoting integrated mobility policies, eh? Because I believe that VTCs are already part of the mobility package that citizens have right to use, as we have right to use the subway, or rollers, or a taxi, or a bus. And, therefore, how do we have the right to use all these modes of transport, the one to be done by the Administration, which recommends the European Union..., the one that the Government of Spain – the present, eh? Pedro Sánchez's – I think – and I am glad, that we agree with the Government of the Government of Catalonia in this case – is that all these policies must be integrated. And if they are to be integrated they have to be regulated – they have to be regulated – it doesn't mean that what has already passed them to other cities of the world – to California, New York, Paris, Berlin, London... – that they have or have had the same problems that we have at these times, eh? That for – and I will be allowed to express – the market will be blown up by the callers, attracted to the user; when they destroy the opponent, they support the press, eh? And it turns out that the candidate for the presidency of the United States, in the later presidential elections, Mrs. Hillary Clinton, defined exactly, huh? , that we enter the economy of txapusa. Therefore, as we do not want to enter the economy of txapusa, as we believe that it has traded for all modes of transport, and because we also want to guarantee the quality of the service and, above all, the rights of users, we believe that it is necessary to regulate all modes of public transport. Therefore, we will support the validation of this decree, hoping that it will be passed as soon as possible on this law that must allow us an open debate with everyone, with all sectors. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.26.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mr David Cid. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.27.0	Well, I think the debate we have today is not a minor debate, I think it's an exhibition of the debates we'll have in the next few years, because around this debate too..., but especially I think of the Ciutadans Group: wanting to spin someone around whether the technology is good or bad, right? You know, around you... there are groups that are in favor of the new and there are groups that are in favor of the old, huh? And I think it's looking for..., when some groups like our female critics to great conglomerates, to great digital plataforms, in this case like Uber, Cabify, Glovo, Airbnb or Amazon..., to be against the technological adventure or to be against the new technologies, the digital adventures or even the adventure in the field of robotics. And I think the real debate, the debate we have today, that we start, about regulation, right? , in this case of the transport of passengers with vehicles with driver, it is about the saving capitalism versus the regulation of the markets. I think this is the debate that we have on the table and that we will have our own years. And in the end, if we don't limit ourselves to these big conglomerates, to which we are going to a society based on digital slavery, it's to say, with less rights and less freedom under a supposed advent of technology. Miri, we are aware that there are many young people, especially the new generations, who see with good eyes the possibility of, through the new technologies, the use of plataforms like Uber and Cabify, and we also address them and we give them: "Look, listen, the groups that defend, like Citizens and the PP, these plataforms for which they bet is for a "bareness" of the society. Yes, this term has been used; what I mean is to increase the precariousness especially of these young generations, because, in the end, in the end, without regulation, without standards, without limits, is the field-that-can. And, therefore, the field-that-be is the benefit of a few in front of the rights of many and many. And that's what we're discussing today. Why, for example, do you say, no? , Ciutadans : "Uber marxa de Barcelona. What's the matter with you? No; if Uber has already left Catalonia, Barcelona and Spain. I'll explain what Uber is. Uber is a digital platform that remains 25_per_cent of each server. Do you know where 25_per_cent of each service is billed? The Netherlands. To you, the supposed patriots who possess the flag of Spain and who more celebrate the flag of Spain all day, I make them a proposal: change the flag of Spain of the cannell or change the flag of LGTBI that they make to cover their acts of shame with Vox for the Dutch flag, and from then on we can talk about you being the patriots of Holland, because in the end Uber pays, pays the taxes to Holland. And that's what you're defending. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, in the end, before the flag patriots, we defended the rights of the people and defended the rights, for example, of the fourteen thousand families living in the metropolitan area and working and living in the taxi. And we could talk about Glovo, that in this case, right? , uses false autonomies, when in reality they are direct workers. And we could talk about Airbnb, which shoots, in this case, also, using flats without tourist license, housing prices to many European cities, and especially in Barcelona and the metropolitan area. Or we could talk about Amazon, which is a company that limits, in this case, for example, trade union freedom and pays wages of misery. And that's what we're talking about. And that's why we're also addressing young people in particular. We're in front of a fight between a low-wage model, precariousness, in this case, aren't we? , which affects a lot of the company, and which, hopefully, can still earn nine hundred euros, because a few won a lot. And this is the City model and this is the PP model, and this is what they defend when they're defending plataformas like Uber and Cabify: misery wages, before you call it, in this case, altissimo, yes, with a 5G mobile at hand. This is his model of society. This is his model of modernity. And we're already telling them we won't pass. And it has nothing to do with being against or in favour of technology, that obviously we are also in favour of technological advances and that Barcelona is the tip of the line in this case, not only with Mobile, but with many start-ups that are invested in this case as well in Barcelona. And, look, you're talking about limiting free competition. I'll also explain what they are, many times. Because you're talking to us about VTCs as if they were individual autonomies that have a business... I'm not saying that this isn't true, it's obvious that there is, but we're talking..., this also exists, but we're talking that between 40 and 50 percent of VTC claims are in the hands of big companies. I'll tell you some names. Rosauro Varo, seven hundred VTC licenses, in the hands of Vector Ronda ; Ares Capital, six hundred VTC licenses ; Auro, three thousand VTC licenses ; Moove Cars, in three hundred teas and will reach four thousand. We are not talking about people, families, who have a business and who are autonomous; we are talking about big companies that use technology and in this case use plataforms like Uber and Cabify to refocus the service and, therefore, in any case, to limit competition. And anyway, we're talking about this. And we, of course, and we have also shared it with the councillor, we are in favour of a new comprehensive law of mobility that allows the modernization of the taxi sector more than anything else. But, listen, there are already applications from the taxi that allow the taxi service to be contracted through technological plataforms. If that already exists. And in everything that modernises the service, improves the service, we will find it and we will put it from the first day, in this case, to work for the best of the taxi sector which, obviously, as the same Supreme Court recognizes, is a sector that has intense regulation because, in this case, it is a service of general interest and therefore can also have special protection. We also want to make an assessment of the opinion of the Board of State Guarantees in this case. Mirin, stop saying..., take the part for everything and, in any case, tell lies. That is to say, the Board of State Guarantees is not charged with the law decree made in this case by the Generality. Because the statutory guarantee board supports different things from the decree. First, it justifies the urgency and the need, therefore, the ability to make a law decree and, in any case, to validate it without having to develop a law. Second, it recognizes the differentiated character of two servers, i.e., the VTC and the taxi. Third, in this case, reposition the same element, that is, we are before a different mode of discretionary transport, the VTC, of the case of the taxi service. And besides, it also supports the ability you have in this case, doesn't it? , the Generality to regulate this service and especially to transfer some of these competitions to the Metropolitan Area. As I said, what the Supreme Court also endorses is that the taxi deserves special protection as a service of general interest. Moreover, she also, as I said, recognizes the Generality's ability that both the joints as well as the AMB have their own powers to be able, therefore, to regulate or deepen in this decree. And, moreover, the decree supports, as Mr. Terrades said in this case, that the ability of VTCs to park and travel by public way to capture customers is prohibited – so this also supports it –; it prohibits the geolocation of VTCs – so it also supports it – and, more importantly, what also allows the decree to decree is that the remaining limitations placed in this case by the decree are perfectly valid. And, look, the decree supports pre-contracting... well, the decree supports the limitation of pre-contracting. And that's what's... the one limiting the decree or the one considering the decree that can't be done, and we disagree, is that the way to limit pre-contraction can be fifteen minutes. We disagree; there are also legal reports from the Metropolitan Area, written in this case even for the Polytechnic University of Catalonia, which endorse it. Why, look, I..., for me it's an oximoron; it's like, if there's no time between pre-contracting and contracting, what's the difference between contracting and pre-contracting? There isn't. And, besides, if there is no time between pre-contracting and contracting, how can the user's right be guaranteed to reject a service he has contracted? Therefore, we believe that it is fully..., despite what the Council of State Guarantees says, we believe, with legal reports, that it is fully constitutional in this case what it has done, right? The generality, and we'll give support and more to more complaints than it's passed on to the bill. And, besides, if you, as they say, have read in this case the advice of the Board of Statutory Guarantees..., it is that, as the counselor said, we are not inventing anything, if you say the same opinion. Miri, I'll give you some examples. Paris: Cars cannot park or move on public roads to capture all users and, moreover, the location of vehicles is not allowed. Berlin : It also applies limitations, so..., for example, force in this case the VTC services to return to the base after one service, in this case when they have lent it..., and cannot stay on the public road unless they have another contracted service. Rome : also establishes the need to pre-contract the service, so... And even we could talk about Brussels, which requires a three-hour pre-contracting time in the VTC contract. Therefore, we are doing nothing more than what is being done to the whole of the European Union. And, look, I want to end up with a recon. The counselor knows that we often disagree; we have also had debates about respect, but I would say punishes. You know, for example, that we don't share, right? Your suggestion of assumptions, but I also think it's honest on our part to recognize when things are going well. We may not have started in the best way, but there has been a dialogue and a dialogue in this case on the part of the Government of the Generality; we have been able to discuss the decree, we have been able in this case also to deal with it, we have been able, therefore, also to discuss it and, therefore, to reach agreement. And I do believe in this case that it is justiciable to make a recognizance in this case to the councillor of Territory and Sustainability for the ability to dialogue and reach agreements. And I think it's also worth saying. Sometimes they disagree, sometimes they also wake up. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.28.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.29.0	In order to advance that the feeling of our vote will be in favor, and more with all our strength. And we wanted to make a little reference. Before he spoke of potential claims for damages and damages, there were also complaints. And to those of us who have announced their quarrels, we give them the opportunity to learn how to fight the lithium, to bring the legal action well, and to extend the legal complaint that they have announced against all the deputies and the deputies that we have approved the decree. Wait till they do. [[applause]] Let us hope that they will bring us before justice to defend us, because some and some of us do not have any for when there has been repression from before, nor only when they claim to be legal repression. Also, on the material content of the decree, we are absolutely in agreement that there is an expansion of the affectation to vehicles up to nine places; the modification that refers to the need for regular services to be entered in the registers; the concrete question of how the competence, order and administrative intervention of the urban transport of travellers to locals is transferred, in this case to all locations, and which will mean that it is through the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona in the metropolitan area, and above all the centrality of the decree, that for a band it is the fifteen minutes already guaranteed of pre-contracting – we say that we have returned to six locations; it is the difference that we have – but above all this accompanied by a group that is the fifteen minutes already guaranteed of pre-contracting – that we have, in fact, been in the past six times; it is the difference that we have – but above all the centrality of the decree, that for a band it is the fifteen minutes already guaranteed of pre-contracting; it is not the case that the service is based on the service. We also refer to the fact that we agree with the later amendment incorporated in Article 5, which is the possibility of creating a vehicle register at the local level. But we don't think we're discussing just a matter of a little regulatory change, but we're in front of a real discussion that's a model battle. And it's a model battle that doesn't only affect the taxi and VTC sector, but it affects the company's joint venture. In the current phase of crisis of capitalism, unfortunately, unfortunately, there are companies that have a reality of multi-millionaire benefits, so many multi-millionaire benefits that they do not have clarity and no investment in these multi-millionaire benefits, and at a time of crisis like today they decide that there are two sectors to invest these multi-millionaire benefits: for one band, the public services, the little that is still managed directly, and for another band, where we name the regulated sectors. And the taxi, by luck, was a regular sector. And what they did the last few months, not to mention the last few years, was the classic intervention manual and assault on regular sectors. First, these investment groups that generate certain enterprises that begin to act outside the law, knowing perfectly well that they are doing so outside the law, but with the prospect of straining the sector. According to these same investment groups that also have investments in communication media and that ask them and impose on them the speech they have to make, the false one that there is no competition and that of going to criminalize the workers and the workers who defend their father. Third, go tell your political representatives what to do, that they have them here, the political representatives of the VTC sectors, they have them here, and they are direct transmission correctness. And, fourthly, to make appear the suspicious and the usual suspicions, those that in a public administration and expression of the public administration, as they are the ones of competence, do not go for the competence when it is the great enterprises that blow it up but the only one that really worries them is the deregulation of rights, the loss of rights. And the central battle we have with this discussion. The central battle that is given and will be given is, for a band, if we guarantee a regular taxi service, which means that the Administration is the one that determines how many vehicles there are on the street, which means that there are prices fixed in an objective way, which means decent labor guarantees and companies paying taxes and autonomously to our country..., or that we let the VTCs into which they are not, to the taxi sector, which clearly means that they collapsing the traffic, which means that they would first lower a lot of prices for then going to blow up and put the highest prices without control, which means that they do not guarantee the universal service, which means lack of labor guarantees and that they are companies that do not pay all their taxes to our country. This is the central battle and the essential battle. By chance, in other sectors they have succeeded, but here, in the taxi sector, they have failed. And if today we are speaking in this Parliament of validation of this decree it is not for the deputies and the deputies, it is for those lords and those lords that there are, that it is the taxi drivers who decided not to bend and use the best methods of the working movement and the union movement that we have held to the length of history to defend our rights: assemblies, general waves, indefinite waves, and so on, that is that the workers and the workers and the citizens decide in ballot boxes. Thank you very much. Yes to the taxi decree, and yes to continue fighting. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.30.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.31.0	Thank you, President. Counseling, advising, parliamentarians, deputies and people from both the taxi sector and the VTCs who are accompanying us today in this debate... I wanted to start by referring in some way to the paradox that supposes that we are at one stage, at a long stage of the technological revolution that satisfies us extraordinarily all and that we have, so this week with the most exponent – it has already been quoted by other people – with Mobile, where technological advances are presented... If you allow me, I will quote another firm that starts today and seems to me to be equally relevant, or more uplifting, all that will have less media space, such as the Exponent's present project. And the paradox is: what message do we send from the Administration, that we are betting on technological development, when then, at the time of incorporating technological developments into our daily lives to improve the quality of life of citizens, we limit the application of technological developments? Therefore, we believe that this is a paradox that we needed to put into evidence. What is the role of the Administration before this situation? Double. One, driving technological advances, and, in fact, we do it continuously, we do it in every plenary. Then we'll talk about a young lady to promote knowledge, obviously. But we have another paper, which is to arbitrate the incorporation of technologies into everyday life. And this is the paper that, with this decree that we are debating today its validation or not, we are debating. They'll let me, there's already been one who cited Rajoy as responsible, and Sanchez was also quoted, but I think they've forgotten the real responsibility for today's debate and the conflicts that have arisen: Zapatero, the year 2009, the abolition of the limitation of a VTC for every thirty taxis. And this is the key – this is the key. Because from that suppression..., which was certainly to be represented at that time, that moment had to represent the opportunity to try to find an orderly transition from one model to another, in which the incorporation of technologies made possible the coexistence between these two sectors..., was lost that opportunity in the year 2009. And from there the creature weeps, and from there sees the imbalance of litigation between one sector and the other sector we have today. Now, we are in front of a law decree and a royal law decree that for us they are bad solutions; more than bad solutions, they are not solutions, on the contrary, complicate the coexistence of the sectors. Counselor, I deny the Major. The VTC sector and the taxi sector are complementary, yes, but they also compete. Fixed, taxis have the exclusivity of picking up customers on their way or in parades, which are exclusive of taxis, so to speak. But they can also do pre-contracting. And VTCs operate only on a pre-contract basis. Therefore, here there is competition between the taxi and the VTCs – yes, counselor, yes – here there is competition between the taxi and the VTCs. And it's like we're going out to play a football game and one of the teams says, "But you hang out with the players with your hands tied. Why? The royal decree imposes conditions only on a sector, VTCs; the decree you propose to us today lays down conditions only on a sector, which is that of VTCs. Therefore, here is where both the royal decree of the State, of Mr. Sanchez, sin, as the decree that you bring us to validation today. But, more than that, look at something else. You say to us: "Essultine, that of the responsibilities of the heritage, that are threats, I don't know what, I don't know how many... Esconti'm, Catalan Agency of the Competition, its president is a prominent militant of the Republican Esquerra, that more to you the god knows because it is of Sant Cugat, and he has been director of Sant Cugat - prominent militant of the Republican Esquerra - ; Council of Guarantees Statutarias, the resolution the arrangement for unanimous, and most of the members are appointed for the government and for the parliamentary groups that support the Government, but it is that they adopt for unanimous. So, man, listen to me, I don't think there's any harm in this sense in relation to this one. We are convinced that this decree harms the sector, [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] It harms the mobility sector, it harms VTCs, it doesn't contribute...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.32.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.33.0	...to order the sector...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.34.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.35.0	... and, therefore – and I finish, President – how there is the doubt expressed by the Council of State Guarantees in relation to the constitutionality of some of these articles, we do call on Article 158.4 of the Rules to request the processing of this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.36.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.37.0	...decree with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.38.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.39.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, people from the public who accompany us, from the taxi sector, from the VTC sector... For a point of order, leave a point of order respecting some statement made by the late intervener, Mr. Rodriguez, asserting, making a statement that a Republican leftist militant is responsible for a VTC area. That's not true, is it? And anyway, I'd like to know... and I'm worried that I have some data, and more so if they're incorrect. But in any case, we would like to make this point clear. Next month, let's say, of this anticipated element, we would like to argue that this decree law or the validation of this decree law is an opportunity of this Parliament to enter, to begin a debate on an element that is important and that will affect us, as the counselor pointed out. It's not a debate, let's say, it's not a piece as someone tried to make him see, but it's, in any case, a one-time action with a one-time will, which is ultimately the mechanism of the laws. The decrees do not attempt to affect or try to regulate the totality of an area only in a concrete matter with concrete measures in a context where, as has been clearly explained, enough for other actors, especially for the councillor, has left the regulation of the State..., leaves some holes that we must compliment, we must above all give legal certainty to the different operators that there is on the table. And, therefore, from this point of view we believe that it is important to make this decree and validate it. And yet, as the Councillor pointed out in his intervention, we believe that this debate cannot only be said in the field of pre-contracting, but we believe that it is necessary to address a broad and social debate in many areas. We understand that the debate on mobility, especially in the area of the city of Barcelona and its metropolitan environment, has various implications. One, about the same mobility, about the right to the mobility of the citizenry in this environment. It also basically affects traffic congestion and also the environmental rights of citizens living in this territorial area. And then we also have other rights that we care about and that need to be fixed and addressed, such as workers' labour rights across the sector and also business management models. And, in short, we believe that this is the debate that we need to address. And we need to approach it calmly, feel there all the sectors affected, feel there all the administrations affected, especially in the area of the metropolitan area. And that, in any case, must allow a serious debate, a debate on a model of the future. A mobility that will change in the next few years, a mobility that will not be like us now, but certainly in the next few years – as we have seen that the emergence of the new technologies has already made some changes, put some changes in the mobility of the citizenry – will also operate other technological changes that will also force us to rethink this model. And that's what we have to do, but above all, I insist, guaranteeing these rights. These rights that someone, and has also exposed himself, someone in virtue or in post of modernity, huh? Some accuse us of provincials, but in any case what is at stake are also the rights of the citizens. And if we don't guarantee them from the public administration, these rights, after all, safe, there! We'll cry that these rights have been lost and then we'll have to take action to get them back. We believe that the report of the Guarantee Board, as it stood, is true that it touches or in any case raises the question of the constitutionality of some of the elements of pre-contracting, we believe that in its large part it supports this decree. I... therefore, let's say, from the point of view already of the powers of the Government of the Generality to pull forward this..., there are enough enabling titles as to pull forward this decree; the urgency is justified and, therefore, from this point of view we understand that what the Council of State Guarantees does in this sense is to enter into a single issue. In any case, we also understand that it is basically the competence of this parliamentary chamber to decide who are the mechanisms to define this pre-contraction. It is obvious, and has already been said on various occasions, that the situation of the coexistence of the VTCs and the taxi sector has been a coexistence that has been maintained over time. Therefore, it does not seem..., and perhaps for one part of the citizenry it may be that the debate is now going on and that there is a conflict, but in any case the coexistence between one sector and another has existed. It's obvious that the moment the balance is broken, the moment the 1/30 balance is broken is when we enter a jungle, it's when we enter an element and it's..., as the counselor pointed out, it's when someone tries to do some of the functions that don't correspond to it. This is where we have to plant... and that's where the standards of the game are broken. And this is the element that we need to discuss in this future model of mobility. It is obvious that the situation changes; it is also possible that the standards of the game have to be changed and that everyone has to be changed. We need an adaptation of the whole sector to the new standards of play, but everyone does it with the same conditions of equality. And this is the element that we're going to debate, and this is the fundamental core that we're going to debate in our own months; this element of debate about the situation of mobility. We believe that, I insist, this element of coexistence has existed. We need to make sure that you continue to exist, but in any case, we need to avoid from all the competence that there may be and we need to..., and above all what is a right of citizenship – a right –: guarantee the right of citizenship to mobility. These new business models linked to technological innovation, which some understand with the collaborative economy, that some want to see that it is the collaborative economy, in short, are not so. It is a type of business many times that after, let's say, technology operators, settle in other places. Generate some opacity heads where citizens' rights, where consumers' rights are aborted; where the rights, let's say, of citizens..., and above all social insecurity is on the order of the day. Therefore, from this point of view, it seems essential that the Administration rules of all these areas. It is clear that we have to be in favour of the new technologies, and they have come and will stay there. But in any case, this is not to the detriment of these rights that we have as citizens. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to avoid oligopolises, that it does not pass us, as in other places, that already, at these times..., we believe that they are already, let us say, that it has been seen that the experience of leaving this deregulation of the market, this situation where only the offer has been able to enter the market, has ended by breaking the traditional sectors, has ended up breaking the capacity of all the citizens to enjoy some services under conditions. They think... huh? , we insist that the entry into the market of a multitude of VTC litigations, in this case, and technological developments have overcome this balance, which was absolutely necessary. They think we should be able to return to this element. Also – and we are very clear – that, in any case, there is an element of this equation in the assessment of the future debate that is the whole issue of the current cases and all the transposition of the cases. We need to go to another litigation model. We believe that we have to go to a model where the Administration is the sole holder of these cases and that, in any case, they can be recovered for the same Administration without the possibility of transposition, and that this is the one that rules through the award, through public contracts for those people who complete conditions. And it seems to us that this is the model. A clear model, a transparent model and that, in any case, everyone has access to it from accessing with the nine..., on equal terms. We believe that this also breaks with that element, we insist, the problem is not between the taxi and the VTCs; someone wanted to face the taxi and the VTCs. It's not that speech, it's not that problem. The problem is the technological platforms that accumulate hundreds and hundreds of lawsuits, that are also difficult, that do not guarantee labor rights, in many cases, some of the citizens and some of the workers, and those that accumulate the quantity, let us say, of lawsuits that break, of all, the proportionality that must be there. We also believe, and it is obvious, that the taxi sector must also enter an element of modernization, it must be accompanied by this element of modernization of the taxi, which allows everyone to enter the same conditions. We must operate, among all we must see who are those changes that must lead us to maintain this capacity and this equality among all. We understand that these two ways sufficiently differentiated for their attributes, but endowed with a homogeneous legal framework, we have to contemplate which are their differences, we have to contemplate which are the elements that assemble them, but that, in any case, what we have to do is to regulate it in equal terms. From Esquerra we offer this dialog to ensure a more sustainable mobility, which is guaranteed the rights of citizens and the rights of workers from both sectors and a quality of service. And let me, finally, make an intervention, some worry a lot about the right of option, they say that the VTCs and the taxi that you want to guarantee is the right of the citizens' right of option. I'm telling you that so much good defense in other areas of this city's right of option and that, so, you should avoid keeping people in jail for giving the right of option to the city. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.40.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr. Eduard Pujol has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.41.0	Well, good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good day representatives of the taxi and VTC sectors. Honourable Counselor of Territori, Damia Calvet, you will see that you go down, that you are not really frivolous, but if you don't do anything about it, I will start talking about football. And no, I don't want to talk about football just because, yesterday, after hitting Bernabéu, in Gerard Picqué you manage very well the value of someone's opinion that has a huge social responsibility, with courage and usual intelligence, I suppose you already know, Picqué, yesterday, has nailed a huge hole in the consciousness of public opinion. Piqué, after a 0 to 3 in the camp of Madrid, asked to speak less about the justice of the VAR, the technology applied to arbitrage and football, and more about the injustice suffered by political prisoners. Thank you, therefore, for placing this groceries, this huge common sense groceries in the form of appropriate and timely reflection. But if I told him I wanted to start talking about football, it's 0-3, huh? A 0 to 3 is inspiring and, in my case, memory activator, I have this flask, memory. By September 1984, Felipe and Pujol had absolute majorities, 84– and now they see why I'm talking about football – the Barça de Venables and Schuster went to Bernabéu on the first day of the league championship and surprised everyone with a 0-3. Congressman Riera remembers, because he has my age, there are no pictures of that party, because there were some other time and there was the war on television and football. Then, Barcelona's majority taxi was supposed to be the Seat 131, Supermirafiori, and it still has to circulate – yes, yes, the Supermirafiori, which made a smoke – yes, a few Seat 1500, which are taxis. Later, on November 19, 2005, the newspaper will find it with date 20-N, 2005, the Barça de Ronaldinho and d'Eto'o made Bernabeu change again with another 0 to 3. In Barcelona, then, in 2005, taxis continued to feel diesel cars: Peugeot, Seat, Skoda, prepared to make many kilometers. I, yesterday, February 2019, match of Cup and with Messi i Suárez, patapam, another 0 to 3. Thirty-five years after Schuster's 0-3, another 0-3, now, with televisions at the station, with drawings of thousands of mobile phones at the gate to take 'nymatges' and Seat 131 is a relic and, today, the most coming taxis would say that they are Toyota, or Toyota's house, hybrids. All this talk brings us to the starting point [[remorse of the voice]] Yes, the football circle has changed, but the emotion of a squabble is kept intact. In the urban world, taxis have changed, they spend less, they are cleaner and, in the changing, our legislation has changed a little, while the essence continues to feel mobility and the transport of people. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.42.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.43.0	What a contradiction! Our legislation has traditionally changed a little in a changing world and, in change, involves a very dynamic standard framework, with a Community service directive that has forced us to rethink many realities. And what happened? So, the government of Catalonia has taken over and taken over now. That's why, from Juntes to Catalunya, we congratulate the counselor and his team to govern and, above all, to make an effort to educate and explain. The Spanish government has centrifuged, yielding to a problem that has activated the logic of changing times. The Barcelona Assembly, with the Commons, has done as always... Mr. Cid, has been brilliant in his intervention, but let's say that the Barcelona Assembly has done as always, a classic, from which he is neither mule nor under water; I have not said the name and everyone knows who I am talking about, which is symptomatic, and in change, the Government of the country has acted. You, the department, the government, you have been brave, intervening in a conflict that is new. A conflict that is not excluded from Catalonia, because, in any case, it is excluded from time, from this decade and is excluded from the globalized and technologically creative and changing world, of which we are also supporters. France! Oh, France! Oh, France and its minister Monsieur Valls, they've been touched before. So, well, France, with Minister Valls, and Italy, and Germany, and Belgium and Portugal, they also had to act. It was not easy and you have done well, as the governments of all the countries that I have commented on have done well, because there cannot be a single recipe, there is no single recipe. In proper surroundings, we have proposed very different solutions, because it is not only the problem of taxis and VTCs, we are also discussing a problem that is also cultural. Yes, there's a culture of how we live, and that makes the good solution to each place not a 100_per_cent exportable solution, without passing the city or country culture filter. The countries we are– are– changing realities and governments and parliaments have to adapt to these changes. It is a matter of ordering a conflict which, I insist, is neither new nor exclusively from here, because, quite simply, it is a conflict of time. And it's true, we're ahead of a complex issue. Therefore, thank you for the courage and for taking the matter forward. It's about getting the regulated public service married through lawsuits, the general interest and the us, the new life forms that the technology also proposed to us. In fact, it's obvious that in the next few years the classic model of the taxi will come up with more changes, some of which we can't even imagine today. That's the difficulty. We need to legislate with the certainty that there will be changes and with the uncertainty that we don't know what these changes will be like. The government, in our view, from Junts to Catalunya, has found a logical, sensible and realistic position, half way from resistance to change and from the other extreme, that these changes arrive without any control. I'm done. Yesterday, Ciutadans opened the debate on this point in the control session of President Torra. Ciutadans obviously does not like the advice of the Board of State Guarantees. Did they read it right? Did they read it right? First, the opinion is consultative, neither precept nor binding; they do not therefore conflict where there is no conflict. Two. The enabling proposal of the law decree is unquestionable, it is woman, the urgency is accredited. Three. I have the feeling that they always seek conflict with the Constitution, it's like mana, conflict with the Constitution is mana. But this time it's not about this, it's not about competitive limits. It's not Spain versus Catalonia, no. This time it is a special dispute that, in the end, focuses on a generic concept markedly ideological, such as corporate freedom, which means that it is a very broad concept of free appreciation, it is an informative term that needs weighting. Fourth. He has his wife, he has his wife, who, in France, solved this conflict, bears the signature of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Valls, and, in Catalonia, you say just the opposite; he has his wife, to see how they explain it to us. I don't know if you know it or the counselor let them run a bomb that blew them off. I don't know if I know or not, but now they have a more coherent problem. And five. Why doesn't Ciutadans defend the taxi, the taxi driver who is travelling to Barcelona at this hour? Why? Why did they want to let him come before some big companies from an exaggerated desire? Why? Is there a personal reason? Is there a personal reason? If there isn't, if there isn't this personal reason, I must have signed up. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If it isn't, we'll have to believe it. But, if there is, explain it because it's hard to hear how Ciutadans people donated the bait to the taxi people. I don't do VTCs any favors, no favors. Therefore, I end up placing Junts' voting position for Catalonia. We will vote for this decree from Juntos per Catalunya, because it's a good point and it's a good point of withdrawal. It's a good solution in time of change and the change never has to blow us away. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.44.0	Thank you, Congressman. Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.45.0	[[Santi Rodríguez i Serra intervenes without using the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.210.0	Thirty seconds. Don't touch the microphone that's already... in principle...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.46.0	Now. For the contradictions of Mr. Sanglas, who attributed me a few words in relation to that if a Republican leftist militant had something to see with VTC companies. No, I didn't say that. I said that he is a Republican leftist who, presiding over the Catalan Competition Authority, has made, precisely, a report... hasn't made much, the Catalan Competition Authority, right? But he has made a specific report on the law decree we're bringing to validation, recommending the non-validation of this law decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.47.0	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Bloods. The same as Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.48.0	Contradictions with Mr. Rodriguez. In any case, also to clarify that the fact, let us say, of the President's militancy or not militancy does not imply the positioning of this political party or this parliamentary group. In any case, let us say to ourselves, that this situation cannot be revealed and the position of our parliamentary group has become very clear in this rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Cid, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.50.0	Contradictions with Mr. Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.51.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.52.0	I understand politics in a certain way, which is when he agrees, he agrees, and when he disagrees, he disagrees. And we, today, in any case, have granted. But if you want to appreciate, in this case, the role played by the president of the Metropolitan Area and the mayor of Barcelona, I propose one thing to you, ask the taxi drivers whether or not Mrs. Colau did or did not do, in this case, in defense of the taxi sector and I think they will answer them with a huge yes. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.53.0	Thank you, Members. According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules of Procedure... Yes. Madam Bravo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.54.0	For allusions, first of all.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.55.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.56.0	Yeah. Well, we wanted to ask Mr. Eduard Pujol to see if he has the courage to verbalize what he has just insinuated here, because, if what he is doing is having swallowed a bubble and he is pretending to spread it, then that can certainly have legal consequences. We give you a chance to rectify and stop running around, because if you don't, you'll end up in court.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Anyway... if they ask me for the word, I'll turn it on, if I think it's relevant. Say'm, Mr. Pujol. I understand that by contradiction or by the allusion of Mrs Bravo. Forward, forward, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.58.0	No, no, to clarify this point. It seems to me that Parliament is going to talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, ask it, and that's exactly what I did. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.59.0	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.60.0	That's exactly what I did, asking if there was, behind Ciutadans' decision, a personal question, exactly that. I've done this, Mrs. Arrimadas, you don't make me say something I haven't said. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.61.0	Mrs. Rimadas, be quiet. Now, has the word Mr. Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.62.0	[[I said what I said. (Whispering)]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.63.0	Quiet, and please. According to Rule 158.3, as I said, the Rules are in agreement – and we will now vote in this sense – that the affirmative votes are in favour of the validation of the decree, and the negative votes... Tell me, Mrs Bravo. Why ask me the word, now? [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, Mrs. Rimadas, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.64.0	It is to be asked to read, before the vote, as a small paragraph of the opinion of the Board of Guarantees Statutàries. It would be the first four lines – it is a very short paragraph – of the central paragraph – forgiveness – on page 54.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.65.0	I don't know if we have him here. I don't have the opinion, I don't know if...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.66.0	Yeah, I think he got there; if he didn't... [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.67.0	Mr. Aragonès, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.68.0	On a point of order, Mr President. What we will vote on and what we can read must be part of the content of which we will vote, not of other contents. And, therefore, if we open up at this point in time discussion of other contingencies that are to be put to the vote, obviously..., or that are not to be put to the vote, from now on we also ask that every time we vote a contingencies go to those arguments that we believe they defend our positions. That's breaking Parliament's functioning. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.69.0	Yes, Madam Bravo, say'mexactly' based on what article you ask.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.70.0	Article 88.2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.71.0	Mrs. Bravo is right, joined 88.2. So... [[Greetings.]] In the lime, let them clap, please – not let them clap. What this article actually says is that it can be asked and it is the President's power to decide whether it is read or not. I actually decide that this point is read. [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] Mr. Cid, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.72.0	I demand that Article 1 of the conclusions of page 72 of the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, which says that it endorses the urgency of the decree, is read.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.73.0	Okay. For the same criteria and with the same consistency we will also read it. [[Widow's remorse.]] But, anyway, please, Mr. Cid, you're getting us the document. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right. We shall therefore read these two parts of the opinion of the Guarantee Board and vote. Mr. Moral Gomez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.74.0	No, President, I know it's hard, but I have to tell you that I'm not in accordance with this criterion, because you have to read things that are submissive to vote, sharing the criteria of the Mr. Aragonese, as has always been done in this chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.75.0	What the Rules say is that they show the vote not necessarily apart from the document that will be voted on. So, we'll read both points. Mr. Vidal Aragonese, why ask me the word? And we'll close the debate here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.76.0	A point of order. And even with the presidential criteria, which you must be able to vote on, we do not think that this illustrates the vote; on the contrary, it creates confusion with what we are voting for. So, decide the president. This does not show the vote. And, therefore, we should not read it because it does not show the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.77.0	All right. I insist: decide the president. It's been asked for groups, it could be denied, obviously, but we've decided that we can read the two apartments that have been asked for. And we'll do it just now, before we go to the vote. Therefore, ask Secretary Pérez to read the two fragments, and please differentiate exactly each of the fragments he is reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.78.0	According to what the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group has asked of us, on page 54 of the Resolution of the Council of State Guarantees, it is literally said: "And as far as this later consideration is concerned, we believe it is important to call the attention of the Generality to the potential economic claim on the part of the public record that can boost the business and professional sector affected, as a result of the approval of Decree Law 4/2019. And as for the request made by the deputy David Cid, it was the first conclusion of the Council of Guarantees Statutes : "The Decree Law 4/2019, of 29 generation, of urgent measures in the matter of the transport of passengers by means of the lloger of vehicles with driver, does not violate Article 64.1 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia as regards the presumption enabling neither Article 86.1 of the Spanish Constitution nor Article 64.1 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia for which it makes the material limits required for the standard instrument of the decree which it adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.79.0	[[All right. We're calling it a vote. (Pause.)]] Let's start the vote. I recall again that the affirmative votes are in favour of the validation of the law decree, and the negative votes against are in favour of the derogation. The vote begins. The decree was ratified by 87 votes in favour, 38 against and no abstentions. Say'm, Mr. Carrizosa. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.80.0	For a question of compliance with the Regulation, compliance with the Regulation. People who had already started voting when they arrived have just voted. I ask that we respect the rules of procedure and that no account be taken of the votes taken when the voting period has already begun and they have entered the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.81.0	You're right to be in the hemicle when you vote, but we've had a lax criteria in this whole legislature in this, which has affected all groups. So now, too. [[Gerard Gómez del Moral and Fuster asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Moral Gomez. And in any case, this will be a matter of discussion at the Board of Spokespersons, if that's what they think is appropriate. Say'm, Mr. Moral Gomez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.82.0	President, for the same question as the spokesman of the Ciutadans Group. Rule 93 says that one time... votes cannot be interrupted for good reason nor can a deputy enter the session room when they are in the vote. But it's that the deputies were inside. Therefore, they had to run; they were in the room when the vote began and, therefore, they voted, as rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure states. It cannot be interrupted, and it is when there is more than one vote, for example in motions for resolutions, that, as it is a single act, votes, however many separate votes there are, cannot be voted in a second or a third vote. But clearly you can participate if you are between the Session Hall, as the Rules mark. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.83.0	All right. In any case, I'm going back to proclaiming the results. The vote on the validation of Decree Law 4/2019, of the 29th generation, of urgent measures in the matter of the transport of passengers, mediating the llogger of vehicles with driver, has been validated by 87 votes in favour, 38 against and no abstention. [[Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day... (Applause.)]] Please ask the public to refrain from protest. Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.84.0	Yes, Mr President, because according to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, a petition must be made as to whether this decree is to be dealt with as a bill of law. And we specifically asked.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.85.0	You're right, you're right. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I missed you. In any case, as long as a group has requested that it be referred to as the law, as the draft law, this decree, we now proceed to the vote, effectively, as Mr Rodriguez says, and in accordance with Rule 158.4 of the Rules. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. And we would recall that the votes claimed are in favour of processing as a bill of law, and the votes denied are contrary. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. [[Greetings.]] It is hoped, in any case, that we will proclaim the results. Processing as a draft law of Decree 4/2019_has been rejected by 38 votes in favour, 87 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into knowledge policies]] [[302-00062/12]] [[And now, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motions, and in this case the first is the motion following the question to the Government on the policies of knowledge; presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. That's the word of Congresswoman Alicia Romero. When he wants to. (Long break. Widow's remorse.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.86.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.87.0	One moment, Congresswoman, one moment. They ask that if they have to speak out of the hemicicle and that, therefore, they respect the word of Mrs Romero. When he wants to. Now yes, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.88.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs and MPs, advisors and advisors. Well, our intervention at these moments is to present the motion we wanted to make on the inquiry into issues of knowledge policies. It was hard to find him a title, because we basically wanted to deal with two themes, which is the situation that young people see when they study outside their hometown; Catalonia is 15_000. That doesn't mean that our proposals today go to those fifteen thousand, because many of them go home, say, on the evening to sleep, they make their lives to the city of origin, but they do for many of those who have to leave their city to live all week away or because they make a title that around them, so it doesn't exist, or because the note forced them to leave their city. And it seemed to us that it was an important issue. The Council of Students of Catalonia had also asked us, that this was one of the themes that might have worked little and needed to be strengthened. And, therefore, we wanted to make this young man, in which there is a part that goes to programs that must try to guarantee the rights, or that reinforces the guarantee of the social and health rights of students where they go when they change cities. But we also wanted to strengthen scholarship programs, specifically for these three themes, which are important for us to remember, such as the maintenance, accommodation or transportation of these people. You think that the average expense of a student who has to leave his city, beyond university fees, is around five hundred euros a month. Follow him, that's a lot of resources. And many times not all families can cover these expenses. And, therefore, we asked for a program, or extend, within the scholarship program, which deals specifically with these expenses, and then work or boost from the Generality accompliment programs. I have to say that, both at this point and at the later point, there have been reports from the Ciutadans Group and the Junts Group for Catalonia and Esquerra. I want to thank Members Castellà and Font for their willingness to agree on a motion that is important to us. So, as in other issues, we're more likely to agree, like tax cuts, on this one, we've come to an agreement. I also want to thank the councillor and her team, which has been flexible in trying to try to at least approve some things that allow us to move forward. And I, therefore, both at Lluís Font as at Toni Castellà want to thank them for the work we did in this House, which was a very intense ple, right? And then, the second part is a part that tries, beyond the students who are in a territory, that, therefore, generate knowledge in that territory..., we wanted to talk about the localization of knowledge in the territory. How we locate knowledge, how it becomes a generation of wealth, a place of work, and it is important and inevitable, in this sense, to talk about innovation. And here, therefore, we have made some proposals, which have also rejected some points, but which we have been able to make, and so I am satisfied with this line. Basically, because what we do today is – and I think this is shared, of course, for what we're here for – that while we've done a great job in Catalonia for what it does to the search system; with the innovation system, so we've had more problems. In fact, a few days ago we found ourselves with the Councillor and some Members – I think that Mr Lluís Font and Mrs Espigares – in an act where there was a book about the thirty years of research in Catalonia, and there were all the Councillors, from the beginning of democracy, and it was, therefore, curious to listen as most of them said that if we had a red light, a wall still on the table, they were innovation policies. So it's true that we're going to have to make more efforts here to try to move forward with the country, isn't it? Because in the end, if we want knowledge to be at the center of the economy because it's more competitive, we'll need to move forward with this. And one of the instruments we have in Catalonia, beyond the research centers, from the research that is done to the universities..., to Catalonia a while ago it was created, that it was put to leave the Eurecat Technology Center, that it is the technological center of Catalonia, where many technological centers of the territory were merged, and that it began to walk. We've always been a little bit critical, not with the concept, with which we agree, but with how this was done and how Eurecat works. And I really want to thank, because it's the first time, since the Socialist Group makes proposals in this line, in moving forward to redraw Eurecat, that the government accepts proposals from us. And, therefore, I would like to thank the Councillor, because I am sure that after this acceptance there is also a willingness to improve the Eurecat Technology Centre. Because we have granted, negotiated with the two groups that conform and support the government, so we can assess the governance of this center, that it is a center that must be publicized, and that therefore we must see if the governance that we have woven and designed is what it is that it is near – we believe that it must be reviewed and seen, so if it can be improved – the strategy – we believe that there is not enough and therefore we must see what strategy follows this center – and also evaluate the organization and rationalize it, because it is aligned with this strategy. I want to thank, as I said, this effort among all of us, and I hope that we can unanimously approve the motion we are presenting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.89.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] Next, she has the word to defend the papers presented, in the first place, the deputy María Luz Guilarte, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.90.0	Mr President, advisors, Members, first of all, and given that knowledge policies are of the utmost interest to us, we regret that the PSC has disregarded this motion, basically in generalities, which I assume is to get a little bit into the car of this new remake of the Pact for the University of 2017, which, like everything else, dynamite the separatists with the blow to democracy, and which now convert into the Pact for the Knowledge Society. This is why, in our view, there are many strategic elements that contribute to the growth of the intellectual, economic and social capital of Catalonia. Look, we really believe that we must start by reducing the economic barriers, to access the university, which in Catalonia are excessive. However, the Secretary of Universities has already said and confirmed that he will not comply with the mandate of this Parliament this year and that he will not apply the 30_per_cent reduction in university fees. We're off to a bad start, Counselor. For our part, in addition to the scholarships and other supplements, we believe that the public administration itself should innovate and offer more instruments of financing for training, similar to those of the German law of student promotion, where there is a half of state financial aid and the other half is a loan without interest. We also want scholarships and grants for FP, university women, both in terms of amount and quantity, bearing in mind that this modality is best suited to our territorial business fabric, mostly made up of SMEs, and that it will be the one that will cover the supply of 65_per_cent of the jobs offered in Spain in the coming decades. Other strategic axes for Citizens: the evaluation of the quality of our training system and the attraction and retention of talent. According to the indicators of the 2018 Knowledge and Development Foundation ranking, which analyses and promotes the contribution of universities to the economic and social development of Spain, Catalonia ranks number 9 in the total of the autonomous communities in terms of performance in results, in teaching and learning, and number 13 in terms of students from outside Catalonia who are attending their degree or master's degree here. And why this? This is a consequence of a chronic problem of lack of investment, also in teacher training and renewal. However, you have 200,000 euros to subsidize overseas chairs that support independence. Not to mention some endogamous governing bodies, in universities, and the poor economic and labor conditions for researchers or associate professors; to which is added the practice of separatist policies excluding from the institutions, such as their refusal to take into account linguistic diversity in Catalonia. And all this does is drive away the attraction and retention of the talent, new and diverse, which is the one who creates and spreads knowledge. Another essential axis is the promotion of the integration of women at all levels into the knowledge ecosystem, which is also not a priority for their Government. See if you preach with the example, that you count on the fingers of your hand the women who are at the head of governing bodies of the Catalan public universities or dependent scientific entities, not to mention the innovation, to which you dedicate a shameful 0.08_per_cent in the budgets of the Generalitat – those that you have taken to the press, to see if they approve them –; or the technological transfer, which must be ordered and established with the focus on SMEs and self-employed people, that for these, today, access to technological centres and develop innovation projects there is a utopia. In short, unfortunately, the model of knowledge management of this governance is the one that continues to expel hundreds of companies every month from Catalonia, or diminishing their competitiveness, based on encouraging violence on the streets, or boycotts, or ideological stops..., and violating the right to freedom of enterprise, as they have done with the VTCs, applying a decree, let's say, firewalls, or the one that blows the image of Catalonia and its institutions, making the memo, gentlemen – the memo – in front of the flower and corporate cream of world technology in Mobile. And so, and I conclude, this sabbatical government of yours, which has already been inoperative and useless for citizens and their interests, is – you are – the real danger for Catalonia, so that this advance and take advantage of the knowledge that is created in the territory and that it will revert to the benefit and the future of society as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, also to defend the papers presented, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word the deputy Antoni Castellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.92.0	Vice-President, councillors, deputies, deputies, we try to re-earth the reality of this motion. We are celebrating today that there is an agreement around a young man whom we consider, from the parliamentary group, to be relevant. Congresswoman Romero has already explained to us that there are two parts. There is a first part with which we agree: in this country we have a relative mobility of students, which we also consider, or some consider, beyond the difficulties, that it is a virtue, that there is mobility in the country. We have made a series of transactions, in which we have come to an agreement to guarantee the health rights that, in fact, the owner gives them, and that in any case we must, of course, age the government, for whatever incidence there is. With respect to all scholarships and fellowship programs, we have processed the analysis of mobility and to be able to expand them, if you like, remembering that the headings that you have to see with mobility are at the ministry scholarships. Certainly, scholarships from the ministry that we continue to reiterate, once more, that are not transferred. Now that we have judgments in which it is alleged that the Constitutional Court is disobeyed, in this case we have firm judgment and the different governments of the State pass it for the nakedness of the shirt. But, given that parentheses, we also agree to develop the different programs on the university campuses of accomplimentation. There's a very, very high part of it. The honourable Member Romero speaks in her motion and, in fact, we have arrived at transactions, about the appreciation of knowledge, the involvement and the impact on the territory, the mechanisms of financial incentive, which are all the themes that probably – and this may seem like a precedent – we have debate and consensus in the National Knowledge Pact. Because, in fact, this is probably one of the most important challenges the country has. Before the 21st century, the country model of the future will compete for work costs and organization of work or innovation. The condition necessary to compete in innovation is the search pattern and border search, and in this excellent, in Catalonia, huh? The Member of Ciutadans probably did not know at all, but this is an internationally recognized model of excellence. The data is spectacular, and it's only been a 15-year-old job for the last 15 years, with consensus with all political forces. Now, it's obvious that the big challenge, in this condition, would say, but not enough, is how we turn this entire generation of knowledge into wealth, into economic development. And who's transferring in these moments in our country with greasy numbers? It is to say, with thick numbers, at these times, more or less, 40_percent of the transfer is done by our university system, 50_per_cent by the search center system, and a 10_per_cent by the technology center environment. What are we supposed to reinforce? I believe that the receptions, looking at the different systems that have excelled in innovation, that are not so many in the world, are very obvious: one, the ability that the university units are centralized, autonomous, and functioning as clients respects all research groups in their university environment. The other is the ability to dialog between universities and companies. And, in this sense, strengthening the programme"Industrial Doctorates believe that it is an evidence that has given us success, as well as the creation of knowledge-based entrepreneurs, from the point of view of knowledge-industry programs; the development of cluster structure and policy; and, respecting the technology centres, there will probably have to be a historical reflection of how they were born and how the government currently encourages the ability of there to be much critical, in terms of not internalizing the search within the circle, but of this function of valorization. It is in this sense that we think this must be one of the most important debates we have in the country. Catalonia has all the conditions to make the big leap to the revolution of knowledge. Some speak of the fourth industrial revolution, exactly as we did in the Industrial Revolution in the 19th century. This ability is what will make us absolutely different, having an industrial system and an economic system that competes for added value, not for labor costs, and that this becomes an instrument because this country, Catalonia, grows up to have a well-being, and well-being, with fairness and equity. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.93.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. [[Greetings.]] Now, to defend the papers presented, for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word the deputy Lluís Font.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.94.0	Thank you, Vice President. Councillors, Members and Members, announce that we have reached an agreement with the Socialist Group and Forward Units, that they have gathered our contributions and, therefore, we will vote favourably until and when they have incorporated papers from other groups that we also feel. I would like to highlight the tarann and the attitude of Congresswoman Alicia Romero, because at all times she did not just want to deal with us and to agree, but to hear our reasons, and it seems to me that it is a good practice, a good parliamentary style, to do this kind of thing. The social scientist, sociologist Richard Florida – I don't know if he knows him –, an American who does classes in Toronto, a couple of years ago he theoryd from a very attractive picture of the three Ts, which I will unveil at the length of my intervention. He spoke of a prospectively-structured world based on megacities, meaning for megacities a city, a city, but all the territory that surrounds it, which retains daily, commercial, logistical relations, a certain sense of relevance. The list of these megacity is long enough. One of them is precisely Barcelona, with an area that goes from the Occitània to the Valencia Country, the Islands, Aragó... It is not a pan-Catalanist, it is a social scientist that describes this structure, and predicts that these megacities, in the future, will get together to guarantee the welfare of its people and go forward if they are able to combine three Ts. The first T is talent. The book does not refer only to the vertex of society, which is the subject that would occupy us today: the university, the researchers, the teachers..., the ability to reverse this knowledge, this skill, because our company, because our industry, because our production sector is still in the field and we can have patents, we can believe knowledge, and this is what a product that benefits the country. It also refers to the conjunction of the education system; we could talk about the talents: as we are able to activate the talents, these multiple intelligences that our citizens, that our teenagers, that our infants have, and put them to the service of their realization and their future. This young man speaks of talent: he speaks of the talent of the university students, of their mobility, of how they can move and develop these abilities; but he also speaks of the talent of the researchers, of how to facilitate these researchers to have this ability, this intelligence, to serve the common good. The second T is technology; technology does not understand only as technology, but also as the governance of talent, as the logistics that the structure: how we possess the tools at the abst of this talent because it is fruitful, because it is fruitful, because it is reversed for the benefit of one and the other. And it seems to me that this young man is also talking about technology that he understands: how we evaluate our research centers, how we evaluate research projects... Why? To ensure that they are more effective, because, in the framework of this great pact that we are structuring, of the society of knowledge and, therefore, of a law of science that I have developed, let us bring the same party. So, essentially, I think this guy combines the two Ts. If someone hasn't disconnected so far, he'll ask if I've forgotten about the third te; but I haven't forgotten, and now I'll touch it. The third T is the T of tolerance. The author puts a lot of emphasis on it, and he says: it is possible to deal with homogeneous societies that by migratory movements or by demographic evolution they have diverse components and how they are able to manage this surviving reality or of societies, let's say, that they are hallucinating, that they have been incorporating different generations and that they have been facilitating in this way. And he insists on the subject: it's fundamental because who, because they're productive of talent, combined with technology, that there's an ecosystem of tolerance. And this allows me to relate it to Michael Ignatieff and the last book he has made about the daily virtues, one goes on to say that sometimes it is simply a matter of learning to coexist together, not to take a wrong hand in living together, to share spaces, knowing that we think very differently in many themes, that we have tarannas, that we have identities, that we have languages, that we have very different religions. So I believe that our great challenge is this: how we favor this tolerance. And we, who have a public projection, think that as Members and Members we should be guardians of this virtue and project it at the company's side. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.95.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then, to fix his position, the deputy Lucas Ferro has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.96.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A decade after the beginning of the crisis, Catalonia has to choose, like the rest of Europe's countries, if it runs so as not to lose the train of progress and well-being or to watch it pass from the path, and years ago we cast a political and economic stake that left us from Europe. Crisis is cyclical, but government intervention reinforces or protects citizens and their right to well-being. The challenge, to the south of Europe, is one of great depression, it is the same thing: either we stand on the path and accept the role that European austerity has led to the south of Europe – that it is not something other than an economic engine but an economy of services, not betting on knowledge, research and innovation and, ultimately, breaking our pact to benefit – or we run to not lose the train and countercyclical political femmes, which are assumed to be beneficial, to post the search, development and innovation and to strengthen our product fabric and our ability to generate knowledge. And this in Catalonia is four things that are at the heart of the same thing: expanding assumptions that end with a decade of austerity; not that makeup or insulting the intelligence of Catalonia's citizens, putting forward assumptions that retail €4,500_million respect 2010 as the most social assumptions of history. And, therefore, the first thing: expanding assumptions that stop blowing up society. Second thing: take the National Pact for Industry as a country bet, take the National Pact for Energy Transition as a country bet, and take the National Pact for Knowledge Society as a country bet. In short, assuming that Catalonia deserves a serious country bet, not a propagandistic proposal of the head government, a serious country bet that assures a future of welfare. And this motion, which we fully share, has an impact on three aspects that we consider to be of fundamental importance. The first: universities, like all public education in Catalonia, must be engines of equality and welfare, and they are not. The universities of our country are not engines of equality or welfare. I said it three weeks ago and I repeat it today: two thousand young people expelled from public universities for an abusive tax system that shuts them down, and a report on the public investment of universities in Catalonia from 30 per cent. In the field of universities, it is not that we have lost the train: it is that we are the wagon of which, the last of the OECD countries. National shame, having converted the public universities of Catalonia into the vague of which of the thirty-four countries of the OECD, and national shame that some assumptions that consolidate being the vague of which of the OECD can say social assumptions in this country. According to the source element: universities must be an engine of territorial cohesion. Social inequalities break Catalonia, and they also break it territorially. There is a family of the Segarra, or the Noguera, or the Urgell, or the Solsonès, to guarantee access to the university of their children has to face a true race of obstacles: the highest taxes of the whole State, the preus of logging higher than the whole State, the absence of a network of colliding, no housing guarantee, no public park of logging, no public residences for the students, a system of obviously insufficient beaks. They have to face the price of transportation, maintenance, which in many cases incurs costs of up to six thousand euros per year, and barriers to access to public services derived from not being registered to the city in which they live. At the time of the connection, you converted the distance into a barrier to equality. I, for the last time, universities must be a driving force for progress in the territories. All search, development and innovation indicators in Catalonia have fallen. We are below 50_percent of our R+D+I targets in Catalonia, and going down. Social cohesion has also fallen: 81_percent of research activity, development and innovation is produced in the province of Barcelona. In territorial cohesion, the Generalitat must also work against the inequalities and for the dynamics that encourage it, especially in Catalonia, that we are a country of peppers torn from the territory that need the impetus of the Generalitat to be an engine of innovation. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] And with this I'm done: let's go round, so that we don't lose the welfare train and keep chained to some austerity assumptions that allow us to build a country with future and well-being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.97.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? I'm told she's Congresswoman Natialia Sánchez. No problem, if you let us know with...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.98.0	Good morning, and I'm sorry, President, because we haven't told you about this change we made at the last minute. Many things have already been said about this young man, which some of us share. First, that she is a young man with generalities, that it is difficult to be against some of the points. Points 1 and 2, on the integral scholarships, we understand that, even though they don't talk about any assignment criteria and that it's very little concrete, that, well, that's fine. But let's remember that the matter of competition..., it should be the Generality that has this competence of scholarships, and in fact the Constitutional Court has said, that it has ruled on this issue, and it is the State that constantly incompletes it, in this and many other questions. On the other hand, with point 4 we could also agree, but, well, we don't see it very coherent with the rest of points. We believe that, obviously, the progress of knowledge and scientific research requires strategic planning and greater funding, sense of doubt, but this must be to adapt to the needs and problems of society, and not to adapt to the problems and needs that the market determines. And that's why they incorporate concepts into the movement, isn't it? The concepts of excellence, competitiveness, concepts that, while we might be in favour of and understand that companies obviously need to invest in knowledge, they need to invest in research..., we understand that these confusions that are constantly raised by many groups between what is public and private what they do – or could do – is to open the door to what is already going on: to make businesses follow those that are working with something as hard as public education. And in this sense, these ambiguities and this lack of concreteness in your young lady, we are concerned. We understand that from there we are obliged to guarantee the role of universities as centres of creation and transfer of knowledge, research space based on scientific criteria, on the margin of profitability. College can never be a business. And in this sense, if we believe we have to go to the scene, if we have to hear that what we want is a policy that enhances knowledge, the first thing we have to do is stop putting undue tolls on access to knowledge, to university access. Today, which begins the collection of ILP signatures for the reduction of university taxes, we give them all our support. This is the best we can do for university and scientific knowledge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.99.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party, I'm told... is it the deputy Santi Rodríguez? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. I didn't have it either, but forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.100.0	Thank you, Vice President. Very briefly, to position us in relation to this young man. It is a young man who surely, therefore, I understand the honourable Member's view of the difficulty of holding it, because of the issues it raises: certainly, that of facilitating the territorial mobility of university students to facilitate access to training, on one hand; on the other hand, the role of universities in the knowledge generation and, therefore, in facilitating research, which is a situation, is an aspect in which, in fact, I believe we are very well situated. There is a way to go, there is a long way to go and, in this sense, important reforms to be made in the university system in order to strengthen this research in the world of universities. But, obviously, we have pending assignments. It has been said in some other intervention, but I think it is obvious: the transfer of knowledge, the transfer of research to practice, to companies and, therefore, to the generation of value directly, to innovation, this is a pending assignment. And, obviously, here are many aspects that intervene in trying to accentuate and improve innovation as a growth engine, but we have to mention, since we are in Parliament and, therefore, in a place where the Government is controlled, the role of the Government of the Generality in this sense. And I'm sorry that the third T that Mr. Font was talking about isn't complete. What? So we are adopting measures that are precisely few tolerant in relation to the agents involved in the market, as we just saw a moment ago with the approval of a law decree, on the one hand, but, on the other hand, also with a government that insists on adopting unilateral measures that the one that generates is legal insecurity, and, therefore, is also very little tolerant, and therefore generate these attitudes a very little conducive environment to the generation of innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.101.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Now, to pronounce on the papers presented, you have the word for the group proposing the deputy Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.102.0	Thank you, President. I wanted to say two things. To the deputy of Ciutadans I'll tell you... man, you say that my young lady is generic, generalist, that you don't say anything. Please present the inquiry, and see what you're doing to me. Because he gave me two tests to modify... three tests, yes, to incorporate paraulets, parules. I mean, of course, if you really say no, there's a lot of work to do, why didn't you do it at your desks? Two, I'll tell the UPC deputy one thing; they won't like it. 2017 was passed some assumptions here that do not reverse the 30_percent of university taxes and you collected them. I mean, they had their hands changed that, and they didn't. We'll also sign for the ILP, we'll be long gone, and the councilwoman knows it, fighting this; no, we don't agree. And there is also one other thing, in politics: sometimes it is not possible to advance in a line, and it seems to me that this, unfortunately, is not a line in which we can advance. So, listen, let's try to move on for others. And, therefore, it seems to us that there is a need in those students who study outside their city. The government and the groups that support it have opened a lock to expand resources to help these students. I, listen'm, you have to accept. I think that sometimes... I come out many times here, so I criticize the government, and sometimes some Members say that mass, but I also have to recognize that sometimes we have to try to build. And Mr. Font, Congressman Font, spoke very well; he made a fantastic parliament, didn't he? , speaking also of this, of tolerance, of how forms also help us to make decisions. And I think sometimes it's built, trying to add and go for the path of the chord when the disagreement doesn't fail, I think it's positive. And, therefore, this young man, although he may not be as strong as some of them, I believe that many of his actions will lead us to work and advance in innovation policies and in helping students to do so outside his home. Thank you very much. [[Some applause. Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.103.0	We're calling it a vote. Separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Sánchez, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.104.0	We ask for a separate ballot in block – you can vote together – from points 4, 6, 7..., well, from 4 to 8, basically, except for 5; that is, 4, 6, 7, 7 bis and 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.105.0	Okay. Any more petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] We shall therefore vote on this first block, including points 4, 6, 7, 7a and 8. Okay? [[Pause.]] Let's get to the vote, then. The vote begins. This block of points has been approved by 122 votes in favour, against and 2 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved, namely 124 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into tourism]] [[302-00067/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into tourism, presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. To expose it, has the word Mr Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.106.0	Thank you; thank you, President. Councillors, Business and Knowledge Councillor, and responsible for government tourism, this young man is then part of an inquiry that we made to the Councillor here about three weeks ago and in which we posed a series of challenges that we heard had the tourism sector of the country, a sector that at the time we framed and that we determined that it was an important sector for the country's economy. One of the challenges we raised was the challenge of the growth of the tourism sector worldwide and the impact it could have on our country. And we say: "In 2030, if the forecasts of the World Tourism Organization are fulfilled, we can have 1,800_million tourists. Are we ready? Is our country ready? Can you absorb that? Another of the problems we raised was the governance of a sector with multiple agents: with public agents, with private agents, with citizens and with the same tourism sector. And that's why we're proposing to the government that it develop the Pla stratègique and Pla de marqueting de turisme de Catalunya, making a special impact on governance and associationism. The tourism sector is a terribly atomized sector; there are 78,000 businesses operating there, many of them very small. The "associtivism" we believe is a fundamental step in determining homogeneous tourism policies. Sustainability, sustainability, understanding of different points of view: social sustainability, cultural sustainability, economics and, naturally, environmental; the environmental that is the object of many of the visits we have. This is why we ask the Government to work in the network through all the departments of the Generality and through public administrations to avoid the visual degradation of the touristic space and to deploy a responsible, social and environmental tourism model. The tourists have changed, they will change, they will change the way to make tourism. Are we well prepared to attend to them? Do we know them? Do you know what profile they have? They are an absolutely new generation that have very different consumption habits and habits in general. The tourism sector is a sector that is very often moved by the spontaneous nature and entrepreneurial character of those who dedicate themselves to it. Knowledge, much knowledge; much knowledge, and transfer, knowledge and transfer, transfer in the sector to be able to make decisions based on science, knowledge. We'll talk about the papers later. Wages. We have to face it, the salaries of the tourism sector are not the salaries that should be; they are wages that are substantially lower than the middle of Catalonia, not so much lower than the middle of the service sector, which are generally lower, but the middle of the salaries of tourism are 16,200_euros the year and the middle of the conjunction of the Catalan economy are 24,500. This together with excessive, perhaps, temporality, also sharp, perhaps, to the character of tourism. And determined externalizations that might be possible, would have to be borrowed through propitious workers. This is why we ask the government to develop a tourism quality programme that recognises tourism businesses struggling against inequalities and that have environmental awareness. And finally, the public sector has to be a sector that facilitates – that facilitates – economic activity, that does not set entry barriers, that eliminates charges. In this sense we ask the Government to promote the new tourism decree, which repeals or modifies new standards – new standards –; new decrees totally, partially two; five orders; a government agreement, and a resolution of the department. We've been talking about this for a long time. We know the difficulties in its elaboration and the administrative complications that a law has to develop in this country. We know that the department has sought to encourage the maximum participation of all sectors and has opened two public exhibitions that have extended all the terms. We know that 155 involved a stop in general for the whole of the Catalonian Government and made this approval difficult. Millorem the competitive conditions of the country, we change the regulatory framework and present the tourism decree. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.107.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented has the word Mrs Laura Vílchez, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.108.0	Thank you, President. Today is 28 February, Andalucia Day, and I want from here to congratulate all Andalusians. To regret, on the one hand, first that at this hour... [[Greetings.]] To regret, on the one hand, that at this time still some parliamentary groups have not wanted to join in an institutional declaration dedicated to them on the proposal of Citizens, but I do not want to fail to publicly express the pride I feel of my Andalusian roots, of my parents, of my grandparents, as many of my colleagues also feel, as the more than 1_million Catalans who share with me those sentimental ties with Andalusia. And the pride I also feel for all those Andalusians who came and who have come to make with their work, with their effort and with their social commitment a better Catalonia for all. [[Greetings.]] But today we talk about tourism, and it's very good and we have to do it. The situation of one of the most important productive sectors of our autonomous community deserves that it is discussed proposals to give solutions from the administrations. But the motion we are debating today, with a few weak, ridiculous, little ambitious points, comes from the government, that this motion comes from the government, is a mockery for the sector and for parliamentary groups. And I was disappointed, Mr. Roquer, because your inquiry was very interesting, you recognized shortcomings, you questioned some policies that are going to end with dubious effectiveness on the part of the Government of the Generality. But at the end of the day in this young man, either he didn't want to or they didn't let him reflect his speech a few days ago, and he went olympically from asking for anything, from proposing more than a toast to the sun. On the day of your inquiry you were concerned about security, for example, and you are right, we agree, but to the motion, nothing. Moreover, a few months ago they voted against a specific plan in the field of security in the field of tourism, proposed by Ciutadans, in a youth. You were concerned about the lack of indicators, and you are right, we agree, but to the motion, nothing, nothing about how to analyze the behavior of the tourists who visit us, the new consumption habits, the forecast of potential tourists and how to predict the needs that can be given..., or how we can see the management that is being done these days on Mobile or the summer campaigns every year with airports. You were concerned about the assessment of public policies, for example, which were carried out by the government in the field of tourism, and we are right, we agree. But to the movement, nothing, not a measure aimed at the administration following and evaluating the public policies already started, no appreciation of results, no proposal to make the department have to be re-accounted for to be able to evaluate the final achievement of the objectives marked when the policies were designed, which are certainly the same years ago. This young man, among other things, says that the party that supports the government urges the government to develop a strategic plan that has already been announced for the period 2018-2022. And, all right, it's going to mean we're wearing two years without a plan, because the last one's expired since 2016, and it's going to say that this plan 2018-2022 was approved in a 2019 government agreement, which means 2018 too, so we passed it in white. A strategic marketing plan that could not count on the contributions of the sector, because, if they are called one day before to say that they are called, this is not serious. A young woman who says she has a tourism decree that doesn't have more concrete meaning, not a calendar. A decree that has been developing for years, a decree that has been publicly exposed on two occasions and that the latest additions were made in 2016! No more time, and in short, this is a fluid, ridiculous and with no serious and concrete proposal. Unfortunately, we will accept the majority of points, because we can't help but vote for some obviouss to be carried out. But this young man comes from the government, from the government that has done the most harm to the image of Catalonia and Barcelona, to the brands of Catalonia and Barcelona, and that more legal insecurity has brought us, evidences the mismanagement, that only takes steps back that take us in time, instead of looking to the future. A young man...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.109.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.110.0	... which makes obvious – I finish, president – the inability to give solutions to the sector, but above all it shows its inability to govern. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.111.0	In the name now, and to fix his position, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word the deputy Mr Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.112.0	President, Councillor, Councillor, Members and Members, advance that we will vote affirmatively on this motion, but I also sincerely say that we will do so with an enthusiastic relationship. It is very difficult to vote against the document presented to us by Mr. Roquer, because we are before a young man I would say that force was obvious, full of generalities and that it does not bring anything else, no new measure. For one thing, we might think that it's a young man to soap the government; but from another point of view, and they're a little misconceptional, we might also think that it's a question of totality to the government's tourism policy. Why do we say that? If this very young man, with the same content, with the same text, presents her to a parliamentary opposition group, the reading of this young man would surely be: "As the government does nothing, as it does not rule, nor does it only pull out those things which it approves, in memory, we make the list of things that it is not doing, right? The first point of the motion proposed to develop the Pla stratègique de turisme de Catalunya and the plat de marqueting. Well, fanciful; it would just be missing that the government that drafts and approves a plan does not have the intention, the intention to apply it. And for what he does to the marketing plan, I don't want to let the occasion pass without saying that the priority from our point of view is no more promotion, more marketing, because more people come in August. Our priority should be, we think, how we manage the tourism we have and work for a major occupation in the low season, is to, say, deseasonalize the tourism, and not work because more tourists come in the high season. The second point: work in the network between departments of the Generality. Clearly, the question I see in the head is quite simple: what is not done? We thought that yes, that the government is working in the network, at these movie heights; but seeing the young man seems to be not too much. The third point: to deploy a series of initiatives and instruments that allow for a better transfer of knowledge. Well, this point is that it's gotten a little better, still said, with the incorporation of the Tourist Innovation Plan. The fourth point: develop the Catalonia Tourism Quality Program. Well, then, yes, and so much, let's do it; but we're late! The central government already has the Q of tourist quality; we still don't, or we haven't developed it yet. The fifth point of the motion: adapting the legal and regulatory framework of tourism to the needs of the sector. Also the questions that are hidden are enough obvious: how to do it? With five instruments? With what measures? What are these needs of the sector? And finally, the sixth point of the motion: to develop the Tourism Decree Project. It is difficult to develop something that has not been approved. What is the problem that prevents the tourism plan from being approved? The new tourism regulation decree was intended to incorporate it into the Law of fiscal and financial measures, accompanying the assumptions of 2016. As there were no presuppositions, a new administration process had to be initiated. The August of 2016 – I repeat, the August of 2016 – the Government drew public information to the Project of decree of regulation of tourism, if I do not recall badly, to public information, for a second time. We're having a fever, late February 2019, it's been two years and a half, and the decree hasn't approved yet. But it's that, besides, it's not a minor issue. There are fears that they are monamental and that you are predicting and predicting, and well predicting, what rules the decree: tourist accommodation; new tourist accommodation modalities, such as hotels; shared housing; regulation of motorhome assembly areas; inspections and tourism administrative discipline; modification and/ or new regulation of the tourism fount, etc. It is to say that it is a decree expected, it is a necessary decree, it is an essential decree. So good, therefore – and with this I finish – the House serves to remind the Government of the pending assignments it has in the field of tourism, or at least some of the pending assignments it has in the field of tourism, and so the Government, which assumes its responsibilities and its competences, because we are talking, Members and Members, of a key sector of the Catalan economy, which generates 14_percent direct employment and represents 12_percent of GDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.113.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, has the words of Mrs Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.114.0	Thank you, President. I think it is that the gentlemen and ladies of Junts per Cat have been handed over a motion from the last legislature. And I'm going to read a news story from January 29th: "The Government has approved this Tuesday, the Council Executive, the new Strategic Tourism Plan of Catalonia 2018-2022, which aims to establish the basis for managing tourism activity and growing. That is to say, the Government already approved on 29 January the strategic tourism plan which you defend in this motion. I dare to assure you that this tourism plan which you are talking about certainly contains seven axes which are being developed through twenty-nine more concrete initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen of Junts per Cat, what is the idea? , come here in two weeks to tell us how quickly they have developed the Strategic Tourism Plan? Do you know what the problem is? That you go two years late: a strategic plan that should have started in 2018 and is approved in 2019. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it is only up to you to implement the strategic plan in question. It is a question of you encouraging yourself to work on the development of the plan, because it depends directly on your Government and not on this Parliament. So leave so much theater, stop coming here to make us believe you're working... You also advocate in paragraph 4 of this motion the development of a tourist quality programme in Catalonia, aimed at highlighting and recognizing tourist establishments and services which are actively collaborating to tackle the fight against labour inequalities and non-awareness with the environment and the environment. It is curious that you want to make us believe that you are defenders of labour rights, when you yourselves were the first to turn your back on the workers of Catalonia, when it was you who, last November, aligned with the citizens' lords and ladies to vote against and down point 2 of our motion, on the working conditions of workers in the tourism sector, where the Government was asked to be an example of good practice by hiring only hotel services that respect and have recognized the seal of quality and requirements announced in that motion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, let us leave ourselves, as I have told you before, in theatre and put ourselves to real work. Shave your sleeves and start working, because you're late, but it's too late. And, instead of putting you to make proposals that you will not comply with, put you at least to execute the decisions of this chamber, which is what Catalonia, Catalans and Catalans need. And start by shutting down the tasks they have pending, which are not very few. Get to work and get out the fair and quality work seal of the hospitality and catering sector that was approved here, because you are running out of time, ladies and gentlemen of the Government. Start there if you really want to make real and effective policies that really influence the fight against labour inequality in the tourism sector. We are waiting for you, the workers in the tourism sector are waiting for you, the Kellys are waiting for you. For all this, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, voting ‘yes or' no to your motion today is almost the same, because it is not a decision of this Parliament that you want to put yourself to work or not: it is only up to you. However, we will vote in favour, to see if they are encouraged or encouraged to do so and start ruling. Thank you so much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.115.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the turn of the Member of the House of Representatives Natialia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.116.0	President, from the Escó. I'll be brief, because we haven't talked about tourism very often, they know perfectly well what the CUP position is - they're calling this question. Also highlight – and he had it here... – that the question of the marketing plan announced it earlier, 2018-2020, and that, moreover, by analyzing this marketing plan that we are now proposing to be encouraged and given recourse to, what we see is that this government continues to do what we already knew: to think of a line to strengthen a neo-liberal tourism model, the strongest neo-liberal model, based on growth, growth and growth, prioritizing private work and marketing from all that is possible because it comes more people and comes more people, as always without taking into account the negative consequences that this has on the popular and working classes, on the environment and the territory, on the working conditions of people working in the tourism sector. And so we can't support it, because it's this short-term look that doesn't really take these consequences into account. We study, of course, we have indicators, but we develop and implement a system of indicators on tourist pressure, on which are these impacts on the population, the environment, housing and working conditions of life. And they never propose that, because they deny this reality, when it is a reality that is obviously palpable. Because especially those of us who are from territories where tourism has crossed our coasts, have crossed our territories, have forced us to precarise ourselves with little pay and no guarantee of labour rights, which we have lived in these territories especially know and have lived in our own for whom are the negative consequences of this tourism. And until they really reflect on the consequences of continuing to think about this idea of constant growth, so we can't really come up with some realistic proposals that put life at the centre.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.117.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mrs Esperança García's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.118.0	Thank you, President; I'll do it from the escó. Look, I really don't believe it. I've seen this young man... I believe that you, the lords of Juntes for Catalonia, have been carried away by a spiral of incredible cynicism. You, what have you done so badly to Catalonia, with the theme of tourism, now, bring us this young man? Don't you feel ashamed? Talk about improving the competitiveness of tourism in Catalonia. Do you believe that improving competitiveness is calling for and encouraging waves, "country waves, as you call them, from your government? Do you think it's better to improve public space and that there's no visual degradation of touristic spaces nailing caves to Catalan plagiarism? Do you think that this compromise that you carry in this young man is to fill the whole public street with plastic groceries, painted groves all over the place? Do you think that they are specialists in designing strategic and marketing plans, when it turns out that the German Foreign Ministry, the Canadian, and the United Kingdom's ministers recommend to their citizens that they do not come to Catalonia because there have been waves, continuous demonstrations that end up with riots with the Mosso d'Esquadra? Look, we will vote in favour, of course, of this young man, despite the cynicism that you have brought to this chamber today, but we will do it out of responsibility, the one that you do not have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.119.0	Finally, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Baró has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.120.0	All right. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, councillors, the public who accompany us, I will go to the grass. From our point of view, tourism is a complex sector and it is a sector of great economic relevance, contributes in a 12_per_cent to GDP, represents a 14_per_cent of the occupation and generates more than 450,000 places of direct and indirect work. It is also a sector with relevant negative externalities, initially based on a model that, at that time, ended up prioritizing the quantity before quality, and the growth untangled and at any price before the balanced and sustainable growth. As we are now, our model has been for a long time. We defend a model of tourism that tends to excel and this happens because Catalonia is a quality destination, which takes advantage of the potential of the Barcelona brand to attract, but not only to limit the tourist experience. A model that respects the country and its people; a model that enhances territorial balance; a model that generates wealth and that this is distributed as equitably as possible, that respects and guarantees labor rights; in short, a model where everyone wins, visitors and natives. This is a model that needs to be deepened into four concepts that seem to be key to us: de-seasonalizing tourism; diversifying tourism; de-centralizing, decongesting tourism; and increasing tourist spending, not the number of tourists. Therefore, from our optics, this young man, therefore, poses on the table tools which seem essential to us, necessary and which, in some way, seems to us to contribute to the absolutation of this model of tourism as necessary we see and, therefore, we will vote in favour. Tanmateix, I do take advantage of some thoughts and considerations. The most recent data from the tourist activity in Catalonia related to this latest 2018 show that we still have a lot and a lot of way to get to this model that describes them, surely, in good part, because paradigm changes involve complex structural changes. For example, 47_percent of tourism activity is concentrated in four_months of the year, from June to September. That is to say, it still suffers from high seasonality, and this high seasonality does not only contribute to the sector's job insecurity, but it stresses the system and makes it difficult for the system to remain balanced and sustainable. More data. Around 10_percent of the territory concentrates 90_percent of the country's tourist activity, mainly Barcelona and the coast. It seems obvious to us that, without decongesting the main tourist attraction poles and without empowering them of alternations and of us, hardly the benefits, the richness and all that good that also brings the tourism, hardly, will be able to distribute land of the territory. If we can get different visitors to come to attractions for different elements and interests... in what? In terms of what we offer, in terms of what we offer, in terms of what we can and can't, in terms of what channels we use access to what audiences and why. As far as we can get this, we'd be more likely to definitely overcome the still-vigorating tourist model that goes looking for sun and platter. We are an attractive and interesting country, with a lot to offer – history, culture, mountains, landscape, traditions, gastronomy, crafts, music, sports – we can diversify and we need to diversify and, in all this, the local world has a lot to say, because the tourist diversification we want to drink, in large part, of the diversity and variety of realities that exist in the local world and in our municipalities. We could go on and I'm not sure if I'll have enough time, so I'd like to finish by focusing, in this sense, on the two things that are going on: one, we understand that it's already done – it's already done – a diagnostic. It is important that there is an accurate diagnosis, an appropriate political vision, that little is given to rigorous – rigorous – public policies, based on knowledge, based on innovation, on the analysis of trends, on indicators, on the transfer of knowledge, on training, and that little is given to planning, of course it is. The Pla stratègique de turisme de Catalunya is welcome, as is the Pla de marqueting, the Pla d'innovation touristique, the Program de qualité turistice de Catalunya and which gives little to a good regulation. Therefore, please also welcome the tourism decree project. So, together with this, I think it's important to keep that risk that sometimes flat on the Administration, right? , which is the risk of paralysis for analysis. To analyze a lot, to review the revisions of the diagnostics, sometimes, prevents something that is also essential, that is the proper execution of public policies, touching from few to the ground, lowering them to reality, making them permeable, involving and expanding the complicity of the actors in the sector. It seems to us that involving the private sector, public administrations and citizens is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.121.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.122.0	... – I have ended up – it is essential and that, without both cares of the currency, we can hardly realize this model of tourism so necessary for the country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.123.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To pronounce on the papers, has the word, now, the deputy Mr Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.124.0	Thank you, President. Well, the young lady was one, huh? Some have understood it in one way, others have understood it in another, but it was a single motion. Mrs. Vílchez told me that the sector is not going to be consulted to make the strategic plan and the marketing plan and, in 2016-2017, I participated in multiple tables in Girona where there was all the sector sitting around the table to determine the marketing plan and to determine the strategic tourism plan of Catalonia. Someone told me he didn't recognize working conditions. I have recognised the wage gap between the tourism sector and the rest of the sectors, and for this reason I have asked the Government, so we ask my group to take steps to eliminate this deficit. And tell me Mr.Hope Garcia that we have been the government that has done worse things so that tourists will not come – I don't know – all year 2018. I don't know how many embassies and I don't know how many groups in the world indicated that Catalonia was not visited for the terrible images that there were, I suppose, of '1 October police paying people. So, well, I have to tell you that all these embassies and all these powers didn't work because in Catalonia, 2018, no more tourists came than the previous year and it didn't work... And then you say: "There have been fewer inside tourists. Less domestic tourists have come to all of Catalonia and all of Spain, because all of Spain has moved less. There are seven autonomous communities in which the decline of tourism has been higher than in Catalonia, communities as independent as Asturias, Navarre, Castile - La Mancha, Murcia, Galicia, Aragó or Euskadi itself. For what he does to them. Mrs. Vílchez, I'll take the message to point 3, because the general direction is to put the batteries and come to explain the initiations. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.125.0	Thank you, Members. We called for a vote. [[Gerard Gómez del Moral and Fuster asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Moral Gomez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.126.0	Yes, President. No, for the contradictions of Mrs. Vílchez. I've waited for the debate to end so as not to interrupt the debate explicitly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.127.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.128.0	Yeah. It was only because of the institutional declaration, to remind you that not only all groups have said that we agree with the text, but that you actually make an institutional declaration for, say, commemorating the 28th of February as the Day of Andalusia and we have proposed is an addition to this text, to denounce and give solidarity to the people of Andalusia, because you, with the People's Party, have agreed with the extreme right, that you have as your proposal to eliminate the Day of Andalusia, the 28th of February. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.129.0	Thank you, Congressman. Let's get to the vote. Are there separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Is it possible to vote all over the House? Let us then proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The motion following the Government's inquiry into tourism was approved by 122 votes in favour, 2 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into Salamanca's papers]] [[302-00063/12]] We follow the order of the day and pass to the next point, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the papers of Salamanca, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Catalonia. You have the word to expose it to Mr. Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.130.0	Thank you, President. President Torra, Councillors, Members and Members, yes, the motion that we will put to the vote today, now, is a motion subsequent to the questioning of the papers of Salamanca which, in the last plenary, the Honourable Councillor Laura Borràs and I carried out. Therefore, perhaps, it is not the time to remember all the arguments, all the data and all the chronology of this matter of bad memory, unfortunately, that are the papers of Salamanca. But we do want to remember that they are still thirty thousand leaves to be returned to their owners. And it is worth remembering, of course, that we are talking about recovering what was confiscated by war booty to the Government of the Generality, to citizens and citizens of Catalonia, to entities, associations and other administrations. Perhaps, for someone, Salamanca's papers can sound like that angry song, that repetitive song, insisting, that it can, at last, get to use the listener. Look, if that happens to anyone, I would recommend that you review your social rights, civic rights, tolerance, yours, and perhaps even your own democratic minimums, because they might not be right. We will not close the eyes to the papers of Salamanca, we will not close the eyes to the papers of Salamanca because I would like to close the eyes to dignity and I would like to close the eyes to the dismemberment of the Spanish State that it has had in this area. And, in fact, I would like to close my eyes to many and many things that, from Salamanca papers and thousands more attacks on our institutions, have brought us to today's situation. We have felt many times, for the leader of the opposition, that we are already tired and we are tired. I would recommend that vineyard of the Philip, of the Mafalda, in which the Philip observes a monument to the tireless fighter and, in the drawing below, says: "Home, this has no merit. The merit is to be tired and keep fighting. We will continue to fight, yes, we are tired or not, we will continue to fight for the papers of Salamanca, for dignity, and for justice, and for good cultural policy and for the return of these papers. And on this line was the motion we're presenting today. A young man who expresses support for the government to continue working. "Continue working as the Bilateral Commission meets; "Continue working as the documental background returns in its entirety, both those who are in the Salamanca archives, such as the concept of "papers of Salamanca extrapolable to other places and it is clear, and we reflect on the motion, those of the Avila Military Archives, that the year 41 were confiscated from the Republican Generality, in Paris, and that they were used to continue the General Cause against Red Spain, and to continue with repression, and that today they are in the Military Archives, from the Ministry of Defence, to Avila, the Ministry of Defence that we have learned for the pressing of these days that is devoted to changing files to Viquipèdia, and that there are also French members who have been subjected to the banishment, to the banishment, to the banishment, to the banishment, to the banishment, to the banishment, to the banishment, to the banishment, to the banishment, to the banishment, to the banish, Our young lady, therefore, is on this line. That's the first point. And according to that we want to address the theme of the papers of Salamanca, also making the element of the additional arrangement of the Statue, according to which the foundations close to Catalonia, located in the Archihu de la Corona d'Aragó and the Royal Archihu de Barcelona, integrate into the system of archihus of Catalonia. On this point, as we have a point, which we have accepted, of the Socialist Group Unites per Avance, then, on the next return, I will just mention it. And it was only to finish that he wanted to make the support of the Commission of the Dignity, the civil society, for its work, its valuable work, which, since 2003, and before all, has been done for our institutions. Moreover, to demand the support of all parliamentary groups in this House. Many and many mercies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.131.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Socialist Group Unites for Progress, it is now the return of Congressman Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.132.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Members and Members, allow me to dedicate a few seconds, at the beginning of the intervention, to remind you that today, just today, it is complete that thirty-three years ago the assassination of Olof Palme, and if the record on the occasion of this young man that the group proposing to us is because among many other things that could be highlighted from this social-democratic badge, his support for the anti-Franco struggle and his fight against dictatorship was highlighted. And that's why I think it's fair, too, that one day we remember. In this band, too, it has been relatively few days since it was commemorated – and I think it is a commemoration that is worth it for a while to last – the vast anniversary of withdrawal and exile. As all present know, it is not exactly commemorated the twenty-eighth anniversary of the end of the Civil War, because it was still extended for a time, no longer in the territory of Catalonia, which was occupied by the Francoist tropes before the Spanish Second Republic finally fell. I am also aware, because we have unfortunately had the occasion to see as in the course of an act of disintegration to the victims of exile, to the victims of Francoism, among which are, yes, Azaña and Machado, but also so many others, also, even though some cannot understand it, there is also a recollection of companies and Irla in these tributes to Azaña, Machado and all the Republican exiles, we can see, unfortunately, as some ultranationalists, in view of passing the venerable, serene, worthy tests nevades of the Spanish republicans, they were incredible to the crit de faixistes. You can't imagine the pain that this has inflicted on so many families, so many republicans and Spanish republicans, and Catalans, who see in this act of disintegration, mass up and down, also the recognition of their families, the people who went to the camp of Algerians, the companies of workers and who also suffered internment in the camps of Nazi extermination. What a big mistake, what a pain to see. But in any case, it was also a matter of withdrawal, because in the withdrawal, which is a military operation, surely of the most complicated, the republican tropes made a great effort to protect the civilian population that is withdrawn from the French border, which gradually retreated back to the French border, and also to move and destroy the documentation that might fall into the hands of the French regime. Unfortunately, the work, as is normal in circumstances as extreme and as chaotic as it is a withdrawal as it was produced in Catalonia, was not complete and, therefore, the documentation recovery services of the Franco army, which were fully transferred to Catalonia when this fell under Franco domination, recovered many documents. And of these documents, many, unfortunately, were destroyed, directly, because they did not contain that information that interested them, information that was used to elaborate police files, to act against those who had been supporters of republican legality, and also against those who had some kind of political, trade union, and cultural significance against the ideas of the Franco regime. Many years ago, after the recovery of democratic institutions, the year 95, a first attempt was made, with the impulse of the Catalan civil society, and also of the Catalan institutions – the Government of Catalonia had demanded, from its very reconstruction, the transfer of the archives close to Catalonia – there was a first attempt, it was frustrated by a final parliamentary term and then because it was the People's Party, which was not a supporter of this, and then 2005 came a law. 1,480,000 leaflets and other documents have been transferred to Catalonia, and I can tell you, because I would like to end this, that I should continue with the transfer of the remaining 30,000 leaflets, of the 4,500 remaining in the Avila Military Archives, because, among other things, there are organizations like my own, from the hands of the National Archives of Catalonia, membership cards to socialist groups that, for which it was, did not follow the order to join the PSUC, membership cards donated on 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 July of 36. It has not been possible to find the descendants of these people who had joined socialist groups at that time, but I, from here on out, would like to pay tribute to the people who, in such difficult circumstances and knowing that they risked their lives, decided to frame themselves in organizations that defended republican legality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.133.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Matías Alonso has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.134.0	Thank you very much, President. President, Councillors, Members of Parliament, as we can expect, coming from this young man, it is a step further a retreat of true myths, when not directly of faults chained in his exposition of motius, which makes the usual settlement of separatism, of pedagogy of weight. Go ahead, ladies and gentlemen of the Puigdemont fan club, which – I want to make it very clear to you – we will not support this young man. The inquiry, in which the proposed group served only two minutes of the 15 available, following the usual structure of the policy dialogue between friends, at the highest level of the Executive, wanted to get in full as difficult as it is to claim from the State. In fact, all of us, this Parliament, and of course the Government of the Government of Catalonia, all of which do not carry it well, we are state, with capital. Therefore, what is difficult is not to claim to the State, the difficulty that separatist groups have is that they do not want to recognize the full force of the only legitimate and democratic mark: the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy. And they do not want to follow the administrative lines of our democratic order, since the institutional loyalty that forces us all. In any case, I do have only five minutes to make five cents of the motive for which we will not support this young man. Go ahead with full recognition of the rights, recognized by the law, recognized and protected by the law, from which you have made document as a consequence of the Civil War. In this sense, we also recognize the task of the Commission of the Dignity. It must also be noted that from Ciutadans we defend the legitimacy of democratic institutions, of actors and public officials who have the responsibility to vet, in the case they are in, for the compliment of the democratic mandate that goes back to Law 21/2005. This motion backwards two points, with the usual ambiguity of the proposed group. It's nothing but mass, nothing or all folded up. The first point asks this Parliament to express its support to the Government of the Generality in its full recovery task of all the object documentary sources of the motion, a task that should be done by the Government. Of course he's not doing it or at least he's not doing it with due diligence and determination that he should have done the last few legislatures. So, if I have to, what do you do? You already have the warrant to do it, a warrant, plus, in the form of a law. I don't think he's coming to ask us for the impulse he's missing. In any case, given the political priorities of this Government, only we, the Ciutadans Group, can support ourselves. We, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, will not support this government, which, on the other hand, does not need it. If you want to work to recover the remaining documentary sources, you can do it and you have tools to do it. What do you do by using the democratic instruments that you have at your disposal, by not doing the usual heavyweight pedagogy. Respect the second point, I want to be very clear. From Ciutadans, we believe that the Arxiu de la Corona d'Aragó must be preserved and its integrity integrated. We believe that this archive must be guarded by the Government of Spain, because it is an archive of the Kingdom of Spain. From Ciutadans, we believe that in order to have a certain competence, in this case the one that is claimed on the funds propitious to Catalonia, there is not enough to declare it and to claim it, there is not enough to include this demand in an additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy. The documentary background of the Arxiu de la Corona d'Aragó comes from the Corona d'Aragó, which is part of the Crown of Spain. Therefore, we defended its integrity, and we wanted to keep it out of separatism control. We believe that history must be preserved, with capitalization. The integrity of the documentary sources guarded for the Arxiu de la Corona d'Aragó facilitates access to this information in a systematized manner, on the part of those who may have an interest in it. We have to say, because we believe so, that the Arxiu de la Corona d'Aragó is managed with an indisputable professionalism that guarantees neutrality in the achievement of its purposes: custody, preservation, organization and dissemination of the accumulated documentary sources in the last seven seconds, and that they belong to all of us, because they are part of the Spanish historical heritage. The Archihu already suffered episodes of manipulation interested in the hands of nationalism in the 19th century. We don't want them to repeat themselves. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.135.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word now the deputy Mrs Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.136.0	Thank you, President. It is incredible that, after eighty years, we are still so, that despite the proposed laws passed that have ordered the return of the papers from Salamanca to Catalonia, the lack of political will still has pending the delivery of documentation that was requested by repressive forces of Francoism, precisely to suppress and cause damage to the people, institutions and entities to whom these documents were taken. It is unacceptable that there are still people waiting to recover, for example, the books with which their parents had taught them to read. Because the reality is that many of the documents contained in the archives are owned by individuals, who have every right to recover them, because they were removed without legal justification and without any legitimacy. As it is also important to recover the judicial documents that reflect the repression that took place in Catalonia, public archives that are part of the memory of Catalonia and its organizations. Catalans and Catalans have the right to know how repression was organized to the left groups, and this is important, not only because of what he tells us about repression strategies, but because of the recovery of the identities of those people who were retaliated. That is why the return of the roles is an inescapable necessity for our society, and especially for the families affected by the repression of Francoism. Documentary archives are important for the preservation of collective memory and for documenting what has happened in the past and thus being able to transmit it to later generations. Because it is not only a matter of recovering the documents that were unlawfully taken from Catalonia, but of preserving the memory of what happened, in particular, of the repression that occurred during and after the Civil War. The victims of repression and Catalans and Catalans have the right to know what happened, who were the perpetrators of the violations, as stated by the UN Special Rapporteur, Pablo de Greiff, on the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition in his report on Spain of 22 July 2014. Therefore, today we will vote in favour of this motion, because it is necessary that at once we have just restored the documentary heritage required of persons, entities and institutions by Francoist force. And we are very pleased that you have accepted the amendment of the comrades of the PSC, because it is necessary to interconnect between autonomous communities with respect to shared funds, and a mutual agreement for the processing of data. And we stress the need for commitment on the part of the autonomous governments and the Government of the State to establish agreements that guarantee the right of the people to a historical and democratic memory. And finally, we will not miss this opportunity to highlight the mismanagement and lack of commitment that this Government is having in other areas of historical memory, when, one, the work of localization and exhumation of mass graves in Catalonia represents a somewhat ridiculous percent that does not reach even 0.8_percent of the total annual actions of archaeologies made in the Catalan territory; when the chains of custody of the remains of victims by enforced or involuntary disappearance exhumed in the mass graves of Catalonia are being violated; when the DNA bank of the genetic identification program that the Government created at the University Hospital of Vall d'Hebron does not exist as such; when the Government has broken the chain of custody of DNA samples of living relatives and their registration data: sequence and comparison of DNA performed are now located. And it is not that I say it, that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, have confirmed it in the answers you gave to the questions we put to you in writing, which very few days ago answered us. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.137.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the Member of the House of Commons has the word Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.138.0	Hello. It is obvious that we share the objectives of the motion with reference to the archive, remembering that these, moreover, are commitments, the return of these documents, from the time of Zapatero, which had to give response to the great civic movement that had articulated the Commission of the Dignity. It will be said that then came the PP and this sprung it all up. Also. It will be said that we are bound because now Vox can come and still it would be worse, that these will want to take back the papers for just right of conquest, as Torrente Ballester said, but I see that now Ciutadans also does, and defense with arguments of dismemberment that are shameful, the right of conquest. But what they thought they were! What's this defense of dismemberment? The chance was meant to coincide at the time with the statements of Foreign Minister Borrell, revisionists about the causes of the Civil War. The victory of the Faixists is what brought the archives of the republican formations to Salamanca, enclosing them, of course, those of Catalan socialism. But the memoir exercise on the part of the Foreign Minister makes us responsible for this when it comes to saying that it was Catalanism that excited the coup d'état faixista of July 18, 36, an insult to which they fought for the Republic and that they were stripped of their archives. Also an insult to yourself. A big insult. Let us hope, however, that these statements do not pretend a failure to fulfil the commitments made by socialist governments to return the papers to their legitimate owners. I'm done. It also has a lot of crime to palpate a reddish on the tomb of Machado. It's a shame that memory, just as it permeates everything, makes them do this exercise as well to ignore. Machado was buried and covered with the Republican flag, symbol of the freedom stolen for this time of state. And I remind them, with him, also his words: "Everything that is ignored is despised. How ignorant and how underprivileged! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.139.0	Next, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.140.0	Thank you, President. To position us in relation to this motion that goes on the papers of Salamanca and the Archive of the Crown of Aragó. First of all, to say that we – and I think you know this – are supporters of the compliment of the laws and supporters of the compliment of the judicial resolutions. And so we're not moving from here. And the government, in any case, has the laws and judicial resolutions that say what they say. And, therefore, it does not require the explicit support of this Parliament, and we will not give the explicit support to this Parliament either. What they must demand is the compliment of laws and judicial resolutions, and they must also complete laws and judicial resolutions in those obligations which also affect the Government of the Generality and which, therefore, must also last long because there is this just reciprocity. And with regard to the Arxiu de la Corona d'Aragó, we do not understand the claim that there may be a fragmentation, that there is only Catalonia managed by Catalans, and there is Catalonia outside, so it is managed with all the coordination tools that you need. We believe in the Arxiu de la Corona d'Aragó unit, and that it must be perfectly available for some and others, and therefore for the conjunct of Spaniards. In this sense, we cannot support this young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.141.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it's the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and on their behalf I've shown it... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Pardon, yes, Congresswoman Elisenda Alamany, who asks to make use of her right of intervention. Forward, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.142.0	Yes, the question of Salamanca's papers is the story of hundreds of thousands of people in Catalonia who suffered from entrepreneurship, exile, death and massive confiscations at the hands of Francos for the sole act of defending Catalonia, freedom and democracy. The government of the state has to hear that with this non-return not only violates the historical memory, but is an insult to the victims of the franchise. Those who can't or don't want to remember the past are ordered to repeat it. And so, to get back the papers is to get back a piece of our story, of this Catalonia that's from everyone and everyone. My vote will therefore be in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.143.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now yes – excuse me –, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, has the word Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.144.0	Thank you, President. President Torra, advisors, deputies and deputies, well, how I sock lefts and sock a little carcass, as Mr Pablo Casado says, that the lefts are always talking about the war of grandfather and the pit of who, so today we come to claim the historical reparation of the papers of Salamanca. Because yes, as Alamany said now, a country also explains itself with its memory and its past cure, so that it can build its future on democratic foundations. We already have the 'carques', which we like to run in the contradictions of a state which is democratic, but which has not yet done what is expected of a country of the 21st century. We like, as Mr. Borrell says, like Catalans, to excite Francoist nationalism; only for one thing: to expose it and fight it. We do not make up our own minds or make up any literature on the situation either. Councilman Romeva, who is unfortunately in court and not in Parliament where he should be, makes it very clear: "Being clear with the past requires doing justice with memory, fulfilling the duty to restore dignity, even though it is forty years later. In this case, it's a few more years, but as long as it goes, we won't get into this anymore. Endurance of those documents, books and flags, like the war booty, was part of the political repression of the students. The forms have changed, but in the Spanish State there is still a lot of work to do, but there is still a lot to do not to use repression to make revenge politics, to despair. Salamanca's papers have been a demand, and we celebrate that, despite everything, the government and the councilwoman is not resigned to lose 'lsper' forever. The last few days we're not seeing justice in Spain in its best moments, to say the least, and the French hangover still hard now. And that's why we find it so adhering that this debate today we can do to Parliament. Also, to honor our President Forcadell, who declared and defended us all – without exception – because here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, we can talk about everything, also the papers of Salamanca and the lack of collaboration that the governments of the State have had on this issue. Perhaps if we made a list of the weights and the little response given by the governments to the needy of Catalonia – we would appear, in the sense of doubt, the papers of Salamanca –, some would have come to terms with why we are here doing what we do and in the way we do it. The dictatorship still fights for some reasons of the State. And we understand that it is resisting the return of the last documents remaining from the papers of Salamanca. Just as he still holds the power and privileges of those who were at the side of the dictator and find him missing so many days. We understand that there is resistance, because some find that there is a lack of joy with which Catalan society could be undermined before, with spoils of war, stealing their assets and making it uncomplex, as they pretend to make the extreme right face discovered in the courts. We appreciate it. We are grateful that at least they do not store up so that they can make frontal opposition until the last consequences. Some find themselves lacking, as I said, the tranquillity with which a whole fighting and peaceful people could be deprived. We see it every day in court. And it seems to us that the complaint of the papers of Salamanca is only one of the many complaints that we make from Catalonia. That's why we would vote in favour of it, and because, as Montserrat Roig said – also a little ‘carca' – "if there's an act of love, it's memory. I take advantage of the rostrum to send a message to Mr. Pablo Casado from here. They have managed, among others, that memory and historical justice no longer follow a question of the left, of the "carques, but of the democrats, and above all of the anti-faixists, which is what we have followed, we are and always are. Companion Cuixart said the other day: "They will not pass. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.145.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, and to position himself on the papers, has the word again the deputy Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.146.0	Thank you, President. Four telegraphic things. It doesn't surprise me that... in the intervention of the deputy of Citizens we have detected many and many contradictions, immense, but it doesn't surprise me, because if they are the ones who have Vox managing the historical memory in Andalusia, it's still a facsimile and it seems to me that's exactly what it is. [[Greetings.]] And I'm not surprised either, if they're the group that avoids condemning the franchise to the Senate, as it happened in 2018. That said, these contradictions do not need to emerge. On the Arxiu de la Corona d'Aragó, please, it has its origin and thickness in the Arxiu de la Diputació del General de Catalunya, and for this reason it is found in Barcelona, that the eighteenth century was rebutted, from the decree of Nova Planta, with the name of Arxiu de la Corona d'Aragó. That's the question. We, at the points we have to agree, have not spoken at any time of title; we would already like it. We say: « The sources close to Catalonia located in the Arxiu de la Corona d'Aragó and in the Arxiu Reial of Barcelona integrate into the system of arxius. The PSC's companies have spelled out the threat of the Tretzen additional arrangement in its integrity. There's no problem, we've accepted it, we've already said it. Talk about effective management. We could do what we do to the committees: "To continue effective management – this is the mark; we will continue. With archival technology and documentation, you can perfectly do everything that this socialist brand has to do with. Yes, I would say that, from the statements of the Statue, from the additional dispositions of the Statue – dexi'mfer the joke –, there would be many and many more to be able to reproduce in its literality here. You've already understood me... Just to finish. Miri, one day we'd have to start talking about the Barcelona Civil Government Archive as well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.147.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.148.0	...that is in a state-owned mobile park garage, unsatisfied, poorly managed, and that we would like some time the state to start working on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.149.0	Congressman... thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.150.0	We called for a vote. I don't know if there's any separate motion for a vote, although there are only two points, if I don't make a mistake, in this case... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez. You're both separated, aren't you? [[Pause.]] All right. So we'll vote separately for the two points of this young man. [[Pause.]] Let's hope everyone's followed... [[Widow's remorse.]] Members, I am sure the debate is very interesting, but they will be able to continue after voting. [[Pause.]] We vote, therefore, on the first point of this motion. The vote begins. Point 1 of this motion was approved by 85 votes to 38, with no abstentions. And now we're voting for the second point of this young man. The vote begins. The second point of this motion was approved by 85 votes in favour, against and 38 abstentions. We now suspend the session until two-quarters of the late four. Thank you very much. [[The session is suspended at three quarters of midday and three minutes and is resumed at two quarters of four in the late afternoon. He chairs the Speaker of Parliament, accompanied by first and second vice-presidents and secretaries first, second and third. Attend the table the major and the late Anna Casas and Gregory.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.151.0	Let's resume the session. [[Question to the Government on gender equality]] [[300-00084/12]] The next item on the agenda is the question to the Government on gender equality; an question presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. In order to expose it, the honourable Member Ms Beatriz Silva has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.152.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Commissioner, before I begin my speech, I would like to thank the presence in the Chamber of a small delegation of the housekeepers, the Kellys, who have wanted to accompany us today. The UN estimates that in the world seven_of_each_ten poor are women, and this is because the gender perspective is not incorporated into the economy or public policies of most countries. It's not in Catalonia either. This explains that in recent years the wage gap and working conditions of women vis-à-vis men have not improved despite the fact that we have a specific law that seeks to put an end to the situations of inequality suffered by women. In 2009, the wage gap in Catalonia was 23_per_cent, and in 2016, the last figure we have available, remained 23_per_cent. This means that women in Catalonia charge €6,500 less per year than men. The wage gap is also higher the lower the wages, where it is placed at levels around 34_per_cent. Women are better educated, but they suffer more unemployment than men and more precarious work: 74_percent of part-time contracts in Catalonia are women. This is because they are offered no other option and also because cuts in day-care centres and in dependencies in recent years have resulted in women having to take care of daughters and children, but also dependent persons. In fact, 97_percent of people who recognize that they work part-time in Catalonia because they need to spend time caring for children, the sick or the elderly are women. Part-time work translates into less income, less chance of rising to positions of responsibility and less contribution for retirement, which ultimately leads to a higher risk of poverty. Women also make up the bulk of the people who charge less than a thousand euros in Catalonia, are seven_of_each_ten, and represent 64_per_cent of the people who charge the minimum income of reintegration. In addition, the majority of women in Catalonia work in occupations that are in the worst-paid sectors. 84_per_cent of them are maids, dependents, administrators or domestic workers. In fact, 88_percent of the domestic labour force in Catalonia are women, many of them immigrants, who work without social security contributions and for salaries which in many cases do not exceed 343_euro. These worse working conditions have a bearing on women's lives. On average, men's pensions are EUR 1,190 compared to EUR 691 for women, or half. In addition, women triple the number of men receiving pensions below the EUR 500. How does an older woman who is alone and has less than five hundred euros a month live? The entities that attend them describe floors of forty_metres_square, dark, full of humidity, where there is no heating and the thermometer marks less than ten degrees at this time of year. They're not the only women in this situation. Another collective that faces similar precariousness is that of women who are alone in charge of the household and who have virtually no specific benefits, which means that more than 40_per_cent of the single-maritime families in Catalonia live below the threshold of the poor. And I stress the fact that they are single-maritime because the vast majority of households where there is only one adult in charge are made up of single mothers or divorced women, women who face job instability, who have enormous difficulties in reconciling work and family life, and in most cases do not get access to decent housing; they live with their sons and daughters re-housed in rooms or out-of-home. A significant part of 28.5_percent of children living below the poverty level in Catalonia live in single-maritime households. The Act on Effective Equality of Women and Men, which was adopted in 2015, aims to prioritize measures to combat the feminization of poverty with particular attention to the most vulnerable groups. I'd like to ask the councilwoman today what is being done for these women. Article 47 of the Equality Act stipulates that it is the duty of public administrations to design comprehensive and specific programmes for women in a situation of economic precariousness and risk of social exclusion; point 4 specifically refers to support for single-maritime families. From my parliamentary group we want to know which specific items this year will be allocated to reduce the poverty rate by 43_percent of these families. We would also like to know what programmes and items are being allocated so that women who have had to leave their jobs because of cuts in day care and in dependence in recent years can return to the labour market. We would like to see an in-depth discussion about the labour, social and economic inequality between men and women, but also about the feminization of poverty, which has been exacerbated in these years of crises and cuts, and which, however, remain without being a political priority. And it is not because none of the agreements adopted so far by the Government of Catalonia have included a single line on these issues. They are also not addressed in depth in the governance plan, which covers only six pages in 136 to talk about equality; it mentions, for example, the promotion of high-level women's sport, a goal we share, but does not include a shock plan for women in charge of a single-maritime family or a model of public housing to address the social emergency situation, which mainly affects women. Another example of the extreme insecurity suffered by women in Catalonia, which is not mentioned in the government agreements adopted so far or in this government plan, is represented by the hotel maids, who are accompanying us here today. Many of these women face exhausting days every day for which some receive a salary of just six hundred euros; they are exhausting because in eight_hours they are forced to clean up to thirty rooms, which forces them to work under extreme pressure. They make beds, clean bathrooms, carry mattresses..., all activities that cause them chronic diseases, problems in the cervicals, in the lumbars, degenerative and invalidating diseases that result in 71_per_cent of them need medication to go to work. Moreover, with the aggravating fact that many do not have a contract, because they are self-employed fakes and are not eligible for paid employment. How many men in Catalonia have jobs as precarious and poorly paid as the Kellys? We really do not know, because, despite the fact that the reports and the unions insist on the need to have sex variables in all statistics and data collection, we do not have a real X-ray of the inequality and poverty suffered by women in Catalonia. Last January, the Government presented the Strategic Tourism Plan of Catalonia 2018-2022, and in none of its 421 pages devoted a single word to the job insecurity faced by women workers in the tourism sector, despite the fact that this same plan finds that tourism in Catalonia represents 11_per_cent of GDP and about 14_per_cent of the occupation, 400,000 jobs, including those of the housekeepers, but also many others exercised by women who do not meet minimum conditions. Last year, 40_percent of the contracts signed in Barcelona had a duration of less than one month. What is the government doing for this? I would like to know to what extent the body of labour inspectors to combat gender-based labour discrimination has grown and what efforts are being made to include the gender variable in all statistics, surveys and data collection, as provided for in article 56 of the Equality Act. The statistics also do not include the group of women who work without a contract as domestic workers and carers, who do not contribute to social security, without any protection or prospects of having a pension. What is being done to resolve this? Last June, the Observatory for Gender Equality was set up, which must ensure that the effective equality of men and women in Catalonia is respected. I would like to know the budget that will be allocated so that this observatory can play its role effectively. The Equality Act provides that biannual plans should be drawn up to encourage the quality of women's employment and that they should be accompanied by their respective impact studies. Do we have any of these plans available or at least one impact study? The Act also expressly states that the Generalitat has to make regular estimates of the economic value of domestic work and care for children and dependent persons. Have any of these studies even been done, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.153.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word has the adviser of the Presidency, Mrs. Elsa Artadi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.154.0	Well, thank you very much. Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Surely – and I am speaking on behalf of more than one of us – at the gates of a new March 8th, therefore, a deep thanksgiving to the entities, to the people who have been and who are still in the grip of the feminist struggle, who, if not for their work, for their perseverance, for their insistence, many of us certainly would not be Members, of course I would not be advising the Presidency and certainly would not be making a valid speech and combat so that we might not be aware of the inequalities that we suffer and may include ourselves in believing some slogans as we have seen today from "It is not gender violence, it is domestic violence, and it is also certain that we are not partying to this debate. That said, it is true and it will always be, that the government does not do everything perfect, but that it does a lot of work and that above all it does an intensive and transversal work. And I can very much agree with many of the things that the honourable Member has said, especially when she explains the causes of the cause of discrimination that women suffer, when they rest, I think, very thorough of the statistics to where they are the inequalities that they suffer. I also found it very interesting, because normally we don't do so much, the point he made about the great women and the impact of demography, the aging, with lower pensions, with a longer life, with a worse salvation. There are a lot of questions that I'm sure you'll get over with the question that the UPC asked, because they're from a lot of work and from the feminization of the poor, and I'm sure my partner, Councilman El Homrani, will also talk about it. On single-parent, or single-marital families, as you have called them, which seems to me to be also very appropriate, there are many measures that are specific to what you have to see, therefore, with tax impacts, with the tax measures of the Administration, which makes a specific connection precisely for these cases, given their particular vulnerability. I was asking about..., and I made a point that seemed to me, maybe, I'm telling you, one of the things that got over me the most, precisely when you say we don't make cross-cutting policies, precisely, if one of the things that's been changing along these years is precisely to inculcate cross-cutting into the policies that are made by the Government of the Generality. Worked this way or tried to work this way on the government floor, and when we speak of equality, so we find measures, to name two, of the two councillors who are here today, the Councillor of Culture and the Councillor of Health, but also for what she does to the Councillor of Justice, that the other day we went out precisely to the press wheel of the Government, so to explain it. Why are we doing this? So because we try to follow from European recommendations..., we try to follow the recommendations also of the United Nations and the 2030 Agenda that must incorporate gender equality in order to actually have a cross-cutting impact on all that is the equality of women and men. Now, as you know – because it seems to me that it has been explained to the Commission of Igualtat, it seems to me that it has also been explained through some of the entities of women–, it has just closed what is the Strategic Pla of policies of gender equality 2019-2022, and from all these proposals, which will then enter in detail and sure that in the next question still more, precisely the element that links it all is the transversality in the policies of gender as the phonative action, affecting above all and as one of the main axes, therefore, in the work and co-responsibility in the tasks. He spoke of the pockets of healing, of the pockets of so many children, as of great people, as of dependents in families. Here we base ourselves above all on a work that was done, very important, through the chamber, that gave us figures that, if they could put economic value to this entire task, it would come out a value of the female work much greater than what we have now. I was talking about working conditions, and we have to... – I'm looking for it, because it will mean well – the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families of the Councillor the Homrani is about to bring the agreement of government to improve precisely the working conditions of the cures, and the good part of the petitions formulated precisely for entities that group people who dedicate themselves to the work of the cures and the unions, that result from a fluid dialogue through a working group that was created precisely in 2017. And it is the fruit of this work, the fruit of this work in collaboration with the department – counselor... –, which will bring to fruition this agreement of government, in which the working conditions are better, that I believe surely in the next question that he has, therefore, will enter and give more detail. The observer is working together with the Idescat – and I will look for more details – precisely for what you asked for. Because what you are asking is a reality that is also called for in international circles: the need to be able to have statistical data that are not aggregates. This is happening both in the area of social measures and in the area of health measures. And that is also why in the field of salvation, therefore, it was possible to disaggregate itself and to work, with the leadership, before, of the Councillor Comín, but above all now with the Councillor Vergés, to put to it this perspective of genera, for example, in the search in the field of salvation, because we know that the evils affect in a different way the women than the men. But also, for a subject to which you make a lot of reference, that is that social conditions and social inequalities are not neutral when they have to deal with the gender, what has been done from the Health Department is precisely that in the Guide to the introduction of the gender perspective, in which it is the planning of salvation..., to ensure, therefore..., as we say, that there is a wage gap, there is a gap in the effectiveness of the policies of salvation between men and women, and that is why it has been corrected. Fruit of the tasks as much as the perspective of genera in the field of research as the perspective of genera in planning, there have also been specific programs to better care for women, such as the model of attention to endometriosis and other diseases that are if not..., invisibilities and that affect us much more..., well, in this case that affect us exclusively to the women. On the subject of statistics..., and excuse me, because I have been loaded with all the documentation of all the departments, because despite the fact that you insist that we do not have the prospect of generating fem, and now I don't know if I will find it... – and if I don't have it in the next comeback – the work of the department in the observatory and how it works together with the Idescat, precisely to have what is also the statistical data, the data of economic and social development – I don't find it... – of the women and how I can have these indicators. In any case – and now I'm going to look for it, because I can't find it now, the topic of statistics, I'm sorry – we're at the door, and so she explained on behalf of the president of the ICD – which I take advantage of to greet her, who is here – in committee, on the other day, of the approval of this cross-cutting plan, of this plan that affects all departments of the Generality. It is a pleasure that we have had the chance to work with all the entities that belong to the National Council of Women of Catalonia, that are more than four hundred; that we have been able to work and receive contributions from all the services of information and attention of the women to the local authorities, that are also one hundred and two; that we have been able to have contributions on behalf of the sixty vocals of the members of the National Commission for the Coordinated Intervention of Masclist Violence, of the Service and Comprehensive Recovery Resource Network and of the thirteen departments of the Generality. What have we been doing when this plan has been developed? So we've been working with sectoral plans. You have named sports, as if the only place we cared about were sports in the elite, but we have been working on plans in the Interior; we have been working on co-education plans in the Department of Education, more than the councillor's commitment to withdraw and..., not to renew the concerts in schools that secrete by sex, precisely to maintain and strengthen this co-education; we have been making plans from the Department of Culture, not only for the topic of invisibility, for the theme of..., for a band, demonstrate to society what are the contributions of women, for cultural change and for breaking stereotypes, but also for the production band and to incorporate the women artists into all their faces, all too often. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And now go on – I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.155.0	Thank you, Counselor. Again and for the reply, the Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.156.0	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your explanations. I celebrate the things you've explained to me. In any case, I would like to point out that I never said in my speech that this Government was not doing cross-cutting policies; in fact, before preparing my speech I reviewed the website and tried to ask about the things about which I do not find information and to which I would like to have some concrete answers. With regard to the governance plan, I was able to see on the website that only two equality objectives have been implemented to combat discrimination on the grounds of sex in the workplace: one has to do with the gender perspective in public policies, and the other to facilitate access for innovative women to European funding. However, not a single action has been taken to combat wage inequality in companies or to combat the harshest forms of precariousness suffered by women in the world of work. If there is one that is not on the web, you can explain it to me today. I also find it difficult to understand that among the objectives of the strategic tourism plan and among its vertebrate axes there is talk of increasing the number of visitors, diversifying the offer, bringing investments, ensuring good conditions for companies, but none of them mention the need to promote a model in which the wealth generated by tourism, on which the work of the housekeepers depends, is translated into decent and quality jobs. I'd like you to explain to me why you haven't thought about this. From Catalonia there is room to combat the situations we are putting forward here today. In the case of housekeepers, for example, we can monitor the workload and working conditions, promote social agreement to achieve improvements and intensify supervision of labour inspection. The Balearic Government has successfully promoted measures in this regard and my parliamentary group has recently put forward a proposal in this direction, but the Catalan Government has so far been on the sidelines, as far as I know. We need public policies to recognize the reproductive work and hours women devote to care, focusing on the protection of specific groups, such as older women, immigrants, domestic workers or single mothers at the head of the household. And for that we need to have economic estimates of what this work represents. Do we have them with figures? Because I'd like to know the ones. The Equality Act provides that the Government has to make regular estimates of the economic value of domestic work and the care of children and dependents. When will we get these figures? In this Parliament we have found that you have neither provided for new places of residence nor significantly increased investment in day care so that women can return to the labour market. How is it explained that in the figures that came to explain yesterday in Parliament the headings for women's policies fall from €7.960.000 to €7.926,000? How is it explained that even more women's policies have been cut than they have been cut by 32_per_cent since 2010? I would like to recall that the general budgets of the State, which were presented and which the groups supporting his Government did not even allow to deal with, contained many measures to combat these problems. For example, they extended paternity leave, a measure that would help balance the burden on the care of children now borne by women; increased the dependency allowance by 60_per_cent, and eliminated the pharmaceutical co-op for pensioners. For Catalonia, these budgets meant that 27,000 caregivers would have recovered their social security contributions, that 143,000 people would benefit from the minimum living income and that 12,000 people over fifty and two years old who are unemployed would have recovered their unemployment benefit. They also envisaged an increase in minimum and non-contributory pensions and an increase in the regulatory basis for widowhood pension to 60_per_cent. Behind these figures, Mrs Artadi, there are faces of women who have rights that we have an obligation to guarantee. A government cannot define itself as a feminist, as several representatives of the government have done here several times, if when drawing up a government plan or thinking about budgets it does not prioritize the removal of single-maritime families from poverty or does not promote measures to ensure that women have quality jobs and are not the face of poverty in our society. What will you do about it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.157.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And again, for the reply, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.158.0	Thank you again, Congresswoman. He was talking about children's homes or schools in Bressol and that there was no money, but it seems to me that yesterday both the president and the vice president explained a fact that many days ago the education counselor explained, and it is that in the assumptions of 2019, the ones that you definitely did not want to see, see, see, or talk about after a first meeting, there are 20_million precisely intended for zero-three education, that I am totally in agreement with you that it is one of the precise measures that is needed to re-enter and why we return women to the labor market after having had children; a job, a task of supporting the schools in Bressol that have been made from local entities, from the fact that they are already recovered. For what he does to the Observer of the Igualtat of Genère, July was already presented jointly with the Idescat; therefore, both Mrs. Núria Balada and Mr. Frederic Codina made a presentation this July, together, of the methodology, precisely to calculate what is the index of gender equality of Catalonia. What's this index for? So it is done to, precisely, have better information and plan better what public policies are. An index that has many variables but precisely aimed specifically at six different axes: work, wages, health, training, use of time and ownership of the woman. Therefore, this work is being done, the whole methodology has been taught, as it is; the idea is that this can be known periodically, as it is, what is up to date, and keep the information. From the Department of Labour, which seemed to be saying that they were not performing, it is precisely working in a field of work for women's entrepreneurship; women's enterprise that has more problems than men, also because of concerns of stereotypes, lack of funding, lack of time to pull projects that, when we look at the data, are precisely projects that have a return, not only social, but have a higher economic return: they do better the women they decide to undertake, but they have more problems precisely for all the stereotypes we have. And, therefore, also on this board is a way to help them make this decision and give them more strength in this pocket. What else is being done by the Department of Work, that we agree that it would solve part of the problems that women have? So, look, there's all the equal programs that they have to do with the impact that it has on the wage bracket, that it has to do with the timing of contracts that offer to women and that it has to do with issues of insurance, but also working conditions that make businesses serve. So until now, there was only one register that was voluntary, but the department is leading the creation of the register of equality plans, because this is mandatory, because we can hold all the companies that are obliged to hold it; that they are not all, because, as you know, at the Constitutional Court they have already fallen on us. But what does it do from the department and in particular from the Directorate-General for Equality? So they're doing specific training actions to companies, to the board, but also to the union, so they can advise and actually review, evaluate these equal plans, both those that have the obligation to do it as they don't. There has also been a programme with local authorities, with 153 projects, to facilitate precisely the implementation of equality measures plans that help you precisely ask you to see with working conditions. A new line of subsidies has been made for social entities in the department to promote equal opportunities for women and men in the workplace. Formation has taken place, because, as we have said before, formation is precisely what makes this cultural change that we have to make between all of us, and between all of us, so it can be hard to finish. And with these training plans during 2018, 1,368 people have been formed, who are managers of companies, but also trade union representatives, who have participated in courses, whether face-to-face or online, precisely to encourage these courses to reach more people. All that the Constitutional has fallen on us from the Law of equalness precisely for what it does to labor issues because it is said that we are not competent, therefore, it is applying or will apply definitively to the Public Administration, which is where we have at least competence. And on the parental leave, which you linked us to the general assumptions of the State, surely it is as linked as the minimum interprofessional wage, that it is expected that if the assumptions were not approved it would not be successful and that in the end it could be successful, fortunately. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.159.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the rights of women and gender inequalities]] [[300-00085/12]] The next item on the agenda is the question to the Government about the rights of women and gender inequalities, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. To expose the inquiry, Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.160.0	Well, thank you very much. MPs and MPs, I wanted to start with a personal anecdote. The other day I went to my third daughter's class teacher's meeting, and she explained to me how concerned she was that in a class where there were seven children and eight children, children were almost not participating in class and were completely uprooted. But what was most disturbing was that this teacher did not have the resources to do it, she had not had a training course, since school did not offer resources, training or specialized support, and I had to be the one who sought the resources because she could access it and because we had, among comets, the "luck that I am related to this world and I have these resources, but I would like to know what happens to many children who remain invisible to their schools and their teachers do not have the resources to do it. In fact, they have fixed that most of the schools are the football field that occupies the most space and that is normally monopolized for this, for football. And who plays football? So the kids. How many children are self-discarded from the scientific careers in six years? A 35_per_cent goes to the scientific itinerary and only two_for each_yours are cadres, because this means that children are not used for science, children are letters. 60 percent of women have been forced to feel at some point a ‘do you have the rule? When he disagreed and he's in a bad mood. We live the cosification of women's bodies, in advertising, all the way. We have seen it now with the complaints made about the Mobile; we have heard it in the words of someone who also occupies a place in this room when he spoke about the skills and abilities of some counselor. We live in a heteropatriarchal system. All I have explained to you are examples of structural inequality in children's and children's opportunities, which, from the very young, from the schools of Bressol, from the primary, do not have the same opportunities. We live in a patriarchal society that enables this inequality of gender, where the most difficult expression is male violence, male abuse, but it is not the only one. This structural inequality, this patriarchal culture, is at the root of feelings like La Manada, like that of the Juana Rivas, which explains that Catalonia follows the community that more orders of protection are denied, that more victims are left unpunished. We know that we have unevenly incorporated ourselves into the labour market; we know that there is a horizontal segment that holds the least qualified places for us; the wage bracket is deeper than we lower in the percentages of income; there is a glass floor, and reconciliation only exists at the cost of undermining the economy of women. I picked up posters, I didn't get used to it, but only with the colors you already see from far away: what's the distribution there in the tasks of home care, in the State. The first square is how many redoublings of the day have been asked: in red, the women; in blau, the men; the second, how many excesses to take care of the permissions of the children. Here, as it is, take decisions in pairs. I look who makes the decisions in the case of buying technological devices. Mirin as they share the work of the house: the stronger red, the ones they always do; the clearer red, the ones they usually do. We can't talk about the equality of men and women if we don't distribute the cures and don't put the cures in the center. It's a feminist policy, it's a feminist public policy. And that does not mean the opposite of a male, that there are some who think that I, neither a feminist nor a male, have enough. No, no, Feminist means to believe in equal opportunities for men and women and to be consistent with that. I wanted to ask Mrs Artadi: is the Government of the Government of Catalonia a feminist government? Do you know what a feminist government does? A government that dedicates as a minimum 1_per_cent in a direct match to direct policies of equality and a 5_per_cent in indirect; a government that has analyzed each sector – culture, health, education, work – to detect the needs of women and men and to give a response that compensates for inequality; a government that puts reproductive work and cures at the center; a government that is executing a strategy to fight against the feminization of the poor. Yes, that's what the Barcelona Assembly did. Now I would like to know what the Government of the Government of Catalonia has done as a feminist measure, not a list of measures, which, surely, if the interdepartmental group that provides for the law to function, would not have come with so many papers and perhaps have been able to report to it. Mrs. Artadi told us... she gave us the reason when we asked her about the need to invest and deal with masculinist rapes; she recognized us that there are lack of resources, that there is a lack of territorial equity, coordination. There's been some assumptions, and what's the meaning of everything he told us? In res, absolutely in res. Only a 1_percent of the Generalitat's admissions to finalist policies per serial equality €338_million. Do you know how much we believe and have understood, doing submarines and knocking between the ciphers, because it's very difficult to see it, because we still don't have a gender analysis visit of the assumptions of the Generality of Catalonia? I wouldn't even get to 0.01_per_cent. And that locks in the resources that come from the state pact. They say they open two SIEs and reinforce SIADs. If 'lsha asked in this Parliament, it has been approved, that there are seven to finish the year, to guarantee precisely that all the women of Catalonia have access to these services. So no, with two. And they still ask us for our responsibility to approve assumptions, assumptions that do not complete the resolutions of this Parliament. We don't even talk, do we? , of which we also agreed in this House, in that young man, that there would be a finalist game for masculinist rapes that, oh surprise! It's not there either. It was also approved that the budget of the Català de les Dones Institute returned to recover the financing level of the year 2010, which was 12_millions. This isn't planned for this year either. We follow without any strategic policy of gender equality, we follow without an integral model of approach to masculinist violence, we follow without knowing who are the strategies of transversalization of the Catalan Institute of Donations, the social impact of the Law of Equality, all the reports and mechanisms provided for by the Law and which have not been deployed. We believe that no, until now the Generalitat, the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia is not a feminist government, it is a government that makes specific measures, that tries to give an answer, that yes, that adopts the speech that there is to society, that tries to assimilate... We believe that there is actually a sooner and later in the speeches made by Constellera Artadi, we also appreciate it, because we really believe that there has been an adventure, but it must go a little further, it must be a feminist government of truth. And a feminist government is also making policies of cures, policies in every sense. It is also a regular feminist government for loguers, prohibit outsourcings as called for by the ‘Kellys, repeal the labour reform of the People's Party, repeal the Foreign Law, facilitate family reunifications, let the Open Arms save empty. And that also leads us to think that Mr. Pedro Sánchez's government is not a feminist government either. In matters of feminism, I know it's hard, but the Government of the Generality is a government that doesn't rule, still doesn't rule. Its presuppositionary summary document does not contain the word "feminism" or so alone; only once, and without quantifying, does the struggle against masculinist violins appear. A feminist government recognizes that women are diverse, such as reversal, prioritization, prevention. A feminist government works in the salvation of women, in the co-education, and does not give funding to the concerted schools that do a separate education by gender. It's about shielding public services, reinforcing and reversing the detail. I need to put the cure job down and play at the middle. It may direct taxation to redistribution policies. It can secure public space, identify collections that suffer more oppression and establish corrective measures of this double oppression. It is the women who are migrated, the women who are in restricted freedom, the women who are in prison, the women who work at home and in the cures, the women who encapsulate single-mary families, great suns, women with precarious work. A feminist government has to be ashamed to read headlines saying that the poor have a face as a woman, that she is precarious and with children, and that she opposes it with effective and emerging measures, and above all with an increase in resources. The week you see, March 8th, there's a vague feminist. We also hope to have consent in this Parliament to join us there and claim this feminist space for a second year. We hope that it is not the street that gives lessons to the institutions and that the institutions are still able to be on the street with the women that are mobilized. It's about claiming more and better equality. We can also clearly position ourselves against the parties that threaten the rights we have won; parties that claim to make witch hunts, that claim the names of people who report male rapes, that want to repeal laws that protect us, that extend the false ideology of gender and that want to take the right to decide on our bodies, parties like the PP and Ciutadans, that are the spearhead of Vox in his Croatian against feminism. Can they defend women's rights by pacting and coming to terms and telling them to rule with these parties after April 28th? We don't think so. Women's rights are defended by reviewing legislation that is patriarchal and androcentric, providing real and not symbolic assumptions about women's policies, making the Law of Equality complete in its entirety, shielding the public sector and ruling, lords and lords of the government, ruling in truth, to change this model that precariouss women and condemns them to inequality. We want a future feminist. And we have to start now. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.161.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To answer the word has the adviser of the Presidency, Mrs. Elsa Artadi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.162.0	Well, thank you, Congresswoman. Well, we would have liked it, on the part of the assumptions, and, moreover, when he had intervened on other issues at other times I had asked him that yes, I would have liked it on other occasions, that I had participated in the discussions of the assumptions precisely in order to improve everything that had not improved. That's it. [[The orator does a gesture with the open hand]] But at the last meeting, which was held between members of the government and their political formation, which was that of the divender 25 of gener, it was precisely that a meeting had to be held on male equality and violence in the following week. And it was precisely the day after this meeting was to be held that you broke up the negotiations. And that's what they'll be able to confirm his company, because he confirmed to me the general secretary of my department, which I asked him exactly what it's like... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Clear! But it is we..., you have proposed: « Sectoral meetings are to be held. And the vice president, the secretary general of economics and the secretary general of presidency said: "Perfect; let's do it. They're going to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on In this sense, it is true, and from this we talked about it on other occasions, that the premise is not designed to show all the parties that are dedicated to equality policies. All equality policies were not accompanied by a match either, because there are obligations or there are aspects that are not there. But it's already a transformation that needs to be done. I'm also taking advantage of them to say something else again. The last time I..., I think it was the last time you asked me a question in this Faristol, which was in November, just before World Day against Masclist Violence, I said to him: "We work in these folds. And we find ourselves just before the international day... the Day of the Dona, that we make an inquiry. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We've seen each other... no, no, why am I telling you? Because we have seen each other in many actions that we agree on, we have shared many things, we have spoken when we also had an inquiry made by our parliamentary group, and I know that we have many points in common. The president of the ICD also invited him to come to the Català de los Dones Institute, to you and all, in order to work together in these measures. But I'm not saying it like a toilet, I'm saying it again to give it that we also talk about measures, and we don't just do it in a way... publicly, that we can do it publicly all the time, but come and share the information we have. You tell us: "You still don't have the plan, the new plan of 2019-2022. Before, when I asked our company, I explained why: why we tried to make this plan a platform of consensus with all the entities, with all the experts. And I understand that we have also come to the conclusion that we have... that you give a little time, precisely, to agree on all these measures and that there are measures that do not impose the Administration, but that there are consensual measures in all areas. A plate that if you want to know it with more detail, beyond what has already been exposed last week, of the six axes it has, from education, equity in work and co-responsibility in uses, prevention and eradication of male violence, personal empowerment, visibility and transversality in gender policies, you can work there whenever you want. We agree – and that is why I would like to see our long-standing relationship beyond the Faristol – that there are many aspects that they have to see in the way we approach from different collections, from different backgrounds and from different aspects of life, to this masculistic society that surrounds us all and that impacts us all in one way or another. And that's why one of the main axes we're making from the government, not just from our department, has to do with training. Not only with a gender equity formation plan that the government has promoted in this legislature, which has led especially to three collections. On one side, direction and command line, because this is moved down. In the second term, with the professional circuit of violència masclista. I, the third, with the equality referents of each of the departments and public administrations. But this went beyond what is being promoted by the Catalan Institute of Donations, because they are also concerned with specifics in the Interior, they are concerned with specifics from the Department of Treball, Social Affairs and Families, and they are concerned with specifics from the Department of Justice. Before we spoke to the Beatriz about business. Another measure, in this presentation that has not yet been completed – and I recognise this – of the Law of Equality, has to do with the distinction of business excellence in the matter of equality. Because we all understand that we have to be demanding, that just as we try to be demanding in environmental aspects, in security aspects, we also have to be equal. And in this sense they are working together both the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families as well as the Department of Business and Knowledge, to be able to develop it, to be able to precisely reach all those companies that are not obliged to do so. In the case of women and the field of justice, which previously referred to them, to feelings that we hardly have to see in the last few months, and as in some cases even managed to justify. A fact which seems, therefore, practically impossible, but which has actually passed. From the hand of the Councillor of Justicia, the Catalan Observers of Justicia in Male Violence were created, precisely to analyze the response to the judicial organs, which is where we have a difficult problem of institutional violence; to prison services; to juvenile justice, in alternative criminal measures and in the service of assistance to the victim, precisely with the objective of improving the effectiveness and contributing to the struggle of male violence. It will search, it will investigate with academic methodology to provide conclusions, but above all – above all – it will focus on what is the specific formation on male violence addressed to the staff working in the field of the Administration of Justice. The work being done by the councillor, precisely, foresees that in the next two years one can form one thousand and five hundred professionals in the field of the system of the Administration of Justice, precisely to change attitudes and to change certain effects that we see, that precisely prevent women from reporting male violence, and that makes the transit during the judicial process very complex, very painful, and that, in many cases, we are seeing the denial of removal orders. However, the Department of Justice also promotes a model of criminal execution with a gender perspective. You refer to the actions you are doing in other administrations. In this case, this is an issue that is our competence, and therefore has been included, for years, as gender referents in prison centres, but, moreover, there has been a programme of psycho-educational intervention of women deprived of their liberty in the five centres where we have precisely female populations. Pilot tests have been carried out, also, in prison centers, which are aimed at the entire prison population, precisely to work all that is perspective and gender equity. Special attention has been paid, special attention has been paid to the LGTBI collection, to the prisons, and in this past year, in 2018, it was celebrated, therefore, the First Day of Gender and Prison, which is an approach that is being made again from the department and that now, in this year 19, will be the second day. He made reference, again, to the educational centres. You know perfectly well that the concerts that have already been given cannot be withdrawn, and that the compromise... because we can't do it for her, and because she would be stunned, and so what we want to do is do it right, and that she has all the work she can do. And, therefore, the Councillor's commitment, on behalf of the Government, but also of the two parliamentary groups, precisely, which support the Government, is not to renew concerts to those centres that do not complement the principle of co-education by mediating what is mixed schooling. This is a compromise that we have, in fact, from the beginning of the legislature, that we are compromises that I bring forward, because it is certain that we cannot be influencing and insisting on an inclusive model, on a co-educational model when we normally deal with choices where there are only children or choices where there are only children. To the Department of Interior..., I passed it over to the department, because, of course, I don't know how we would define whether a government is feminist or not, who poses the label and who doesn't, and, therefore, I think it's important to see how each of the departments we have in the Generality is trying to improve actions that are already done, make new ones, precisely with this gender perspective. In the Department of Interior, where the effect of the formation is held..., one of the departments with major incidence, precisely for everything that has to do with the dealing with people, but also to identify and see where there has been male violence, but above all to prevent it... Two seconds remain, I continue after. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.163.0	Thank you, Counselor. The return, now, to the reply, is to the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.164.0	Thank you. Counselor, I think what we have is a bit of a confusion of government functions - opposition group of, now, seven deputies and deputies. That is to say, those who are to govern are you, and we have put forward proposals, measures that we believe to be of fundamental importance in order to be able to talk about assumptions. It was the government that prioritized what we were talking about; never put on the table the subject of male and female rapes and policies. Indeed, it was we who finally had to put it on the table, even though it is not our function to govern, and it was when we proved that, in reality, there was no willingness of the Government to accept or work on our proposals, that we decided that until there were clear numbers we would not talk about it again. But now we have clear numbers! On this subject, we asked for two things. Una, it's the Catalan Institute of Donations. How much money will the Catalan Institute of Donations have for this year? Does he recover the presupposition he had in 2010? No, no, We proposed to create a women's council, which is probably one of the things that helps to believe that it's a feminist government, huh? , to have a council that talks about policies of equality and that fights the masculinist rapes, because, clearly, the Catalan Institute of Donations does not have the resources or the recognition of the other departments to lead these feminist policies. If they believe it, don't give it to them, they'll do a counseling. Follow this government's advice on feminism and LGBTI, for example. But no, this doesn't have enough meaning as to why you have a council with a specific premise, because then, so, we can see how much money is spent on feminist policies, because there's no way, in its premise, to see... For a direct match to direct policies, of a 1_per_cent. This is a super-concrete measure. I'm working on it, but you say we're in action and stuff and we're not talking about it anymore, and I'm still waiting for a first call from your advice to make sure we're talking, beyond this phony. That's not a woman either. Am I the one who has to call the government to tell the government what to do to make feminist policies? I'd say no. What I can do, in my function of controlling the government, is that it is the function of the parliamentary groups, at least the opposition groups, to tell him all that is not done, and all that would be right to do, and they are proposals. All our motions and the proposals we make are proposals. For example, when will the distinction of business excellence in terms of effective equality begin to work? They don't know. We have nothing to do with this. What was the impact of the Law of Equality in these four years? Because we're worse off than we were. Therefore, impact, not very. Do we know why it didn't have an impact? Beyond that. And we're talking about intersectionality. So, you don't see that, in the policies that the Generalitat does, this issue. It's already been named in the previous motion, and I'm sure the CUP companies will, too. The situation of women with precarious employment, who are the measures that you do, when they think include measures related to the equality of men and women in the departures of contract. They can do that too, and it's not. They have the power and the ability to do it, and it's not. We believe that a feminist government is the one that goes from word to word, and that sets assumptions and sets resources. Why don't they increase in the way that special attention centers are needed to care for women? But truth; or so on, not only the two that we know long ago I don't know how long I was planning to do them. We think there's a lot of things they can do. We will make a motion that will be re-proposal, but we believe that the task of governing must be done by you, that this is why you have the majority in this Parliament and that is why you have a government, and that is why you have responsible people in the departments to govern and to make these feminist policies. All we have to do is list all the things that have been done, but we do not get that at any given moment how many resources this year will be allocated to combat policies for male and female rapes and policies to generate and promote equality between men and women. Or, a number, say'muna xifra, and help us to compare with the ones they have previously intended, to see what is actually done. Because it's impossible to see it, it's impossible. One game, we said, a 1_per_cent. A 1_percent of the Generalitat tickets in direct, finalist, finalist policies. I've been looking for concrete things. I don't stand here talking before March 8th because it's March 8th. I sit here and talk because my job is to ask you to be consistent and consistent with the principles of mobilisation on March 8. I'm asking for it, now you're going to do it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.165.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's true that we're government, it's true that we have more deputies, but it's also true that we can't just throw the assumptions away. So that's why the meetings were held, and that's why we're still holding hands so we can do it. About the distinction. He asked about the distinction of excellence. In the plan of government is retrograde, retrograde that will come into force this 2019. So, that's why I was explaining it, it's a work that's advanced, it's advanced in the lines of how it's going to work and how it's going to approach businesses. He started talking to both companies and unions, precisely, so he could do it. He asks us to evaluate the impact of the Law of Equality. The same law of equality foresees that this is done at the end of five years, and therefore is working to be able to do so at this time. Maybe you're right that we didn't get along during this time. I, the first time I went to compare with the Commission of Igualtat, spoke to what was then the spokesman of his group, or president of the group, in Xavier Domènech, at that time we talked to him, but, listen, I think we have to work... I think it's not about, with the themes of equality, thinking about who is government and who is opposition, because we do the work among all, or we make a cultural change among all, or this is not going to go forward. But, well... So, we'll take it back, and I'll do it, and no problem, and I'm sure there'll be a positive response. I ask for the xifra of money destined for masculinist rapes, which should be in the presupposition of 2019. I said it on this same week's day, when we finished doing our internal task too, with other issues of division between the departments, and the estimate we have – and I think it's quite accurate – in masculinist rapes is 37_million euros, and I said it on the press this day, when I came out of government. I'm asking for the ICD's premise for 2019 too, and it's true, it's not the xifra..., it's not a xifra bigger than the one of 2010, but it is a xifra bigger than the one of 2011, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 18, and they're, in the initial assumption, 10.7_millions. It's true, and more so than I've already said – and I've already said it the other time – that we don't have all the honest measures that we have to look at equally in one way and, therefore, we don't have all the work that is done by the Department of Education to see what is done in the matter of equality, and we don't have all the work that is done by the Department of Health, and it's a work that should be done and that we haven't been able to do until now. But, for that reason, I can't give it to you, because we don't have it. I don't know if it's better or worse to have a council of women, or feminisms, or... I don't know, because what it did exactly is to take the ICD to the Presidency to get more cross-cutting, but I don't know if the solution is to take many of the skills that my companies have right now and bring them to a single place. Yes, there is the will that there was before, that I think he was in Social Afers in other legislatures, and that he took it to the Presidency Department precisely to give him this measure of more transversality. Before you, it seems to me, at your first intervention, you have also spoken of more vulnerable or more specific collections, and so, today, it is not the Councillor Jordan, because it seems to me that she is actually in Madrid, and that she is not..., in the Supreme Court, but also from within her sphere – that sometimes she seems to be a lot parked in Parliament, because it seems that no one is asking her questions, no one is asking her questions, and she is always complaining–, too, she has done and is pulling herself forward and will be taking to the government of the week that she sees, precisely, that it is the Council Counsellor of Rural and Maritime Women's Women, to include in the actions also the promotion of rural development, in the same way as the promotion of rural development. Two weeks ago I met with the Association of Rural Women, which I believe is the last association that has been created, or from the last that has been created, from associations of women, precisely because they have a very specific case and have a reality that is different from other sectors, which is also very masculinated. Before you spoke about the ICT sector, which is hyper-masculinized; I was able to go to Mobile only one time the second, and it was horrific, because there were only white men and Asian men, it's the least different thing that there is, and in particular there is very little woman, in some professions, more, that go more, that every time they have a higher economic return and that the little recourse we've managed to do in Britain...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.167.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.168.0	... – I finish – will lead us back, precisely for these new professions that have a great economic return. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.169.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the feminization of the poor]] [[300-00086/12]] The next question to the Government is about the feminization of the poor, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. The honourable Member Natalia Sánchez explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.170.0	Good afternoon. It's important that it's about feminism and it's about women, and more about the celebration of the International Women's Day on March 8, a day that expresses the struggle of millions of women who have nothing but their work as a way of life. Enguany, as last year, summoned the vague feminist general. We understand this vagueness as a means of demonstrating strength and collective response to claim that, before a system that systematically attacks life, we are betting for a feminism to change everything, from low to high. We have been the group of women of the popular classes who have historically kept alive the flame of dignity, the struggle against capitalist, patriarchal and racist exploitation, the one who denies us the right to live a dignified life and a full sovereignty as women, both to the Catalan countries and to the world. The liberation of this system that gives us, exploits us and assassins us will only be possible by fighting for organizations to put life in the center, and thus demands the feminist general vagueness of next March 8, a vagueness that will have as one of its main axes the struggle against the feminization of the poor. It's a vacancy that goes beyond what identifies as a job-hungry, twenty-four hours, by the way, because the participation of women is nuclear in all spheres of life, and the vacancy must also smooth out other jobs and spaces: that of cures, consumption, student and associative life. We conceive of feminism as the total challenge of the social and power relations established in patriarchal capitalism, a capitalism that has a logic of accumulation and privileges and, therefore, needs exclusions and also rapes to consolidate it. Our feminism is also conceived as an intersecting struggle; we understand that people do not only have oppressions as a gender, but we also have to add class, religion, cultural origin, and, therefore, gender identities are also complex and not unique. If we analyze the motives, the causes of this structural inequality, of this exclusion that causes the women to follow the invisible face of the poor, as we speak of the sexual division of labor, as has already been done and as has been done by previous members of Parliament. The sexual division of labor causes all the tasks of the lar and the reproductive and healing tasks that we realize the women, practically in solitary, to have no recognized value, nor economic, neither social, nor institutional, yet to be indispensable tasks to guarantee life. As workers, we also suffer exploitation at work, and even more so if this is associated with the role of caregivers that patriarchal capitalism has devoted to the gifts of popular classes: cleaning, renting, cooking and caring. Women are the ones who have the most part-time contracts, shorter working days, wages up to a 26_per_cent under men, a lesser recognition of work. All this with institutions that are empty of sovereignty, in which the logic of the market prevails over people, who maintain an autonomous system that offends us and that, in order to guarantee us a dignified life, it gives us freedom, dispossessessesses us and precariousness. Women have always suffered structural inequalities, but it is clear that at present the spread of rights and austerity policies that apply to this government means that inequality is much more acute. We have been the women who have suffered the hardest face of the capitalist crisis, I insist: pension details, education, sanitation, non-implementation of the Law of Dependence, regression in social rights, while the State and businesses benefit from all this invisible and indispensable work. The clippings in the public services make the women to consolidate this function that it gave before, stuck with caretakers. If the price of Bressol school is the same as the price of a precarious job, it is obvious that many families sort out that they are left doing the function of cures. It's very likely that if the cures were done, the men would be valued. The value of cures is non-existent, because we are the women who realize them. Labour reforms have had an obvious impact on women. We are in feminized, sexualized and pre-characterized sectors, with low wages, with low qualifications, with low recognition, I insist, with a greater incidence of temporality, party days, contracts to return and part-time, poor salary and, obviously, reduction of contributions, which has consequences on the benefits we have. We also want to talk about male-based violence, and male-based violence, not only on feminicides– which we have not talked about in this plenary, and we have done well – not only, I said, feminicides, which are the most unfortunate expression we know: we want to talk about institutional symbolic rapes, because of urgency and need; for example, the violence that still exists on our bodies, concretely when we talk about abortion, about voluntary interruption of pregnancy. The public health care and family planning services of public health services and the public health system must ensure information and legal advice, medical and psychological to all women, in order to guarantee the exercise of our right to abortion, and the public health service must guarantee a free and secure abortion. Violation of sexual and reproductive rights is a violation of human rights. Adopting a focus on sexual and reproductive rights means that these rights do not only guarantee access to sexual and reproductive health care, but also guarantee the autonomy of women without discrimination, to make our own decisions in everything that corresponds to our sexuality, including reproduction, for which it requires education and information that is true, timely, scientific and without prejudice. These three formulations, recognizable in different international instruments of human rights, from a feminist approach, imply the recognition and exercise of sexual and reproductive rights. We can't hear how some of the public services are led by pregnant women to entities like Pro Vida de Catalunya, who seek to prevent free access to an integral sexual and reproductive salvation for women and other people with the capacity to be pregnant. It is very worrying that since the government of the Generalitat is not only not guaranteeing the right to a free and free abortion, but it is funding organizations that work in a contrary sense; from our point of view, this is a form of institutional violence that violates the rights of women. Counselor, we asked him in the control session, and we still feel deceived, because he claimed that Pro Vida and other fundamentalist entities do not receive any public subsidy. Can you prove it? Let's ask again: entities like Pro Vida, that deny the right of women to their own, receive public subsidies? We believe that it is necessary to investigate the public finances of the speech groups that violate and criminalize the rights of women and LGBTI groups. Public funding for anti-droit organizations is not an ailing fact; we are aware that the government is able to work on this issue, which is a violation, I insist, of the fundamental rights. The Government of the Generality and many other gatherings should give insightful explanations and contrasts about this issue. I'm done. And I'll get the move on to the vague feminist. We have a long feminist history and a run of many March 8 take the street, the plaza, the word, with the purpose of subverting the order of the world and the patriarchal, racist and neoliberal discourse. For this March 8, we call all of us, as our predecessors did, to break the privileges of a patriarchal and capitalist society that we reject in full, because it does not allow us to live with dignity.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.171.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word now the Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.172.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, the Member of the CUP, Mrs Natalia, has given us a global view of the various spheres on which the situation of social reproduction of inequalities is based – I could sum it up in this way – with a feminist, patriarchal perspective, of fighting against patriarchy, because it forms part of the reproduction of these inequalities, and as it is supported by a system that goes further than the system of work, since it goes back to the elements of consumption, the elements of individual and collective rights, and how we work. I think he's given a pretty wide view. He talked about the complexities and the gender identities. I believe that this is also an area in which all of us would have to reflect, because sometimes the vision that distinguishes only for the sake of gender leaves out other elements that are around unequal situations and, which is most worrying, not only unequal situations, but discrimination situations. We are all aware that it is different when we speak of gender inequality if your origin is a migrant; we are all aware that it is no longer only if your origin is a migrant, but if you have a racialized reality; we are all also aware that it is different from the age; we are all aware of how inequalities are reproduced in the labour market, later on, in the system of services after the world of work, and that we see it with such clear figures as non-contributory services, where non-contributory services to women are much higher than men, and it is still another element of reproduction of these inequalities, and we are all aware of the work we respect. And it must be based, in the first place, on a direct work around a reality, which is that the rate of female poverty is higher than the rate of global poverty. We have to work around to overcome this binary view that leaves many other identities to the margin, as you did. We must work with respect to the world of work, because at the end of this world you are supporting much of the rights that you can then exercise as a citizen; you have placed it: wages, treacherous land, glass floor, you have placed temporality, you have placed partiality... It is also one of the clearest elements of how labor precariousness affects, and in a much harder way, women in men's accounts, partiality, and non-volunteer partiality. Because here we have to say very clearly that many times we want to preserve partiality as a will of reconciliation, and it is lied, it is biased not volguished, and it is placed at this point. Risk prevention elements. I think that... I'd like to get in in a moment... that Artadi Counsellor has put it, but I think that one of the most important pending assignments we have as a society is the visualization and dignity of the work in cures. I think a lot of you may have seen that yesterday a 012 announcement came out for the first time, working with women's entities, working in cures for their visualization, to denounce the irregular situations they are giving, because the same women who are in this area can claim their rights and what is also very important, that the people who have them in an irregular situation become aware that this irregular situation is unjustifiable. In short, we hope to be able to bring a government agreement working since 2017 with these collections, which we are agreeing to and which will allow us to take a step more respect for this view and respect many aspects that are required. To begin with, such a simple and simple subject that the situation of administrative irregularity that many have, at the time of being able to regularize their situation, the language courses and the courses needed to show the relationship are not done in a few days when they can go there, because throughout the week they are working at the home of many families in this country, and it is only the end of the week when they can do it, only the diumenge, and we do not have enough to offer the diumenges of these same courses. And it's one of the aspects that places things as simple and as complex as these. I think he's close to making a thought. I believe that this agreement will be a step forward for this vision and for how to work it, just as I believe that we are all aware that there is no way that the ILO agreements will ultimately be ratified that would allow us not to overcome inequality, but to improve the situations of many women working in the world, who work in cures; there has been no way of ratifying the 189 Convention in the Congress, and it is a clear element that we should achieve. Generalist language training actions; knowledge of Catalan society – here we have the problem of timetables, I have already put them there –; specialized trainings, which we have already begun to realize, in the use of clean toxins that are found at home and that are harmful for salvation. Then there is another element – and I put them there – and it is one that we are working together, because it is very complex to be able to solve, which is how the Labour Inspectorate can act in these realities. Here's a key aspect, which is that the work center is private and, as you know, in this country you can't enter a particular place without a court order, with everything you suppose, and it's a right, but that makes the ability of the Labour Inspectorate to act very low in this area. We are working together with the collection to see how we can encourage this performance element of the Labour Inspectorate. But in the end here the key issue is the encouragement of formal and dignified contracting, which is the solution to be made. And it is the key solution that would enable us to get out of the submerged economy, to get out of precarious situations a large collection of women, the majority of migrant origin, who are in this situation, and that would also, at times, overcome another vulnerability, which is their administrative situation. You have also placed a concrete element, which you asked me, which is the financing of entities that are in the exercise of guaranteeing the right to decide the woman about her body. I answered it in the plenary, and what I answered was that we don't finance any action that could be against this right to decide on the woman. And from your question, but earlier on, we're taking a look at whether in some area of competition they've come forward and won, on this right, to review very clearly that they're not doing any kind of action – because in the project they haven't presented it – that they can make a move against the right to decide on the woman's property. And we're very clear, it can't be – it can't be. We cannot discriminate ideologically against an entity, we like it more or less, we have this limitation, but what we do have very clear is that we will not allow any type of action to be put in doubt by this right to decide on the woman's own, and we will continue to do so and review it very clearly in any area. It has put some more aspects on the value of the cures, which we have not talked about; on the benefits; on the financing... It has told me that the vagueness goes much further than a vagueness of work, but it is a vagueness of the cures, of consumption, of the 8th of March; of the sexual division of work. I do believe that I would also be well placed to place an element, which, at least, we have made this effort, and I believe that it is positive, aware that we have many challenges to address, we have closed the year with an increase of 45_percent of the actions of the Labour Inspectorate respect for gender discrimination. As we are aware, we need to grow even more. But this will be the key, just like the will that Artadi also explained earlier, to convert the Register of Business Equality Plans into a mandatory registry. Because they can't go giving answer only by good will. There has to be a requirement of the Register of Equality Plans, with the limitations they give us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.173.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.174.0	...state laws, but we will. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.175.0	Thank you, Counselor. The reply is made again by Mrs Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.176.0	Thank you, counselor, for your answers. Certainly, and quite often in our interventions, right? , what we do is a criticism of the system, but not as if it were something, I don't know, as a natural disaster that we are given, but that before this capitalist system we can do various things, if it can be an ally and it can be an ally and an advantaged student, as we have said many times, of austerity policies and, therefore, to hold out in public services that have direct consequences on the lives of women– and I have given some example– or not to do so. Therefore, I have not made an exposition in which I make a description of the curses of capitalism, but what we do is a critique of how its government is, in this question, and in many others, what it does is of ally. And they are not at the height of real needs and consequences... which is nothing but the crisis, but capitalism in the state itself has produced these consequences that they have had on women. Other examples: today we have also..., once again we have talked about tourism, right? And when we talk about this alliance, we talk about the fact that if in the public policies that you push in the matter of tourism, for example, the working conditions of the Kellys collection are not regulated, what they are doing is being a good student of this saving capitalism, right? They are not catastrophic and supernatural questions, they are material questions. And you and the government are allies. On the question of the commission that has also announced Councilwoman Artadi, the study commission, isn't it? I don't know, it wasn't clear to me what the shape was. And that he also announced, didn't he? That there's a 012 announcement to raise awareness... well. We also want to know how we pass from this visualization, that if awareness can be a first step to dignify and regularize the work unrecognized and obviously violates the fundamental rights of the workers of the world..., as we move from this visualization to a real transformation. We know that there are complexities and difficulties because inspection can enter the streets to intervene on these violations, but we want to go a little further there, not only announced at 012, that they see, yes, but we want a move from visualization to transformation. You've also commented on this 45_per_cent more cases, haven't you? , which has increased Inspection of Treball in cases by question of gender, discriminations by questions of gender in the field of work..., ask him: how many were there before? How many cases are there? ; who is the realization of these data that he gave us. Finally also a question we ask you, a petition, once more..., we want to know what will be the position of this counselor when you walked them on March 8th using their right to pick up information. Ask the entire government, in fact, if we are to see the same repression, the same rape of Mossos d'Esquadra, as we saw last week's general vacancy. Before this repressive reality of Mossos d'Esquadra, will the Councillor of Treball come out to defend the phone bill of information, this phone bill that emanates from the vague right? We're asking him concretely. It is more, today there are still feminists, vaguists, than the result of the actions of the protest and demonstration right of March 8, the wave of March 8 of last year, still today they have complaints and they have, moreover, the Government of the Generalitat as a particular accusation, the companies of Sant Cugat. What are they going to do before that? It can't be..., can't give support to a vague and now repress it. We saw it last week and we wait and wish we didn't see it the week you see it. We have also, in concrete terms, asked a lot of times, the need to regulate a minimum wage of EUR 1,200; a better number of conditions, we have already talked about, of the workers of the land; to combat the wage gap – what is the government doing in this sense? – an increase of better permits for care of people. Also that we recover immediately the articles in labor matter of the Law of Catalan equality suspended for the Constitutional Court; a reduction of the university taxes, which also has to see with these questions; start a plan of struggle against the forms of structural and system violence that do not allow the material conditions of emancipation of the women. We could also talk, and we would do so with much more detail in the motion following this inquiry, about the right indispensable to housing. Today and in fact the fruit of a previous youth we had seen a study in which obviously access to housing was limited on the part of women, with the consequence that this has to be possible victims of male violence. Well, we appreciate your answer, but we want you to give us a little more than you're doing from your department to fight the feminization of the poor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.177.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally you have now the word, to close, the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.178.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Counselor, counselors... Miri, let's go by order and try not to leave me anything. First of all, they ask him a question, which we can do later, and it's that he calmly explains to me, because he's not conscious, and so I say, of this situation that he explained to me that the Government of the Generality is accused of vagustes on March 8th of last year. No problem, you know we're available, we talk about it and we'll see a little bit of this situation, because I wasn't aware of it and we should be able to do it. No problem. That's for principle. I was wondering about the package of support measures for people working in cures that we have been working since the Government of the Generality. Since 2017, we have been carrying a working group created with entities representing the migrant women who work as healers, with the Secretary of Equality, Migration and Citizenship and the Directorates-General of Labour Relations and Labour Inspection; we are working together, which we hope will soon be able to make public, which is a government agreement and a whole series of measures linked to support for people who work with cures. Part of this work that we've done together is the announcement of 012, but it's part of it. And it's a part that's also necessary, that's society's awareness. Basically because it is an environment where the same workers and find that they are absolutely invisible. And in part, however, it is part of other measures that we incorporate into this governance agreement. Right now we've just closed it down, they're reviewing it; as we've worked together, they're just reviewing these entities, and when we've just reviewed it, we'll take it to the government itself. Concrete actions, some already initiated? What I said to them: generalist language training actions, because they consider that the best way of social inclusion is the learning of language, because they consider that they have less opportunities if they do not have the knowledge of the Catalan society; also in formation, the specialized formations that they give in the use of clean products that are found at home and that are harmful to health; the work that we are doing together to see how we can drive a specific campaign of work inspection... I which is so honest: the situation is one of the difficulties that we have, and that we have located in this working group. We will also take new actions, apart from this communication campaign, that what they claim is not only awareness-raising, but to encourage formal and dignified contracting; the better of the training offer of people working there, because one of their major concerns is all the question of professional qualifications in this area of the sector, and we are working with them around it. And then one aspect that is key and also the situation, which is how to finally achieve that it is ratified by the 189th Convention and the 201st Recommendation of the ILO, which refer to the working people of the world. Other concrete actions, clear examples? So the actions around training that we have done to all SOC workers around the attention to women who have suffered from male violence; the specific programs that we have opened around this situation, such as the Location program, monitoring and insertion and occupational support to social inclusion; apart from this internal training of equal opportunity, the stimulation of the participation of unoccupied job seekers; the better around the activity rate... Other items. I was wondering about the inspection. I can tell you: in 2018 the number of female inspectors on gender discrimination was 393. I can say it in a very concrete way. What have they basically focused on? In everything that is the subject of the sexual assignment protocols to companies, because it is given and must be controlled, and many women have once left their place of work because they have had situations of sexual assignment; another is discrimination by reason of sex in access to employment; another, when there has been sexist language, because there are offers of work with sexist language, and in this we also act, or on working conditions, and we will continue to act around all areas in which we can improve the situation. The other element, and if the President allows me three_seconds, is the difficulties of public services. We are aware, we are aware that it is a way of fighting against the situation of discrimination...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.179.0	You're out of here, Mr. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.180.0	...and we're fighting and we're still fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.181.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about trilingualism in education]] [[300-00087/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the order of the day, the fourteenth, which is the question to the Government on trilingualism in education, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose the inquiry, has the word the deputy Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.182.0	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillors. First of all, I would like to start with a preview, and I would like to express my strongest rejection of the fact that the Catalans continue to pay the salary to Mr Toni Albà, who is dedicated to pouring macho and homophobic insults on social networks repeatedly. It can't be that TV3, with the money of all Catalans, continues to hire producers who work with people like that. [[Greetings.]] And I also take this opportunity to condemn the macho insinuations that Mr. Pujol has made against my partner, Mrs. Inés Arrimadas. Look, I have been a feminist my whole life; I do not ask others to be, but at least I ask that women be respected in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] Well, now we're going to the interpellation. Mr. Counsellor, a year later I still do not have the language projects of the centre, as would be your obligation. You gave us three thousand links for us to look for. I guess it was thought we weren't going to look for them. Normally, I understand; you are surrounded by vague people who close Parliament every two by three, how you would imagine that citizens' deputies were going to spend so many hours doing that job. Well, he was wrong, we did, we searched the three-thousand links you gave us, and we found 659 language center projects, which are the ones we've analyzed. If we take into account that for PISA they are analyzed, fifty_and two centers are evaluated, our analysis of 659 linguistic center projects gives us a more than representative and more than significant sample of how language teaching works here in Catalonia. By the way, I would like to thank all my colleagues in the Committee on Education for all the hours they have spent searching for and analysing the language projects at the centre, because without them this work would not have been possible. [[Greetings.]] Let's go to objective data now, and let's start with Spanish. I know that then you will tell me that it is not a matter of hours and that it is not a matter of subjects, because in Catalonia everyone comes out with an exquisite level of Spanish from the schools. Well, not everyone around the world; the high offices of the Department of Education, those you put to your finger by charging eighty_000_euros, those not, because we have for example the one who was responsible for the Territorial Servants of the Baix Llobregat who sent a letter with letterhead and seal of the Department of Education and on one page had eight spelling faults, not to mention their serious writing and scoring problems. What do I say, Mr. Counsellor, with these millions of Catalans with an excellent level of Spanish their department hires for eighty_ thousand_euros a person who, in an official letter, does not in a tweet – eh? –, in an official letter, with stamp and letterhead of the department, does eight spelling errors? It seems a little strange to me, because, of course, as you say that from the Catalan school everyone comes out with such a good level of Spanish... That, listen, it has a lot of merit, because considering that in Catalonia there are zero hours of Spanish in childhood education, two in primary school and three in secondary school, I demand from this rostrum that the salary of all Spanish-speaking teachers in Catalonia be multiplied by four. Man, that's that they have a merit, that with two or three hours a week they do the same as the rest with twenty-eight. Let's raise the salary to the Spanish-speaking teachers of Catalonia! [[Greetings.]] Because that's what we have in Catalonia: all the subjects in Catalan with very few exceptions. See, of the 659 language projects of the center analyzed, only in twenty-two give some subject in Spanish. We're talking 6_per_cent. And do you know what subjects they give? No, you don't, because you haven't studied the language projects at the center, but I'm going to tell you that I have. Dan: one, mathematics; three, social and natural sciences, and the others, therefore, religion, plastic, music, physical education, which, listen, must border the imperatives, because they will already explain to me what other grammatical constructions we see in physical education. Because, look, despite the mantra that the Catalan school is a model of success, the reality is very different, and we already have scientific evidence. We have three studies that show that Spanish speakers are harmed by the Catalan education system. And I don't say it; they say it, I insist, up to three studies. And it is logical, because more than half of Catalans are being denied the right to study in the mother tongue, which is a right recognized by UNESCO and UNICEF. But it is that, in fact, it recognizes it until the Law of Linguistic Policy of Catalonia. I will read to you Article 21(2): "The children have right to the first teaching in the usual language, this is the català or the castle. The Administration must guarantee this right and put in the necessary means to do so. Counselor, why do you not fulfill your obligation? Why not comply with the Language Policy Act of the Generalitat de Catalunya? Because to know if students speak Catalan or Spanish in their homes you have to ask what on the registration sheet, and you don't. Why not? What is happening in Catalonia is very serious: more than half of Catalans are being denied the ability to study in their mother tongue. Which is very curious, what has happened with the concept mother tongue in Catalonia: thirty years vetoed, the concept mother tongue could not be used. You said he was very old-fashioned. Listen, your own boss, Mr. Oriol Junqueras, goes to trial and claims it for him, the use of the mother tongue, and the same, the rest of the defendants. For example, Mr Rull said that – I quote – "The right to use the mother tongue is fundamental. Hey, I agree with Mr. Rull. Especially in school and especially in first education. And Mr. Sánchez said that he had the same right as any citizen to use his mother tongue. Well, I would like to remind all those separatist politicians who now claim for them the mother tongue that their parties have been denying that right to all Spanish-speaking students for thirty years. [[Greetings.]] And, look, Mr. Counsellor, what do you think, that your colleagues claim for them a right that you deny Catalan students? I will also quote Mr Forn's words, because they were very interesting: "I speak, I express myself in both languages, but I have more fluidity speaking in Catalan. Well, hey, this thing that happens to Mr. Forn is exactly the same thing that happens to Spanish-speaking students. And it's not that I say it, that they say it up to three reports. I'm going to quote one of the Jaume Bofill Foundation, little suspect of being a citizen: "It may be considered the fact that, in Catalonia, unlike other countries with a high presence of bilingual alumni, it is not possible to sort out the language of the PISA questions. This circumstance could explain, in part, the lower scores of the student speaking castle at home. Listen, why do separatist politicians claim the use of the mother tongue for them but insult those we ask to attend school? Why do separatist politicians claim to use the mother tongue but force families to go to court if they want it for schools? Why do separatist politicians claim their mother tongue but harass families who ask for it for their children in schools? Counselor, I hope you will answer me, because what we have seen these days is truly the height of cynicism. And let's go now with English, which also fabric. According to the linguistic projects analyzed, 23_per_cent of the centers do a subject in English, 13_per_cent, two, and 4_per_cent, three. And do you know what they teach most? Plastic. Catalonia is the only autonomous community that does not provide data on bilingual centres. Let's see what happens to the rest of the autonomous communities that do. First, we have Asturias, with 52_per_cent of the Spanish-English bilingual primary schools, and 34_per_cent of the secondary schools. Then we have Castilla y León y Castilla - La Mancha with very similar percentages. And fourthly, Madrid, with 44_per_cent of primary schools and 28_per_cent of bilingual secondary schools. And, look, Andalusia, which ranks ninth in the ranking; in the Diario de Sevilla we find this headline: « Only 40_per_cent of public centers are bilingual. To the Sevillians, 40_per_cent of the public centers seem little, for it goes that if they came to Catalonia that there is nothing..., I don't know what they would say. Counselor, why don't you give official data unlike the rest of the autonomous communities? Why is it embarrassing to recognize that there is practically no such thing? Look, the nationalists, with their obsessions, what they have managed to achieve is to leave Catalonia at the tail of the teaching of English, because that is nationalism and not anything else: look at yourself the navel and look at the past instead of looking at the present and the future, which is what citizens do. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.183.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, the education advisor, Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.184.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Sierra... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, it's not irony. The whole thing you've been working on today – the whole thing you've been working on today – is that it's a lot that forms part of a book of style that I fully understand that it's a book of style that you've been working on; it's a lot, for example, of raising your voice unnecessarily; it's a lot of less than vague, for example, unnecessary; it's a lot that you didn't use the two hours that we were talking about you and I, with a fellow member of your parliamentary group, to yours from the department of these issues, that we had a very interesting conversation; a very interesting conversation that I think more than anything else was..., that gave fruit. I can't answer all his questions today; I can't answer them, because it's not a question of ideas, it's a question of gestures – it's a question of gestures – and in the question of gestures, I can tell him that I have no interest in entering them. I don't have an interest in screaming, I don't have an interest in sneaking in and I don't have an interest in crawling in. I said to him, at that meeting that we had, calmly, where we were talking about many things, where they did not let go completely abruptly, where we felt conversations about the side of the gap, where I was about to say that we were quiet, but ours should not feel it; there I told him that you have a language model – that I respect – and that we have another one, and that our language model at school is a cross-sectional and majority model in this Parliament. It's a majority in this Parliament. And that these two linguistic models, which are very different, correspond to different ideologies, that respect, but that while the ideology corresponds to our linguistic model – which, I insist, is cross-cutting and not partisan, because it is of many parties – is the majority of this chamber, it is what we would bring forward. And that's it. Then, from here, we can have a lot of discussions. For example, the concept of mother tongue, which you and I discussed extensively. Mother tongue, own language, family language, first language, Aboriginal language and indigenous language: these are the various concepts that UNESCO serves; not just mother tongue, it serves all of these. The Mother Language Day is created by UNESCO precisely on the basis of a petition from the Government of Bangladesh to claim Bengali. Clearly, when I say that I don't want to talk about mother tongue, I don't want to talk about mother tongue because I don't like the heteropatriarchal concept, but also because I don't like the concept that makes Unesco serve, from the Aboriginal world and the colonizer world, and it seems to me that I don't care and you don't like the language debate in Catalonia on the level of indigenous, Aboriginal, colonizer. You're the ones who don't want it, right? Me neither, huh? Me neither. But more than that, if you take our company's judgment back, there's one thing that's obvious, and that just centered the whole debate. There are two courts in Madrid, media, there are two, these days. They've agreed. In one, witnesses are forbidden to speak Catalan; witnesses, eh? Isha is forbidden to speak Catalan. And in the other, to one witness, he was allowed to speak in Catalan. Do you know what a difference there is? He is forbidden to be a citizen of Spain and has been allowed to be a citizen of Spain. Therefore, it is clear that the subject is not language. It is clear that the issue is not language, because if it were language, or if it allowed the two witnesses or if it was forbidden the two witnesses. Here we are talking about linguistic rights, citizenship, and constitutionality, too. And I heard Mr. Married today and I heard Mr. Rivera go back to Mr. Rivera – Mr. Rivera, and I must confess that Mr. Rivera has not been as radical as Mr. Married in his statements – that they think they are changing the language models at school. That's unconstitutional. If you did the Madrid government, I mean, huh? It's not the government of the generality. That they think they're doing it from the Madrid government. That's unconstitutional. It is against the Constitution, against the Statute of autonomy and against various feelings of the Constitution. And they said so. Why? Because we keep talking about ideology, because we keep talking about ideology. Then, from here on out, I could now also quote a lot of reports that tell the contrary of the reports that you can quote. Mostly there are more reports that are in favour of the thesis, of our linguistic model thesis than of the other reports. Reports are not important to you. I mean, there's no reason for him to have 30 reports in favor of him having four. Simply, we'll be back to being an ideological theme. Reports against linguistic immersion? So, for example, of Convivència Civil Catalana. Reports in favor of linguistic immersion? The Language Platform. Reports against Catalan linguistic immersion? Head published to foreigner. Reports in favor of linguistic immersion in Catalonia? A few published abroad, if we go looking, perhaps, for an objective element that has no ideology. But I say it, and I say it again: our linguistic model, which is variable from childhood, where I can no longer accept the literality that is zero hours of Spanish language because it is zero hours of Catalan language, because childhood is not language. So, let's just say, it's here. Since it's not language, it gets zero Catalan and zero Castilian, and, therefore, it's already there. But from here, the reality of our language model at schools is very variable, and it's very different, and it's very different. And that our language model is a model that, in addition, has a motivation, which is not to segregate by language, which is our motivation: not to segregate by language. That's why we don't ask the family language or the family languages at pre-registration, because it's information we have from the father and the cents, which, therefore, if we care about it, but we don't want to use it to segregate for language reasons. The country decided not to segregate the school by language motius. Parliament has decided, and has decided to re-legislative legislature, not to segregate for language reasons. And we continue with the clear, firm and round posture of not segregating by language. On the contrary, we are in the position to ‘dissegregate, for other reasons, the school. Are there other language models in the State and Europe that have chosen to segregate for language reasons? Yeah. Yeah. But I, in any case, forgive you, huh? , very modestly, I recommend an article by Pablo Fernández Vázquez, who is a person hidden in Madrid and who is a professor at the University of Pittsburgh, which is said « Language policy in Catalonia, a comparative reflection, which is strong well, is written by Pittsburgh for a teacher in Madrid, and a summary is published in the OK Diario, – alas, I do not read this – is published in Eldiario. It is, that I read it, a couple or three days ago, that it is an outward and objective vision that seems to me to make things quite clear. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.185.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply round has now the word, again, the questioner.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.186.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, he hasn't answered any of the questions I asked him. I have devoted myself to giving data, and the excuse of a bad payer that he has given not to answer me any data, because then he has been ten_minutes here long, is that he had said it very loudly. Well, now I'm going to talk very low, see if I'm lucky and answer some questions, because I'm going to keep giving data. Because since the department refuses to give data, which is one of the questions that hasn't answered me, why doesn't it give data from bilingual centers, as the rest of the autonomous communities do? I'm gonna tell him low, see if he answers me like that, okay? Because I'm very interested in this question. I was telling you that since you refuse to give data on bilingual centres in English, we have made an approximation from the 659 linguistic projects analyzed, and although it is a little bit accepting « octopus as « companion animal, consider bilingual centre those who give three subjects in English, as is the most similar we have, is what we have done. And if this data I'm going to give you doesn't seem right, it will seem to me very good decision when you give yours and we can compare them. Look, the biggest evidence that this is a failure is that we can't even say how many bilingual centers there are, and with this analysis we've done would not even reach 5_per_cent. Not even 5_per_cent of centers give three subjects in English. And the biggest proof of the failure of English teaching here in Catalonia is that this Parliament had to approve a moratorium because university students this year had to have a B2 level of English to be able to believe themselves, and we had to approve the moratorium at the insistence of principals and students because we were told by the principals: "Hey, it's that more than half of university students can't believe a B2 level of English. Well, if more than half of Catalan university students don't have a B2 level of English, I don't even tell them about high school. It's just that the rectors actually said that the problem is that they came from high school with a lousy English base. And do you know who the big losers are that the Catalan public school doesn't give a good level of English? That I don't say, huh? , said the Rectors of Catalonia. For people who have no money, because those who have money can go to real bilingual centers, can go to make stays abroad or can pay private schools. That's segregating because of language. That's real segregation. And we can see that its success model, which actually has the parliamentary majority, which does not have the social majority, accepts on the one hand the Spanish-speaking people and on the other hand the people with less recourse. Let's get on with the objective data. You, not today, but many other times, and your colleagues say "no, no, it is that this of the trilingualism you ask, this is outdated, man; if in Catalonia the school is multilingual. Well, we're going to objective data, and this time it's not our approximations but data that you gave me when I asked you about the different languages. From primary, he said to me: "The foreign languages of the curriculum are divided. Translated: English and a little bit of French, German and Italian, little thing, huh? Man, this doesn't turn Catalan school into a multilingual school. This is what they've been doing in Spain for a lot of years. And let's go to high school and see what he said to me: "In some centers they teach Portuguese, Arabic and Chinese as optional assignments. Man, « some centers... will be with me that that is not a very concrete answer. I don't know if there are many, if there are few, I can't do statistics. But then, in that same answer, it specifies that, of centers that give as an optional Chinese, there are – double drums – nothing more and nothing less than three centers. Three centers of three thousand, 0.1 percent of the centers. Man, with a 0.1_per_cent of the centers we're not going to talk about multilingual school. Why have you not given me information about Portuguese and Arabic? Why are they even worse than the Chinese? Can you give them to me now? Look, I'm going to ask you low: can you give me details of which languages you speak, huh? And, of course, everything that is not in the education system cannot be counted as such, but you have so much face that you take advantage of the extracurriculars to say that the Catalan school is multilingual. Well, let's go to official data. According to his answer, there are extracurricular classes of Ukrainian, Amazigh, Arabic, Chinese and Portuguese, in a total of twenty-eight public centers, fourteen concerted schools and two adult schools. This is a 1.4_per_cent of the total, that even counting extracurriculars can say that the Catalan school is multilingual. And they have the face to mount an act, to leave in writing that the Catalan school is multilingual, when not even counting the extracurriculars arrive at 2_per_cent of the centers, and on top of it the business was fatal because he was angry with his own. I mean, they tell a lie, they leave it in writing, and they get mad at you. What a business, Mr. Counselor. Look, in Catalonia more than half of the students cannot study in their mother tongue, we are at the tail of all Spain in the teaching of English, and on top of that they have the character of saying that the Catalan school is multilingual, when not counting the extracurricular girls reach 2_per_cent. Mr Councillor, abandon this monolingual system once and for all, support the three vehicular languages and, above all, stop sacrificing students on the altar of nationalism. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.187.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, he has the word for the final reply to the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.188.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I can assure you that an agnostic like me will never find him at the head of the altar, neither behind nor before. But, in any case, I don't think I'm going to be on the subject of creeds in every school either. Let's go back to it, huh? Let's go back to it. If a model that they support, with concrete but not structural discrepancies, Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana, the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, the commons and the CUP is a model that does not represent the majority of Catalan society, listen, I don't know, eh? Which Catalan society do you think exists? – which Catalan society do you think exists? There is a very different Catalan society, of which you are a politically important part, but you and the PP do not represent the majority of Catalan society today, do not represent it. It's here. Therefore, the language model of the Catalan school is supported by a number of political forces representing the majority of Catalan society, which is very diverse, very different and which in a few things agrees, but in this model, structurally agrees. From here, now I... Certainly, the volume is not all, and you, who is a linguist, you know, the volume is not all – it is not all. Now... that I won't tell you that you have a lot of face, because it doesn't form part of my language, nor will I tell you that you say lies, because it doesn't form part of my language, but I could say it, because I say it's out of the question – say it's out of the question – now I could tell you that 100_per_cent of Catalan schools are bilingual because in 100_per_cent of Catalan schools is taught Catalan and castella, right? It's here. I said: "How many Catalan schools are bilingual? The cent_per_cent. But – but – if you're telling me how many are trilingual, or how many are tetralingual, or how many are pentalingual, then it's true what you said: "There are certainly not many schools where Portuguese is taught. There aren't many of them. The offer is, but there aren't many. And we're working with Portugal's county because there's more – there's more. But, listen, multilingualism, which we are working on from a project that is said to be Gep and that today is at these times at a large majority of institutes and the course that will be there is at all, is a model that does not focus on something that is often obsessed, that is so much per cent – that does not focus on something that is often obsessed, that is so much per cent. Because we are not as much interested as we are in studying our students, but as soon as they finish it, they are competitive..., they are what the European Union asks of us, competent in the two official languages, they have a competence in a third and, if possible, in a fourth language. And this is achieved with so many percent differences in different places, because we have a different reality. And, look, as I already know – I know – that report that you also have to see with gestures, you also have to see with a look at interrupting, you also have to see with teaching drawings, I tell you again what I said to you: if you want us to talk about it in depth, then, deeply, you can come back to the department and we can be two hours more talking about it, but here, with the vague, "shady, " faces and lies we will keep the debate as you have kept it today, so we won't hear each other at all. And we, in any case, defend what we defend: a language model that is widely supported by a large political majority representing a large majority of our society. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.189.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about its communicative strategy]] [[300-00088/12]] We now turn to the fifteenth of the order of the day, which is the inquiry to the Government on the communicative strategy, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. And you have the word to expose the question to Congressman Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.190.0	Well, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament..., Counselor, I come back here to make a precise inquiry addressing you, as I did another month ago, and in principle we should not talk about what is one of the main battle horses of the communicative strategy of the Government, which is precisely the public communication media of Catalonia. But unfortunately in later times TV3 has us accustomed to giving us news that logically generate scandal, and I believe that in this case and all a widespread enough scandal, which has been shared by many different ideological spectrums. Apparently, the government's communicative strategy has fundamentally different axes, but unfortunately a common denominator, which is the shameless claim to expel more than half the Catalans from Catalans and to speak ill of Spain and to attempt to denigrate the image of our democracy. Obviously, of these things we will talk about, of the rest of the aspects of this communicative strategy, but I believe that the fact of speaking today of what was the last shameful episode of public television in Catalonia, which has been the grossly disgusting masculinist insults of a regular TV worker3, which is Mr Toni Albà, who recently said a few words that I refuse to reproduce in his parliamentary office because they seem to me to be absolutely abject. I'd be interested, ma'am, in advising you, and I'm asking you to be brave and to answer the question that I'm going to ask you further. TV3's response has already been met, through a generic and essentially self-exculpatory communication, saying that Toni Albà is not TV3's collaborator, which even the Catalonian Journalist Union has already denied, because they have already explained to us that TV3's style book applies also to the collaborators who are in the condition that Toni Albà is with TV3; for sure, he lies that he appoints the Catalonian Journalist Union that has repeated enough Tanuria Llorach, president of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, as director of TV3 to the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation's Performance Control Commission. My question is very clear, madame will advise, it is the first that I will do it..., I will ask you more or less three, but in any case the first one is: you believe that someone who has said what Toni Albà said, who has uttered disgusting masculist and homophobic insults against various leaders of constitutionalist parties in Catalonia, not only against Mrs. Arrimadas, the president of my group, who is certainly the first woman to win Catalan elections and who has done so competing with a follow-up of men, and I believe that her merit as a woman is indisputable..., you believe that she is reasonable, is right and agrees, in short, that someone with Toni Albà continues to work essentially on TV3, that TV does not continue to communicate with her? That's the first question. And I'd ask you, Counselor, because I don't think it's that complicated, a clear and compelling answer. Because, if I'm not mistaken, and keep'm wrong, you haven't made any sense... Since we've talked a lot about feminism and defending equality and the need that we have as a society to continue advancing in the recognition of equal rights between men and women, I think it would be interesting for you, as counsel, to give us your opinion in this sense. I follow TV3, with another aspect that also seems to me to have been particularly worrying in the last few weeks, that has been the coverage that TV3, both TV3 and Catalunya Radio have given, to the judgment of the authors of the coup to the democracy that we suffered the Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards the year 2017. From the first day of the trial, TV3_has become a transmission correctness of the defense's arguments, abandoning any claim of truth or equanimity. They present the unpunished trial as a political trial and the accused, as innocent victims of an oppressive state, systematically concealing, for example, the opinion of the European Commission, the vice president of which a few days ago said: "For us it is not a political issue, the Spanish judicial system is one of the most independent of Europe. Response of the European Commission to the claim of TV3 and the Government of the Generalitat to present the trial as a political persecution. But the European Commission's opinion is not the most worrying that TV3 silences these days; the most worrying of the TV3 silences of these days is precisely the way they keep quiet, as they say absolutely nothing about the anguish, the pain, that millions of Catalans went through when we saw the excesses of the policies that today are at the banquet of the accused, as they overturned our rights, as they tried to liquidate our cohabitation march, as they tried to liquidate the Spanish State and Constitution from the Parliament of Catalonia, which logically generated a great suffering to many citizens of Catalonia. And that TV3 doesn't say anything. What they do is they publish reports about life and goodness, bonds and qualities, human virtues – certainly, in information programs – of some of the cases, for example, Mr Oriol Junqueras. Maybe for you this is the most normal, because I understand that for you, and it's legitimate to think so, these gentlemen are beautiful people, blissful people to whom we all have to idolize. But no, ladies and gentlemen, these gentlemen, who will obviously say whether they are guilty or not in criminal terms will be the courts, as it could not be in any other way, and from our formation, from our parliamentary group, we will respect and abide by any judicial sentence, whether it is, whether it is absolutity or a conviction, or whether it is a sign of it, what we have made clear is that the lords who today belong to the bench of the accused will be or will not be legally guilty, criminally, but what we have clearly is that from a moral point of view they are guilty of having divided the Catalan society, of having broken families and of having created a climate of crisis and rape in Catalonia that we have never seen in democracy in Catalonia. So... [[Greetings.]] TV3_has left in an absolute, unpunished way, for the accused, and what has generated, in the end, is a clear asymmetry between the treatment that gives Catalans who are separatists and who are not separatists. And I remind you, Mrs Artadi, that the public media in Catalonia pay exactly the same to the citizens of Catalonia that we are constitutionalists and defend the unit of Spain as those who defend the opposite. Beyond that, I believe that there are other aspects of the Government's communication that need to be dealt with, and there were those that in principle were to be the center, the spring of the bone of my intervention today, which is above all..., linking it precisely with this distorted vision that give the public media of Catalan reality, we can also look, for example, at the Government's Twitter account, which has things as inverse and as unfair as the fact that October 27, 2018 was commemorated as a great ephemeral the consummation of the day to democracy with the spectral declaration of the year 2017. I insist on giving him before, he will advise: do you think it is normal that official government accounts are propaganda of an illegality that caused a huge patience to an important part of Catalan society? On the other hand, the Government continues to spend large amounts of public money on the international promotion of separatism, insisting on it, not of Catalonia, nor of the material interests of Catalonia or of Catalan culture, but of separatism; they try to denigrate the image of Spain detracting from the resources of the citizens of Catalonia without any rigour or any objectivity. I remind you, Madam Counselor, that you have given evidence that you could perfectly contrast that you believe Spain to be one of the world's main democracies, and you can consult data such as The Economist's democracy index or Freedom House's ranquing, which I believe are at your abst as you are at my abst. We have also learned that in the midst of the crisis in the Catalan university, the Ramon Llull Institute has lent EUR 200,000 in aid to professors at the London School of Economics and the University of Liverpool who have co-hosted conferences to talk about Catalonia from a purely separatist perspective. You claim to impose your monolithic and out-of-territory vision of Catalonia and make it Catalonia endins and Catalonia enfora. President Torra spent EUR 120,000 on foreign travel, mainly visits to Carles Puigdemont, with the sole purpose of misspeaking from Spain and visiting refugees. Certainly, I don't want to finish this intervention, even though I may have to continue later, because I don't have much time left, recalling two aspects of this government communication strategy that are two videos that the government has made to promote Catalonia during the celebration of the Mobile World Congress. The government has launched a promotional campaign with a pair of videos. The first of them talks about « Catalunya, a land of digital revolutionaries, and I find very paradigmatic about the enormous contradiction and the enormous distortion that you have of the reality of Catalonia. It seems enormously contradictory to me that a separatist government that speaks ill all day of Spain, that presents the reality of Spain as a fatal reality, of constant confrontation between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, as an oppression to the citizen of Catalonia unbearable..., and that triune precisely to announce these virtues of Catalonia the ophthalmologist Ignasi Barraquer and the surrealist painters, and more things than surrealists, Salvador Dalí or Joan Miró. I remember a phrase from this last one, by Joan Miró, because all three were overtly supporters of the Spanish unit. What you wanted to destroy was precisely one of the objectives of these three universal Catalans. Joan Miró said: "I am not in favour of separatism, I am a supporter of the unit of Spain. And he added: "The closed world is an obsolete thing, they have already emboldened us enough with the borders. Therefore, it seems to me if you do not contradict, counsel, you will agree with me, the claim of three universal Catalans uncomplicatedly proud of their Spanishiness on the part of a government that what they claim is to make it fit with a fatalist and confrontational discourse with the rest of Spain. The other video, and with this I finish, you will advise, another promotional video for the Mobile, affects with a view off in the virtues of Catalonia, and one of the main elements in which it affects this video is precisely the quality of our infrastructures, with images of the Barcelona airport, which, as you all know, depends on the Ministry of Development. This claim is in addition to what the President of the Generalitat made yesterday, who claimed the port of Barcelona as the first port of the Mediterranean, oblivioning that they rely on Ports of the State. Therefore, you will agree with me, Madam Counselor, once more that this demand for the quality of the infrastructure in Catalonia does not marry well with your fatalist and trembling speech about the reality of Spain. Stop lying about the reality of Spain and do the citizen of Catalonia a favor and cohabitation and truth. Stop degrading the image of Catalonia, please. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.191.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Now has the word, to answer the inquiry, the Presidency Counsellor, Elsa Artadi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.192.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies... first of all, thank you for all. I said it the other time, and I sincerely appreciate it because it doesn't always happen in this room. Before I get into the Toni Albà theme, I'll be happy to answer it there, precisely that it gives me the opportunity, I quickly comment on the videos. One of the two I saw, because I presided over an act on the evening or Tuesday at Palau, of the Digital Revolutionaries, which seemed to me to be fine. It was not an independent video, it was a video about how innovative and talented is the Catalan economy and society. And frankly, assuming that it would be a person or not today, whether it would be independenceist or not in the current circumstances, I wouldn't, because clearly the mainstream of Catalan society has changed quite in the past few years and very quickly. About the port and the airport. Listen to me, there are things about the port and the airport that work well and there are things that work badly. That the airport management is from Aena and that it is from the State, what do you mean? What do we need to see that it is not in Catalonia and that, therefore, we cannot display it as one of the Catalan infrastructures? Or why does the Spanish government have the title...? That's what I really didn't hear, so I'm leaving it here. Mr. Toni Alba's tweet obviously saw him, because I believe that a great deal of controversy has been generated around this tweet. It's a pitiful tweet, it's a masculist tweet and it's an insulting tweet; it deserves to condemn, not my own and not her, but everyone else, to rebuy, because it's a vexing comment on a woman that's generalizable to all women. So, I think it's good that you've had this controversy, that you've had this impact, both in the media and in the media. And I would appreciate it if when you went through something like this and did, as happened in this circumstance, people very politically opposed to the leader of their party in Catalonia, who also went through other cases – that also went through other cases. When Mrs. Anna Gabriel was told "fucked and fucked badly, it didn't all happen. And I didn't feel too much people defending her. Or when you say bitch to the Navy Geli, or when you say to Marta Rovira – just like Anna Gabriel took advantage of to greet them; Marta Rovira should now be our companion to the hemisphere and is in exile. [[applause]] – when told to Marta Rovira: "Basura will track down. What will you work on? Watchmaker, 'cause I'm sure not, much more explicit. When you tell the independenceists pigs and scum, they don't get away with it. Nor did I see, on the part of the entire political spectrum, the same level of condemnation of a business article by Mr Joaquín Luna about whether it is healthy to have a ‘young bride'. And neither have we seen, speaking no longer of women, but of vulnerable collectivities, in the Lord Arcadi Sword, when it comes to couples who are waiting for a child with Down syndrome and saying that if anyone lets a person who is ill be born without having avoided it, without that, tell them "... foolish, sick and worse and criticizing them, that even Dincat has had to make a complaint for hate, neither have we seen all this level of repulsion. And, if I may – and I know it's hard to get through this again – the day that Jenn Diaz in this very Faristol provoked one of the most exciting moments of this legislature, and surely of all, denouncing the situation of male violence that had suffered with great courage and a great heart, many of you, and not all of you, because I especially remember Mr. Jean Castel, who was applauding, but many of you were frozen like a refrigerator, because, of course, how politically we are so opposed we can't even give a support to Jenn Diaz. [[Greetings.]] At that time, when you do these things, instead of looking like you're defending the rights of women, it seems like you're defending the rights of some women. But here it is that we defend the rights of all women, of Mrs. Inés Arrimadas García, but also of the others. And if you have so much interest in defending the rights of women, what do you do with the ultra-right in Andalusia? What will they do if they have the occasion in the Spanish government? What are they gonna do? Will they continue to deal with those who want to repeal laws against male violence? Will those who want to eliminate the laws of equality between women and men continue to agree? Will they continue to deal with those who spread lies and make negationist speeches? They're gonna follow it, too? Or then this doesn't happen, because she's not talking about a member of your group? So let's stop being all so hypocritical and condemn when it happens to everyone. And in this case, and I can put in names and surnames of people who are totally alienated from their political space who have done so, and therefore that is why this controversy has been generated so vastly. About the corporation's style book, which corresponds to the corporation doing it, talks about its workers and talks about its employees. In this case, this person is hired for a company that donates TV3 services, which provides TV3 services. It must be this company, it must be TV3 that takes these decisions and not the Government of the Generality, because we do not contract on behalf of TV3. If we go looking at all the collaborators who have TV3 or Catalunya Radio and all those who make offensive comments, we may not end up, including people who share political space with you, as Mr. Canas would be. The other subject that you have taken from me, which is the issue of court coverage by TV3. Congratulations again TV3 and Channel 3/24 for the great audiences they're making. The backs came out of the month of generation. Take advantage of the fact that I join the Faristol, because tomorrow Mr. Vincent Sanchis, just as Mr. Saul Gordillo must go and declare to Jutjat number 13, this Jutjat number 13 that he is practically investigating the half of this hemisphere. Therefore, to give them from us all the support, from the government, and surely from a large part of this hemisphere. TV3 is still listening; it's back to the genre. And it's true, Channel 3/24 is going through the judgment without any size, it's going through without. And the audience's answer is clear, the court generates interest. And the TV3 data that makes every month fight your audience, according to you, would be proving that every time there are more independents in Catalonia because how, according to you, only the independents look at TV3 the new memory that has made the generation, so, listen to me, it's very good. We are very proud of the data that TV3 is making and above all of the success that the independent movement is having in excavating the movement. The data for the broadcast, Channel 3/24 had never made this hearing. And the problem you have is not that TV3 passes it or not passes it, it's that I suppose there are some of you that bothers them that they feel the voice of those who have been locked up for more than seven months in prison for having called a referendum and let us vote on what we're sitting here but also let us vote on what we're sitting here. And surely what does not matter is to hear Oriol Junqueras say that voting is not a crime, but it is a crime to attack the citizenry. You probably don't want to feel like Councilman Turull, who takes a year to prison for an interview, but when a constitutionalist dresses up, that's a bargain. Surely they do not want to hear the Lord, Councillor Raül Romeva said that "there is no article in the Spanish Constitution prohibiting the right to self-determination, which is a matter of political will. They probably don't want to feel like Councilman Forn denies the prosecutor's lies about split tricks, talking about devastated cars. They certainly don't want to hear Councilman Rull say that ‘mobilization is a fundamental element in any democracy that sees it itself as a normal, healthy and serious democracy. Above all – above all – they must not want to hear the Constellera Bassa when she says: "I do not answer the particular accusation for respect for the gifts of Spain. [[Greetings.]] They probably don't want to hear when in Jordi Sánchez, a Member of this House, he has to say that it is important to know what action the Civil Guard has taken because it is surprising that some vehicles are not placed in a parking lot, are not protected and are kept with weapons. And they don't want to feel in Jordi Cuixart when he says, after five hundred days: "My priority is not to get out of prison, my priority is to denounce the attack and the violation of rights and freedoms in Catalonia and the Spanish State. Above all – above all – they must not want to hear President Forcadell, the president of this chamber, say: "The essence of democracy is that the word of Parliament must be free. As you may not want to feel the embolisms made by Mrs. Sáez de Santamaría; the lies of the prosecutor when confon Oriol Pujol with Oriol Junqueras; when people are asked if it is socia d'Omnium and Assembly as if it were the Islamic State; when they are asked, when do they ask that they do not bring any evidence about facts and actions that have brought innocent people to prison since more than seven months ago; when they ask about mail that they have recovered a person and that they have not been opened as if they had been generated and above all not as former members of this chamber, Mr. Bathrooms and Mrs. Regant are also denied to answer Vox despite the implications that this has at the personal level. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.193.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then again, it's the deputy's reply to the questioner's questioner.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.194.0	Thank you, Mrs. Artadi Counselor. My questions were very clear and I see that they have not found an answer. First, do you consider that a character like Toni Albà who said what he said about the opposition leader, about Inés Arrimadas, who said what he said about Mr. Iceta, about Mr. Valls and about other constitutional leaders, must continue to collaborate on a public television that we pay among all Catalans? That was the question, not another one. What I have made clear is that if someone like the person who said what you said about Marta Rovira was a Spanish public television worker, so from Spanish Television, or from another autonomous community, I would tell you and assure you that any member of my group, and of course speaking of myself, I am convinced that I would tell you that it is not worth collaborating on a public television someone who is able to say seem disconcerted. I'm telling them for sure. Therefore, ask them, and have another opportunity to tell me, do you think that a person like Toni Alba can continue collaborating with TV3? Is it normal for TV3 to continue contracting him or the producers to contract him or her in a systematic way and to continue bouncing his or her speech, his or her hatred pedagogy in public media or from his or her personal accounts? I think the question was quite simple. Other things he has commented here, sincerely to me I am not bothered to hear the discordant voices and I am delighted to be able to follow and this is something that I believe honors the Spanish democracy by the fact that this judge can follow the assembly of the citizens of Spain and concretely the citizens of Catalonia with all normality, but I am not quoted as the argument of authority of international law by Mr Romeva, with all respect for him. But I'm telling you that if Mr. Romeva says that Catalonia has a right to self-determination, I'm responding to what Mr. Ban Ki-moon, former UN Secretary General, says, or what resolutions 15, 14 and 26, 25 of the UN General Assembly say, that some authority more than Mr. Romeva must have on this issue. I simply, Mrs Artadi, asked you for a question of decency, of a question of moral decency, if you really consider that the citizens of Catalonia who are not separatists should pay, you have to pay with our taxes the pedagogy, the publications, the sentimental pornography that we are seeing these days with the geography that it is, the idolatry that is made of the defendants, the accused for serious crimes like the rebellion, like the sedition, like the misappropriation of the great public. Because what they did in Catalonia, I insist, did a huge harm to millions of citizens in Catalonia, probably more than most. Because you are a hero, I can hear it, for us, I have already said, that you are morally guilty because you have done a huge harm to Catalan society. They are guilty of having divided Catalonia, they are guilty of having generated a huge instability, of having caused a flight of companies without precedent to Catalonia and of having ultimately generated a climate of chasm and violence to Catalonia without precedent. Now, that could in any case be questionable, which is not normal, which is not entirely normal, is that the Catalonian public television that we pay all Catalans act as the transmission correctness of the message from Catalans, in this case of what the separatist government says, and that makes defenses in this trial an altarpiece. It's not a coverage that's worthy of some quality public media, it's not at all. And tell me how you tell me you won't convince me otherwise. I insist on what you were saying to him, Mrs Artadi, I think you have an opportunity to answer the question clearly and without beginnings: do you think that Mr Toni Alba is a TV3-worthy collaborator? Don't you think TV3 should definitely dispense with its collaborations? And, in short, I believe that all of my intervention has been linked to an aspect that..., you even said that we could not make interpretations of how Salvador Dalí, Joan Miró or Mr. Ignasi Barraquer would think today. I am convinced that they would continue, like the Junta of the Ciutadans Group and the Junta of the Citizens of Catalonia who feel retarded to the idea of Spain, defending the unity of Spain; I am not convinced. In fact, he has told us – even though Mr. Eduard Pujol is making skirmishes – and all of Mr. Joan Miró's net; he has explained to us how his bird thought, he has explained to us what his vision is about Spain and has told us again that his bird was a supporter of the unit of Spain, that his bird was opposed to separatism, because he considered it to be an obsolete idea. Therefore, the only thing he says is that it seems to me that there is a huge contradiction between his victimistic relationship, between his claim to present Spain as an oppressive country and Catalonia as an oppressed colony, and that then he boasts, in his promotional videos, that Catalonia is a land with immense quality infrastructure, which attracts a large amount of foreign investment, which effectively competes in a globalized world and manages to have a lot of good results from this point of view, precisely because of the good quality of the infrastructure we have in Catalonia. These infrastructures, I remind you, have been girls for what you call the "oppressive state." Actually, to me, TV3 presents someone like Oriol Junqueras as a great lover of Spain, someone who has talked about genetic differences between Catalans and the rest of the Spanish; someone who is able to say that Spain is spying on us, to say it correctly in català – that Spain is spying on us – someone who speaks in these terms of the rest of Spain is not someone I think of as Spain. Therefore, I, as the city of Catalonia do not have to pay for a report in which it is said that junkery is love..., because junkery has done much harm to the city of Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.195.0	Mr. Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.196.0	...and has done a lot of harm to millions of citizens of Catalonia who want to continue living together...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.197.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.198.0	...with the rest of Spain with normality. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.199.0	He'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.200.0	I find it peculiar that we can only condemn a person's claims if he or she works or has a contractual relationship with someone who works for TV3, and only in these cases. Listen, here's a problem that's social and that's widespread. Look, I want to do it at the back of the news... I didn't want to get it, but there's someone else we're paying for, too, and that's Mrs. Arrimadas. And when Mrs. Anna Gabriel faced death threats, Mrs. Arrimadas' television response was: "What was she expecting? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, our speech is not victimistic. Our speech is descriptive, our speech is brave, our speech is mobilized, but above all our speech is vindictive and combative, and it will follow, so. You're not a victimist. I'm sure you've lost all these hours of judgment, but if you hadn't seen it, the leaders who are in prison and should have listened to the ones we're in the room and the ones who are in the street. On the system of Spanish justice, which has not given me time to answer it, the Council of Europe has been leading since 2014 criticizing Spain for the politicization of the system of justice. Maybe that's what I lost. And in particular, criticizing him for the appointment of the judiciary. The Economist, who, well, sometimes likes to quote, but sometimes not, why? Because now he has just lowered the qualification to Spain on his democratic quality, precisely – precisely – to prevent by force the independence consultation of Catalonia of '1 October, and for the repressive treatment of independence policies. And neither should I surprise you, when exactly half of the Spanish citizen believe that..., the perception you have about judicial independence is painful or very painful. Therefore, it is not a question of independenceists or not independenceists. You also told me about President Torra's travels. Well, among the work of the President of the Generality, whether he is President Torra or anyone else in this country, there are institutional relations at the international level. That I already know that there are people that bother him, that do it, President Torra, as did President Puigdemont, President Mas or any other president who has touched the Generality. But it is obvious that President Torra will continue to do his job, explaining how he is alive, without filters, without interpretations, how he is seen the situation in Catalonia, as does Counsellor Bosch or the rest of the General Councillors. And you're talking about the money they spend. It is that fifty years – fifty years – of President Torra's trips to pay – fifty years – the cost of building the Spanish embassy to Morocco. Fifty. Or fifteen, for which the embassy in London cost. Or five to decorate the embassy in Tokyo. Therefore, I did not talk about costs, when Spain has an embassy in Moscow of 140,000_euros per month, and one in Paris of 14.450_metres_quadrats. What does President Torra do when he travels? So he is meeting with Mrs Sturgeon; he goes to a festival, invited for the Smithsonian, which is not any institution either; the president of the Republic of Slovenia, the mayor of the capital, of Ljubljana ; the president of the European Parliament, makes a conference to Stanford, who does not do it either, or, among others, the president of Flanders or the Flemish Parliament. Surely they are much more successful journeys than you did on the day you passed to Waterloo, where you did not have the heart or to pass the doorway, though it was open, to speak as educated people, and as good politicians, making high politics. It's a hell of a deal to make 1,300 miles to take a picture of himself with a banner that lasted 15 minutes, because the police came to take them out. It is a pity that in the place of making a spectacle, not political, all folds, and now we know that the Belgian police want to impose a sanction on them to manifest themselves when they do not have authority, to install an electric generator and to disturb the veins in a residential area, and to park poorly on the public street. This is the success, too, that you have in international politics. Thank you. [[Greetings. Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.201.0	Say'm, Mr. Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.202.0	For allusions, Mr. President. Article 87.2. What you've been talking about... well, I'm sorry, if I may...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.203.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.204.0	What you've been talking about, Mrs. Artadi. We're still curious about what we give. What Mrs. Arrimadas said precisely about what they had said, about the threats suffered by Mrs. Anna Gabriel, was a dictation, without any beginnings. He made an absolutely radical and no beginnings and no matter what. Another thing is that after you want to do journalistic interpretations and you want to give a game to this. Now, to say that Mrs. Arrimadas did not condemn those death threats to Mrs. Gabriel is an authentic fallacy and it is to fail to the truth and respect of Mrs. Arrimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.205.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.206.0	...which is already the second time they make today in the Ple. So, they ask them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.207.0	It's been 30 seconds. You don't have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.208.0	...that I took it off. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-28-2502.209.0	In any case, honourable Member, I understand what you have raised, but that would in any case be a contradiction, not an allusion. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's raise the session. Thank you very much.
