ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.1.0	Deputies, deputies, good morning. [[Pause.]] Vagina sit on your respectable escons... [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into health transport and emergence services]] [[302-00096/12]] Let us resume the session with the twenty-first item on the agenda, which is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on health transport and emergency services, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unit Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose this young man, Mr Vidal Aragonès has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.2.0	Good morning. In the first place, we wanted to recognize and thank the origin of the present young man, who is the Technical Collection in Lulita. With this young man, we have wanted to accompany the struggles that are developing different collections of workers and workers of the Emergencies and Health Services Service. But we also wanted to do other exercises. The first, to radiograph what is the sector on today's day and the second, to pose alternatives. First, in this X-ray, we wanted to approach and express – because I am very clear – all our support for the workers and workers of health transport in the end-of-work pocket – and of the Emergence Service too – because they are, in the end, the ones who support the system of health transport and of emergencies. But to recognize, in a very strong way, that the current management model is an absolute flaw. And this characterization of fractures, we do it after analyzing the data of the same department. Department data that tells us: increase of 78_percent of user complaints, lack of coordination between central units and territories, integrative of the assistance system, enveloping of the fleet of vehicles and mismanagement of programmed routes. If, at the same time, we add to the recognition made by the Department of Health about penalties imposed on contracting companies, we would simply have, for a period from the end of 2015 until the end of 2018, of eighty-eight penalties resulting from sixty-seven shippers, for a value – and we want to repeat – of 1,073,264_euros, more than a million euros of penalties and what this above means of degree of incompliments. Before that, we have proposed maximums and minimums; or proposals for another management model, and proposals within the current management model. First alternative: to prepare, from now on, the process of internalization of the health transport management of Catalonia. And we also say that until this process of internalization is carried out, other measures that we will explain later. Yes, we also said that this, the procedure of internalisation, can now be done, if we have some reports telling us that the incompliments that some contractors make are hard enough to extinguish the contract and we don't have to compensate them with a penny. We do not want to deceive anyone, since the CUP - Constituent Creed, our model is public, of public management. And it would be incomprehensible to us that, from a department governed by the Republican Left, we did not choose, with the greatest possible patent, to internalize a service that was privately managed. But we also want that until this effective service internalisation exercise arrives there are some better guarantees of control and follow-up of contracts, and there are some better working conditions not only for the subcontract, but also for this group reduced workers and workers who are also part of the service, and who have direct contract through the EMS. What are we proposing? Therefore, control of the service to evaluate every six months the compliment of the content of departures from working conditions, maximum time, medical codes or something as simple as coming to explain and justify, when in a non-urgent service, as a non-urgent transport, the wait is more than two hours. And, for another band also, that, until the internalisation is made effective, the departures of conditions have to include questions that would seem to us so sensile, so simple and so consumable that the same work is covered equal wages. And, therefore, that we do not have, through subcontracting, realities for which there are workers and workers who do the same job and cover a 40_per_cent less. Also, at the same time, that there is a reference to the appropriate collection of the sector, and that the worker or worker may charge less than that which establishes the appropriate collection of the sector and which, for the same functions, may charge what establishes the appropriate collection of the SEM. Limit temporary contractation only to temporality assumptions. It is not possible that, with the management, or through the management of a public service, you are giving yourself a whole series of temporary contract assumptions, in some cases, fraudulent, and in some others, legal, but not necessary. And also limit the subcontracting of the same subcontract to the legal minimum, which is often not converted into an endless chain of subcontracting. In short, guarantee the departures of conditions, decent working conditions and stable working conditions. A question of minimums. And lastly, we also wanted, through a transaction with the group of the commons and with the Ciutadans Group, that the workers and workers of the SEM – those contracted directly for the SEM – already incorporate in their remuneration the increments that they approved in Decree 3/2019. We want to move government groups: you, with this vote on this motion, are not only voting for a health transport, but are voting to keep a failed management model, or to bet on a public management model. And they would have to do another reflection if in the reality that it means [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I ended up, president – the current private management, you keep it, that would mean or should already explain that they advance, for a band, the negotiations of concrete enterprises, and that they do not bet for a public service of quality, efficient and with decent working conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.4.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, first of all, greet and express the solidarity of the Socialist Group and Units to advance with the professionals and the workers and workers both of the Servei d'Emergèncias Médicas and of the health transport, who today have wanted to accompany us and to express here, and so, their concern for the situation in which they see both collections. The deputy Aragonese, in the presentation of the motion, made an X-ray of the situation. I, on this X-ray, might add a part of the story, wouldn't I? Let this story begin the year 2015 with that government of the best, that with the Boi Ruiz in front of the council of Salut, three competitions – almost at the gates of some elections – that has been..., well, a contest of more than 2,000_million euros in the two years and that, somehow, from the first moment it has been seen that it was not only the best model, but that, moreover, it has been a weakness of model and management. Fracàs, I believe that from the first moment we saw each other, and we saw it here during the year 2016, because we saw a multitude of motions, ask the government, and also proposals for resolutions in the same Health Commission, which raised complaints to territories, for the failure of established regulations, for the ill-being of the bases, for the maltreatment of the professionals, for the failure of the maximum response time. And here, as of April 2016, it was approved in this plenary an ample motion to try to address the problems of health transport and seek an answer. A young woman who was also endorsed, at that time, by the group that supported the Government and Councillor Comín. But at the time of truth, the incompliments were in a systematic way. And, therefore, they did not complete any of these agreements that today, in this young man, we again claim to be complete. In the end, one thinks it's that Parliament takes care of itself as a whole, and when it doesn't fit, so it doesn't fit. But normally, it doesn't fit when it affects the citizens of this country, or it affects a lot of the workers of this country. Therefore, the only thing that was done was an Aquas report that actually recommended a series of changes that, at the time, have not been completed. Meanwhile, we have, say, continuing with this X-ray – and I think that Mr Aragonès has done very well – some health transport workers at the border, both for their work conditions and for their inability to provide quality services. A model that doesn't work, needs not covered, expedients open to concession firms that don't know whether or not they are the cause of termination of the contract. Some professionals of the Medical Emergencies Service, the SEM, who, as they say, arrive first and cover the last, who are taking a two-day break, and who are at the limit. In this sense, the papers have been incorporated into this motion to guarantee your remuneration rights and your collective bargaining rights, which we believe has been a certainty and which we will therefore support. Because the SEM workers do not recognize them or the increase in remuneration approved for the rest of the public workers, nor can they secure a suitable one. And meanwhile, the situation is that we've been told we're missing more than half the professionals or can't cover 100 percent of the units. In this sense, we will give, therefore, support to the motion and to the compromise texts to which it has come, from this motion on health transport, in order to be able to adjust the model established the year 2015 and advance towards a model of ownership management and public provision. We have presented a point, in the sense of opening the debate, of hoping that the concession will be completed. It has not been admitted and, in this sense, we will abstain at this point, point number 3. But more, I think..., not because we do not agree on the basis of the question, that we go to a model of management and ownership and public provision, but – in any case – it is that we believe that concessions must be completed first. We will give support because it is realizin and the sanctioning shippers are free, which the councillor has exhausted in the response to the inquiry, to dispose of all the information and act accordingly. We will also give support to ensure the working conditions – as it cannot be in any other way – of the workers of the two collections, as I said before. And, in short, we hope that this young man is more successful than that of 2016 and that we are still able to overcome the heavy damage that we are causing at this time to the user, to the patient and to the professional who always arrive first, and that we hope that they will continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gemma Espigares has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.6.0	Thank you, President. I begin, as those who have preceded me have done, greeting the people who are with us today or who are following us, with whom, moreover, we may have been speaking. Because today we do two things: today we talk about concrete details of the problems that health transport has in this country, but we also talk about the model. And I think it's important that we lay the foundations on which model we've been working on for the last few years. Obviously, those deficiencies that there are – that there is – and that we need to be able to improve them, but also all the strengths that the system has, and that are also very important. The Medical Emergencies System, the SEM, I think we'll be convinced that it's a system, it's a pillar of this health care system that we have; not only do we know everyone else for sure, that it's these rough ambulances, mostly, that go down the street and arrive when there's an accident, when there's a problem, but also all the ambulances that do scheduled transportation. And also all the people in the coordination centers, looking at these phones, looking at 061 and giving health advice. Because, for us, the whole prevention part is also very important. Therefore, a system that also brings us fairness, because the isochronous to attend, for example, an infarct, is the same to Lleida as to Barcelona. And you know that it doesn't happen with all the specialties of the world of salvation. And a system that has professionals – today it has been said – with a complicated situation and that we also need to address. Professionals who put the system in the service of people twenty-and-four hours a day, seven days a week. And that, besides, they do it with more than two million alerts every year and that, therefore, is no less. A system that is also in constant improvement, and we note some things: protocols such as the Ictus Code, the IAM Code, the Polytrauma Code, which are internationally referenced, which are based on scientific evidence and which improve, year after year. Some international projects, such as the POCTEFA, a European programme with Spain, with France, with Andorra and also with part of the universities here. An application that geolocalizes us and sends us data constantly, and this is no less: that every ambulance walks with a tablet means that at the moment you are attending the victims you have all the history, and therefore this is also a better one that we have found. A specialized assistance, for example, a methge who is in situ, or a nurse who is in situ and needs another, for example, specialized pediatrician and who by telephone assists him. And a system in constant adaptation. The memory of the Aquas Results Center – which, in addition to one of the reviews, is on the line that it is back to doing, because it brings us a lot of data – says that 45_percent of the incidents are resolved by phone call. Therefore, we have a system that resolves via telephone, and that only – only – 16_percent of the incidents require a resource with advanced life support, so with meth and/ or nursing in the territory. So I can't share it, Mr Vidal, when you say that the model is a failure. The model has been found to work; the model saves lives, which is the most important. Moreover, I will ask, President, the reading of point 4.b, because it seems to me to be a very important error and an attack against a profession, in this case the infirmary collection, when it is said that it is intended to return to the previous model, when there are ambulances with technical and infirmary that are resolving. Therefore, it is not possible, to the Health Committee, to say that the nurses must progress, that they must have opportunities, and also to say that they are a failure and that they need to be accompanied by a doctor to cure. And finally, aware of the work situation of the workers, the government cannot replace collective bargaining – and you know that – but it can be a facilitator and can do two things – as at least two things. The first, to audit – and the Vergés Councillor said very well the other day –; the objective is not to penalize the awardees – it is not – the objective is that it works well. I think that's what everybody understands. But we've still gone from 180,000 euros in fines to 1 million dollars in fines. Therefore, a government that is taxing what is not working. And a government that has every intention of changing the clauses in their own departures. And, in this sense, we will vote in favour of much of the proposals that are being made, to add to the environmental and social clauses. Therefore, with the strategic plan to solve some things, with focus groups, with workers and associations to finish solving it, and with high satisfaction– 123 complaints to the year, less than 0.01 and less than any other autonomous community –, model that works, model that saves visions and high satisfaction. So let's put ourselves in something that doesn't work, but let's not downgrade it that we're doing well. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Lluís Guinó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.8.0	President, President, Councillors, Members, Members, let me begin, as the previous representatives have done, giving welcome to the people who are among us today. In fact, this should be a regular activity, which is that all sectors of society that have some concerns or problems that worry them have the ability, precisely, to work together with parliamentary groups to try to reach solutions and that can actively participate in these solutions. For another band, I wanted to focus on which especially affects the workers, beyond the model. I will not enter into what is the strict and conceptual value of the model, I wanted to focus on those aspects that affect the workers more directly, which this precisely motivated in highlighting a few aspects, and we want to subrate them. There is a question that you have to see with all these questions that affect the SEM need a critical review of the system and its functioning, and more must be done with the active participation of the actors of the activity, and especially the workers, for one band, and the users, for the other. So, we need to create mechanisms for participation, in this debate that needs to be opened, and, therefore, there are, in some way, different spaces defined. One is the same strategic plan, which must allow, with the participation, I insist, of workers and users and of the same Administration, to make proposals of better for the future, without oblivion that it is a public service and that, moreover, as a consequence of other motions approved by this Parliament, it must be set up as a public service, more than a strictly public management area, that this is one of the modifications, surely, that will be carried out in the period that it is going to take from now on. Above all, however, don't ever forget that a deep debate has to be made, and it can be done in the own strategic group, but it can also be done through different commissions, even in territorial commissions that are already being completed – some in Girona: road commissions. And one of the aspects that has called for the most attention in the study, in preparation and in entering into the question that precisely attacks this young man – and that is why I thank the UPC that has initiated it – is that this is a service that must be especially curated and must take into account, precisely, the territorial characteristics of our territory. Our territory is diverse and, therefore, certainly cannot be done..., apply generic criteria or general criteria, but the territorial structure of our country must be taken into account very much. And this is an aspect that we want to give to us, as to Juntes for Catalonia, a special transcendence. He also said that, as it also affects workers, and very directly..., everything you have to deal with strictly labor-related issues: we want them to apply it; we want them to pay the hours they have to pay; we don't want to..., or we don't defend contracts to be precarious; we want them to be professional, and we also agree with a statement presented by other parliamentary groups that there is, precisely, the direct application of what are the wage increases that have been made to the public administration, precisely from Decree 3/2019; therefore, we also agree, that this is a better one. And, for what he does at the start of contracts, certainly, in all questions of public policies, in all areas, an effort has been made, the later years, to try to make the departures more just; then, from a social perspective, more powerful, and even more so, from an environmental point of view, he also has his characteristics and, in some way, he is more demanding with the contracting companies. And, in this, there are different points of this motion, which we will also vote for, which require more equality, which require more compromise on the part of the contractors, and more respect, precisely, the workers' labour rights. And this is another aspect to which we will also give support, and which we believe is basic and functional that this is. I; in the end, a question that has an effect on all areas of public administration: that it should be more transparent, that it should be..., or that it should give the opportunity to audits, whether external or internal; that it should work and develop the administrative task and the task of the service itself, but that it should be in constant critical review, that task and that service, because, certainly, without a critical review of the system or public policies it is impossible to apply criteria of improvement. Therefore, we also invite users and invite workers to actively participate in what is the critical review of the model. In short, there will be a motion that will have the majority support of all parliamentary groups. I thank the CUP that has made this proposal, and all the submissions are also appreciated. And I think we've got or will get a consensus between all the parliamentary groups. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] That it is not precisely here in Parliament, but that what is interesting about these motions is that they have a direct translation into the day-to-day management of the government and that they satisfy the concerns...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.9.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.10.0	...of the workers and, basically and objectively, of the users of the service. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, the honourable Member, Mrs Marta Ribas, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.12.0	Good morning, President. Councillors, Members and Members of Parliament, and especially the public representing the sector, both of the health transport and of the SEM... We are speaking in this motion of the most important public contest surely of the past years in Catalonia, not only by economic volume of this contest, but also for the polemic and problematic of the sector, of the service and of the same contest itself and of how it was managed later. There were reasonable doubts about how the Boi Ruiz Councillor, the new model, could affect differentiably according to five territories; how it could affect the proper quality unification of the service throughout the country; how it could affect the role of healthcare professionals working in this sector, in this service. All those doubts and fears that were initially before that contest, and while he was preparing, the truth is that it materialized and continued to be realized during these years. There were problems and delays. There have been problems and delays in the deployment, but there have been problems with the detail of working conditions, the approximations, the problems between the roles of professionals in this sector; the technical deficiencies with vehicles, with materials, with bases on which they work; the incompliments with occupational safety issues, and above all the insufficiency and the imprisonment of the service also for the citizenry, with territorial irregularity and, therefore, with the transition from the quality of the service that is available, to the visquis visquis de Catalunya. This is about urgent health transport. If we are talking about non-urgent health transportation, it is an absolute disaster: hours and hours of waiting for the citizenry; long journeys for a journey from the hospital to home or from home to the hospital. Well, we've been denouncing it on very many occasions to the Parliament of Catalonia, especially the workers in this sector and also the users have been denouncing it. And it was found in the Aquas report of 2016, that this system, that this model didn't work and said a lot of things about that report. But let me make a special point of reference to what the Republican Left Member referred to, which we will be talking about today in this..., and we will vote on this young man, point 4.b of this young man. The 2016 Aquas report said that in the vast majority of cases, a 97_per_cent, when a DIR does not do so only and is mobilized between a 30 and a 40_per_cent more devices than in the previous model. That's what point 4.b of the young man is talking about. Let's go back to the most efficient model of activated services that there were before, because the demonstration of these years is that this current system, which this model that was put into this contest, is not effective. Mirin, we believe that neither 2016, from that Aquas report, nor afterward, with the subsequent governments already with the Republican Left carrying this department and these responsibilities, have not made sufficient corrections to everything that has already been detected from errors in the model. So, yes, we believe that this CUP motion is appropriate and we will support all the points, because, as we have done before, we believe that actually the demonstration of years and parts makes us think that we may have to plan strictly and seriously that this service is one of those that we should make the effort to internalize in its management. And what you're saying is the point of the CUP motion to respect is that we do it when the concessions are over, if it hasn't happened before. And if it's not done before I understand that it means, for other points of the same motion, that the government exercises control over how they are managing these businesses and that, therefore, if they're not doing well, they can withdraw the concession with all the world's legal reasons. We've incorporated two items. One is that the Aquas report is repeated with the same criteria of 2016; the other, to talk about the problems of SEM staff, is that who is managing and channeling all these people who wait and despair for the problems of health transport. He's doing it with detail of working conditions, with less personal, so, no? , with less conditions. And they're complaining to us this week, two days away... and they're complaining to the government that we're solving this issue. And, therefore, the other point is one, I think, of justice, which obviously seems to be approved, which is that it is applied as a minimum to what this Parliament has approved, which is the law that improves conditions, the wage increase for all public workers, and which is done independently of the negotiation that is made of an agreed collection. He will advise, President, to transfer to the SEM officials who complete it, because if they bring us this issue here today [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] If they've taken two days off, it's because what wasn't going on these last few days is that in the negotiation you're making sure...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.13.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.14.0	...which will be subtracted as the rest of the public staff of the Administration of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Jorge Soler has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.16.0	Well, thank you very much, President. President Torra, councillor, councillor, deputies and deputies, first place, I want to start by giving thanks for this young man. I think it is very important that we can discuss an issue that is obviously one of the priorities, it is essential among the health system. Therefore, my thanks for having this debate. To do it and listen to the workers, to have followed the wave, to have reminded me of that feeling, practically I think it is indescribable, therefore, of gratitude when the companies of the SEM arrive, when one has called them or when the company has called them, because we need them. And, therefore, from here to tell you that this feeling of gratitude that we have the companies, the health workers when you arrive, so you have it now also when we represent you here politically. So, therefore, many thanks for your work. Because, in fact, I remembered that this was my first seat, when I entered this Parliament, in the last parliamentary term; there were problems, now the honourable Member described them very well, there were reports, there were many complaints to the health system, in concrete terms to health transport, and this we did, we placed, in that parliamentary term, at the beginning, therefore, placing the focus on the issue of transport. It seemed that those policies would serve to make great changes, but the great changes, unfortunately, only served to remove a manager, but later, no more changes came. That is why, perhaps, I was surprised yesterday, when I asked my question, at the control session, I was asking for all this, exactly, what commitments would be made to the workers of the SEM, so, well, as always, it's already beginning to be said tired, practically it's the usual, isn't it? , an answer in which no answer is given, not to what I say, that, in the background, this matters very little, but it is that I was conveying what you have explained to me and you have explained to us in this Parliament as workers and as trade union representatives; therefore, I am surprised by this negative. That's why, taking advantage of the fact that today we have the very honorable president, so I was glad to know that you found him and that he told you that he will now have the compromise to listen to you. It's a shame that, for a while, you've been complaining about it, right? So a meeting..., I don't think it was asking a lot, I don't say anymore "yes, it's the most legitimate, but, well, I understand that it's the government and it has to take its forms; now, I'm trying to listen to you and look at your face, I think it was the most just. I wish that, today, since you found him... thank you for being here. I think yesterday... maybe, if I'm going to escape, why did I stay, maybe, nervous, huh? But I told you Angels. I'm sorry, but honestly it's what we think we're working on, in my case, in a consultation before we get into politics, when you get here. So, thank you, thank you for your work. I think it's obvious, when I speak and in my gaze, that my admiration for your collection has always been immense. I think that these fears need to be prioritized, not as much as – I think I told you at the meeting – because of the wage increase, it is legitimate, and therefore, a little more to say than the companies have already said, there is an agreement and it has to be completed, and the workers are left to pay. But, as I explained yesterday, for all the worrying issues, territorial, of shortcomings, that I think you absolutely agree. We have been asked, Member, concretely, for what I usually try to keep..., so where you say « the model is a weak one, I would prefer to say « it is a model that needs to be improved; it is obvious that there are many things that are bad, I know the first thing I try from here to say and recriminate it, but I think that perhaps the wording is a little, well, more subtle, a little lighter. In any case, where we wanted to add "where the model proved not to have worked, and we know that it did not accept us; we liked to review it very much. And especially thank the deal where we got there. You know that we have asked, as often as we do to the committee, for the appearance of the councillor, the staff, of the directives of the SEM. Get used to dropping these petitions because they don't want us to say it. So that in a young man we can say and guarantee that they will come, I especially like it. Therefore, President of Parliament, President Torra, Councillor, Councillor, Members and Members..., but very especially SEM workers, health transport workers, we care, appreciate and recognize your work, we are not proud, I am the first to arrive and our company has to be very grateful to you. From Ciutadans we believe that, in order to guarantee a public health system of equality for all Catalans, you can count on us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.17.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.18.0	Thank you, President. Sorry, too, for the fun. President of the Generality, Counsellor, Counsellor, Deputies, Deputies, Workers of the Service of Emergencies, Move forward... This young man..., the originator of this young man is the labor conflict around the workers of the Service of Emergencies. Therefore, you go ahead and support us in this situation, and therefore, the sufficient and necessary scope so that they can reach an agreement that can be satisfactory for the workers and, then, also, ultimately, also satisfactory for the service that we are talking about at this time. He takes advantage of the labour dispute to talk about modeling and to do so in two different areas, right? A first is related to the model, whether it has to be public or private. As on other occasions, we express our doubts and refer to whether a particular public service is to be provided with strictly public means or can be done through public-private collaboration, in this case, we are clear that public-private collaboration is the useful and effective mechanism for the long term of this service. Therefore, we will vote against all those motion's proposals which call for a strictly public model. With regard to the model of the medical emergence service implemented, it is a constant of this entire legislature that the criticisms, the complaints, the motions, the proposals for resolution in relation to the many dysfunctions that this service is patenting. Therefore, we believe that the government is to act in this sense, that it is to correct all these dysfunctions, and that this must be the solution; the solution cannot be said: "I shut down everything and return to the previous model. Finally, the model of collaboration – back to the beginning – public-private requires substantively two things for the Government or for the Administration: first, a departure of accurate conditions – and, in this sense, to put into value the Law of contracts of service to people, which will already collect many of the conditions that are required in this motion, which is the place where they are to be collected – and, secondly, on the part of the Government, there must be a very accurate control, a very accurate control that effectively all the conditions that were put into the bid are completed and completed correctly. And, therefore, if there are any shortcomings, the penalties must also apply, not because the Parliament says so, but because the government examines it and above this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. In the name, now, of the sub-group proposing, and to position itself on the items, has the new word the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.20.0	First, to thank the Socialist Group and Mrs. Escarp especially for recognizing that the model is failed as the girls; one of these, moreover, incorporated. In relation to the Republican Group, and we want to say it with the utmost respect, first of all, we do not want to face workers and workers and we are not critical of nurses or nurses, not one. And we want you to read expressly the point from which your reading has been requested because you will see that what we are expressly asking is the return to the model. Also about... And, by the way, a 20_per_cent failed, directly recognized this part, when it was not accompanied, for the same Republican Group. The band, when they say they don't want to interfere in collective bargaining, about two different questions. The first, on the subject of minimum wages. We must remind you, mirin, with a will of public service of the CUP, which has already been more than three years ago, November 17, 2015, that the Court of Justice of the European Union has established a feeling that it is possible to establish minimum wages. And, therefore, you transferred to your legal services, which is a law already recognized years ago. But we have to transfer something else to the Republic Group: when three years ago a campaign of "Go to the assembly, which set up a minimum wage of EUR 1,000, which was also making it a violation of collective bargaining? Therefore, it is not possible to go to the assembly to ask for a minimum wage for contracts and then to come here to Parliament and say that this is not legal. I review, yes, also their data, because what this group did in the inquiry and did in the motion is to use the data of the department; it did not use any other data, only the close of the department, and therefore the X-ray of the fraction is determined by the same data. Together for Cat you tell us that they want, they want, they want and they want, but remember that you are the government, and therefore you can guarantee under dignity, work and rest. And lastly, we want to thank in a very special way the Group of Catalonia in Comú for the incorporation that it has made through two elements, one, that of the Aquas, that we have incorporated it literally, and the second, that we wanted the workers and the workers contracted directly [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] for the SEM can already hold in its own name, that of June, the increment that establishes the Decree 3/2019. We've changed the wording just so today we don't come here from the government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.21.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.22.0	...to tell us that we were interfering in collective bargaining, and, therefore, looking for a mechanism where there is a working deposit, they already cover it and, in the end, it has to be incorporated. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. The reading of point 4.b was requested before their vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.24.0	Vote separate from point 2, for another cost on 3, and 4.b also apart.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.25.0	Each one of these separately, huh? [[Pause.]] Yeah. Mrs. Granados, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.26.0	The 3th and the 7th.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.27.0	All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.28.0	2, 3, for one cost; 4, 7, 8, 10 and 11, for another.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.29.0	Yes, ma'am Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.30.0	The 4.b, I think it was already ordered, but... separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.31.0	Yeah. Okay. Mr. Rodriguez told me 4, 7, 10 and 11, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And on the 8th, he lost. [[Pause.]] All right. Let's get to the vote, then. We begin by voting point number 2– point number 2. The vote begins. Point 2 was rejected by 29 votes to 62, with 35 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 12 votes to 4, with 110 abstentions. Let's now vote on point 4a–4a. The vote begins. Point 4.a_has been approved by 123 votes in favour, against and 3 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on 4.b. Before we do, however, we will proceed to your reading. Therefore, ask Secretary Pérez to read point 4.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.32.0	"4.b. Ensure urgent health transportation with the previous model; that is, multidisciplinary equipment and USVA.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.33.0	Let's get to the vote on this point. The vote begins. Point 4.b_has been rejected by 29 votes to 59, with 38 abstentions. We're voting point 7 – point 7. The vote begins. The seven-point was approved by 104 votes in favour, against and 19 abstentions. And we're voting on point eight now. The vote begins. The eighth point was approved by 123 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. We're voting for the point now. The vote begins. The point was approved by 123 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. We're voting now on the one-off point. The vote begins. The one-off point was approved by 123 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved; that is, 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Paroles of various Members of the European Parliament]] Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. In this connection, I would like to point out that, in view of the request made by different parliamentary groups, we are opening a brief round of interventions, at this point, with the support of the election of various members of this chamber, who have been elected in the past elections and who have asked to be able to take an intervention from this chamber as has historically been done on other occasions. And in this case, in the first place, for a maximum of five minutes, the deputy Gerard Gómez del Moral will intervene.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.34.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, this is my last intervention from here, from the Parliament of Catalonia, and to welcome, say, it's never simple, it's never easy, and there's always a lot of excitement in the hair, and more so, I have to say, right? Companions of our party aren't there today, they represent deep ties, well because they're caught, well because they're in exile or because they have to give up for repression. But, besides, I didn't just like myself today, from my parliamentary group, but also Oriol Junqueras. And in this sense I also want to read some notes that came to me so that I can read them here today in the plenary. « President, President of Parliament, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, Today I address all of you to welcome me. In a few days I will give up my minutes as MP of the Parliament of Catalonia. I make it sad and hope at the same time; I hope, because I am absolutely convinced that we will win, that we will get the freedom of this country and find ourselves again in this hemisphere, but also sad because we have to leave this room that I cherish. I'm getting these words from the Soto del Real prison, from where I write, but I'm doing it with the color and I'm hoping for it in this room. I do it from the loneliness of a cell, remembering the estons of loneliness before the beginning of the sessions where I took advantage of the calm and the history that weighs on the walls of this building to finish writing and think of my interventions. Today I will find you missing tomorrow; also these passers-by, the raisons, the ports of call, the Faristol, the parliamentary questions, the interrogations and the discussions, the uixers, the informal encounters with the journalists, your cares, your looks. There is also a stage that began in 2012 as a Member of this Parliament, his of the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, and where we have experienced some of the most important moments of our lives and of the country's recent history. The tank knows we won't stop and we won't give up even if we're threatened or started. If anyone thought we'd give up, they'd never know us. I want to continue defending democracy and freedom everywhere, and that is precisely why I am taking this step today. I'll come back and find ourselves, because we'll win, because this is where we'll discuss and resolve political conflicts, listening and talking to everyone, as we've always done, and because democracy, justice and freedom always win. A hug, a hug, a hug, a hug, a hug, a hug, a hug, a hug, a hug, a hug, [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] These are the words of Oriol Junqueras, a referent, and I, therefore, today, in this gratitude, I can only be grateful for having had this historic opportunity to share these two legislatures, despite the fact that they are just over three years old, alongside such immense people as I have had the opportunity to share and to have after gigant spaces. The truth is that in Parliament there are moments of all colors: joys, feathers, tears, rialles, slides, nerves, hugs and also hard times. And I also want to remember March 23rd, which for me was the hardest day I've ever lived in this Parliament, when, after the first investiture debate of the company and friend Jordi Turull, we hugged the parliamentary group and all of us rained, because we knew that we would probably not hug again because the weekend, as it happened, would go to prison. And I remember it as the toughest day I've ever lived in this room and in this house, because from then on, we haven't been able to embrace each other again in freedom, and we haven't been able to talk again, and we haven't been able to find each other again. And there are so many people I'm happy to share with, so all these years in Parliament that I don't want to quote, so that we don't run out of time, but I'm all, I'm all, from all groups, and I could quote them all, from all groups, with whom we've shared parliamentary fencing, but also good times, smiles, discussions, also bronchi. And I think that this is what must always be left: empathy, the word, the debate, from the ideological positions of each and every one of them, of course, from our firm conviction, of course, but always the word and always the grace that I will have in this room for all that I have been able to learn. With Machado, everything happens and everything remains, and it is ours to happen. So, we pass by today, we eat. It was a pleasure to serve this country at the expense of all of you. Jo got me a big record. And as Lluís Llach also said, we are lucky, we are all folded out, because of our fate, too, because of the fate of our country. Many thanks to all of you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.35.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. It's the return, now, of Congresswoman Laura Borràs. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.36.0	President, President, Councillors, Members, I arrived at this house of the word which until today has been home to me after President Puigdemont asked to be on the lists of 21 December. I told him yes – fearlessly, I suppose – that if he wanted to close the list, and I appeared by number five. That number made me enter politics and leave the comfort zone, from my job to the Institution of Catalan Letters; I made me become a member of this chamber, a member of the war room, and almost without time to go along with the new situation, from generation to May, I was appointed Minister of Culture of the Government for President Torra, the greatest professional honor I have ever had – from June to March. But as we know that April is the cruelest of all months, a new petition from President Puigdemont made me start the path that now leads me to Madrid. If then all were honors and privileges – to be a member of this chamber, to be a member of the Government of my country – now the way of deure, of personal duty to continue to work generously, loyally and faithfully to make Catalonia a normal country is open to me. As Councilman Rull told us the day before the constitution of this chamber, he actually entered the hemisphere and took a bait for which you were very impressed. Keeping your hands to the greatest price, the confidence and illusion of people who come to you to say that you believe in yourself, that you've been voted for, is a huge responsibility. I've been looking to take on it with dedication and competence, and I've discovered friends and opponents, partners and rivals. But today I want to thank all the people from whom and with whom I have been able to learn, beyond the ideological differences. I bring a good bunch of personal relationships with company from various groups, as well as from Parliament staff, layoffs, the cafeteria, the uixers, who have always treated me so well. And in the company of Junts for Catalonia, many friends – because what we have experienced in this almost year and a half has been very intense, as Gerard has said, of a high emotional, surely irreversible and indelibly marked us – in the company of Junts for Catalonia, I have found people with whom I will almost always have a very special bond, which is not about compromise and also about shared lives. It's the lights I'm getting from this Parliament. But there have also been shadows: the attempts to invest, the arrests, the undertakings... We may not have repeated it enough or perhaps we have repeated it too much, but we cannot allow ourselves to forget a moment when repression takes the form of a general cause against ideas, against dissent, against freedom of expression and manifestation, the victims of repression are not only people, few or many, forced to respond before the apparatuses of the State: the main victim is society in its assembly, which means all and every citizen that conforms to it, until all that aligns with the repression banner or that simply goes and looks at another gang, trusts to be re-authorized. Because civil and political rights are never right if they are partial. « No country can market the quality of its freedom, said Xirinacs. "And freedom is dignity," added President Macià, who also said: "Caltaunya will complete its dues at whatever cost. And I humbly believe that we have a duty, all the deputies of this chamber, with our fellow prisoners and exiles. I'm leaving with this relapse, which is a wait to keep moving forward. However, in the company of Jordi Sánchez, Councillors Rull and Turull, who could not have been full Members of this Parliament in this legislature. I'm going with them, and you're sure to draw the deep loops that make us sadly present, but don't forget them. I'll keep working for them and with them. But I end up with words of my very esteemed and also very honorable President Torra. In 2012, speaking to Pere Cardus, he asked him about the independence of the United States, and he said that it was a whole generation, with the support of the American people, that he threw into front of independence. We'll get over it anyway. Independence is not a party object, but a country object. This is the huge challenge that Catalonia has: finding leaders who conform compromised teams with the national liberation process and who are able to work together. And not only in the field of politics, but also in economics, culture, law, science or art. The key is to share projects and values. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] If we succeed – I finish, President – if Catalonia is put first, our Parliament will have the greatest honour of its life: to proclaim to the world, democratically, peacefully, our freedom. I hope I can go back to see it, I hope I can go back to live it, I hope I can go back to do it with all of you. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.37.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It's Mrs. Inés Arrimadas' turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.38.0	Thank you, Mr. President. The first time I came to Barcelona, visiting, I was still a girl. Many people from the rest of Spain have come to Catalonia many times to live a dream. We have felt admiration for this open, cosmopolitan, modern land, and for this great city that has been the new home of many people. [[The speaker's excited.]] Ostras... After that visit I have come many times, and no one was surprised years later, of those who knew me as a little girl, who later came to work, to live, and who even ended up marrying a Catalan, whom I knew in this very Chamber. I, like many other people, have been Catalan of choice, like many other Catalans not born in Catalonia. And I never thought I'd be in politics. When I worked in private enterprise, I could not imagine that I would end up in Parliament's Chamber or in any other institution. But the defense of freedom, equality, democracy, social justice brought me here in 2012, and this has been an immense honor. Being a member of the Catalan Parliament has been an honor that was later surpassed by being the leader of the opposition, and even more by being, together with my team, winners of the 2017 elections. Many things have happened in these six years, hundreds of proposals, initiatives; many debates, commissions, plenary sessions, visits to the territory, meetings. I would like to thank everyone, all the Members of all the parliamentary groups who have shared this stage with me in one way or another, and all of you, all of you, I wish you all the best personally. On the political side, we will see, but on the personal side I wish you the best. I would also like to thank the people who do not see themselves in Parliament, all the journalists, the lawyers, the ushers, the mossos, the maintenance, the cleaning staff, the staff of the dining room, the technical and administrative staff. Without all these people, we, the Members of Parliament, could not do our job. I would therefore like to extend an extended thank you to all of them for the good treatment we have always received in these years. And what about my team? We are not a parliamentary group, we are a team, a team of brave, honest, hardworking people, who fight every day for freedom, for democracy and for having a Catalonia for all Catalans. I want to thank all of you who are here and those in the offices. It has been a real honour to be the president of the best parliamentary group – I am convinced – that this Parliament has had. And also, of course, Carlos, Lorraine, thank you so much for taking on this challenge. I leave the group in very good hands. I'm just saying that some people were very happy when Albert went to Congress and then came what came. You are certainly going to continue to defend the work that has been done in Parliament. I, of these years, take moments that I will never forget and friendships that I will have forever. But this Parliament reflects what Catalan society is experiencing, and this Parliament reflects the social confrontation and social division generated by nationalism. The process has done a lot of damage to Catalonia, and that has been reflected in its legitimate representatives that we are here in Parliament, and here we have experienced the darkest stages of Catalonia's democratic history, when a minority of people in Catalonia wanted to pass through a majority of Catalan citizens. We have been here at the foot of the cannon, comrades, enduring, enduring, leading, being the voice of millions of Catalans, but this Catalonia and this country were much stronger than some believed. The trial will continue to hurt, but we will continue to have the voice of the Catalans here to defend us. And I'm going to Congress of Deputies to form the alternative to the next government, because Citizens, who many believed would disappear after having three deputies, will rule Catalonia and rule Spain, and we're going to form an alternative so that that dream that many of us had when we first came to Catalonia will be fulfilled again. And today I'm going to show you the last sign, Mr. Torra. Will you let me get fired? Because, of course, I got up this morning and found this at the door of my house. [[The speaker shows a picture.]] That yellow link that you use and place everywhere, we often find in our private homes those who fight for freedom and democracy. As this not only happens to me, but it happens to hundreds of thousands of people in Catalonia, as I have done with all my colleagues in Parliament, we will continue to defend them. Because nationalism, comrades, has always been very difficult to deal with if it has always been very hard to fight against nationalism; but I promise you, this time too, it will be worth it again. And I want to say to all the people in your house who are sad and worried, suffering from nationalism, who are not alone, who will have us strong here, in Parliament, and in the Congress of Deputies. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.39.0	I allow myself to wish you all the luck in the new stage to the Members who today leave us. We're still on the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into Europeanism]] [[302-00097/12]] The next point is the motion following the question to the Government on Europeanism, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, Mrs Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.40.0	Thank you. It is not easy to start after the adoptions, but it is nice after the adoptions to talk about Europeanism, talk about Europe, talk about a reformed Europe, a better Europe, a Europe based on values, which is a Europe that certainly many of those who are here in the hemisphere fly. But it is also true that there is nothing more anti-European than skipping the laws. Here, as in other places, we have to say, you skip the laws, and that's mostly the separatist parties. They did not only do so on 6 and 7 September 2017, but still, insofar as they do not give up the unilateral route, they continue to jump one of the main values of the European Union, which is respect for the state of law. But it is that they are following it, and I would also like to answer a tweet in their parliament of Councillor Bosch, which as a result of this young man says to us: « Let them know – the people of Ciutadans – « that we will not stop explaining the reality of Catalonia to the world. Well, it's not explaining Catalonia's reality to the world. What is done with separatist action, what is done with relations with the European Union is separatist propaganda, is party ideology. As far as respect is concerned, the Catalan law of external action and relations with the European Union is not respected. It is clearly stated that there can be no discrimination on grounds of reason or political conviction. It is clear that what you explain to the world does not respect and discriminates against the opinions of this gang of the hemisphere. Therefore, you still feel a lot of anti-Europeans not respecting the state of law and not giving up the unilateral path, which I think is also very important. We like to build bridges. You separatist groups like to lay walls. When some Members of this chamber say: "There must be a wall between Catalonia and Spain, it is to lay a wall between Catalans, it is to lay a wall between European citizens. When Puigdemont says: "The European Union is a club of decadent countries, we disagree. We believe that the European Union is a time of freedom and hope, that we must work, that we must involve ourselves, in its parliament, here in the Parliament of Catalonia, but also in the European institutions. We would very much like to see Catalonia one day look at the Mirall and see the best reflex in Europe. We've got a lot of gain. This moment has not yet arrived, comrades, it has not arrived; but I would like it – I hope it will come, and I think it will come –, that one day Catalonia will look at the wonder and see the best reflection of Europe and will also count on all these visions and all these opinions that are also in this song of the hemisphere. We also want from this Parliament to be famous and to give support to May 9 as a day feast, to be able to claim, to be able to make joint actions within Europe, and to demand the vote affirmed in this sense. And I can't imagine a project more revolutionary, more suggestive, more attractive at international level than the European project, which contemplates the rights of European citizens. I also take this opportunity to wish the European candidates, Matías Alonso, that I hope you will soon be in the European institutions, that you will give, that you will give our vision to Europe, and that you will also... [[Greetings.]] I also take the opportunity to wish the Members of this House and the Members of this House good day to Europe. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.41.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, and to position herself on the issues, has the words of Congresswoman Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.42.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Members and Members, in the first place let me begin by congratulating everyone on the Day of Europe, recalling that the European Union has endowed us..., it has provided us with the period of longer time of pau, of prosperity, of democracy, but it is still certain that we must continue to move forward, that we need to move towards a more social Europe, which addresses with determination inequalities, the poor – especially the poor child – ; a more democratic Europe, more compromised with its very founding values, solidarity, respect for human rights, and that, therefore, it is on the rise of challenges such as the demand for asylum for people who simply flee from the family, from war or from conflict. Therefore, we need much to move forward on this more social and federal Europe than we would like. And we would like this day, effectively, to be..., May 9th was declared a feast day, a day that is celebrated in the conjunction of the European Union, schools, institutes, places, which is thus allowed to contribute to the feeling of belonging, of European citizenship, and obviously to make visible the civic actions of the European movement, European federalist. In the past, therefore, to strengthen educational programmes which have been successful in intercanvi, such as the Erasmus programme, the European Volunteer Service, or to put forward other proposals such as incorporating into the educational curricula knowledge of the history and functioning of the European Union. Especially, at a time when extreme right-wing parties, which precisely combat European values, are much better off, we must do what we can to defend them and preserve them. And in this case, therefore, it is true that it bears the title of Europeanism, but we have not found these proposals. It is true that it is a text that speaks little about Europe, it is little positive, and a little reaction to the mismanagement that the government has made in the field of external action and, in effect, it is a fact that we see. We regret that no mention was accepted, we regret it, because we think that the texts were much better, but unfortunately, therefore, there was no willingness to accept them or to negotiate. But now, focusing on the motion, it is obvious that the Government of the Generality, like any other government of a Member State or of a regional government, in European terminology, must complete and respect the values collected in Article 2 of the Treaty of the Union: freedom, democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights, and others. But, said that, it does seem quite absurd to me the reference that is to the separatist ideology... that says that it is not about laws or can violate norms. And obviously, the state of law is the best guarantee that neither this nor any other ideology nor anyone is over the law, that everyone is the same before the law, and, more importantly, that everyone also deserves a fair trial. And, on the other hand, in point 3, they urge the Government to respect Article 4 of the Union, which effectively establishes that the Union will respect the national identity of the Member States, but this article, when it continues, says, and underlies it, "will also respect the reference to local and regional autonomy, and that Ciutadans, therefore, if I have left it, of course. And, of course, it's not strange, when what they propose to address the political conflict in Catalonia is a permanent 155, which, at these times, therefore, would be unconstitutional. For what it does to instruments and public resources destined for external action, we share that they cannot be misguided to promote a partisan ideology that only shares a part of the Catalan society or to make propaganda against Spain, as it has been in the last few years, and, therefore, in this instance, we will vote in favour of these resources of external action being destined for what the State of autonomy says they are intended to promote the interests of the country's joint, of the Catalan joint, and not only on the one hand; therefore, economic, commercial, cultural or external projection interests. And, on the other hand, it seems to us that we should also urge the government to present an external action plan. We believe that it is important to know the priorities and objectives of the Government in this very important area, especially at a time when the European Union has many challenges: the financial perspectives, Brexit. And in these cases, then, we find that we lack a well-worked position on the part of the government and more than it can be shared by the forces of this Parliament. And, therefore, it also seems very important to us to insist on the importance of the Government participating in the formation of the position of Spain before the European Union, in defence of the legitimate interests of Catalonia and in the framework of its competitions, as the Government had done and as we have never seen the independence governments. And for what it does to the publication of the agenda of government delegates abroad, it seems to us that it would have to agree with the Law of Transparency and Access to Public Information, but we really doubt whether this implies, therefore, publishing all the tricks, all the emails. And that's why we'll abstain at this point. Now, we do share the opacity complaint, the lack of transparency of the Department of Foreign Affairs, which has not given response to many requests from groups of this chamber, the lack of accountability of many high officials of this Government on the exercise of these functions. And for all this, therefore, we will vote in favour of the reprobation of Councillor Bosch, with the benevolence that he is the most responsible of the department, which has been the protagonist of a few black months of lack of transparency, and hoping that he will take note of it and that he will be reorientated ever since the Government's orientation in this regard. I therefore ask for a separate vote on points 2, 3 and 8, which we can vote together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.44.0	Well, good morning. Members, Members, Councillors, today, May 9, we remember the Schuman Declaration and, therefore, the foundations that led us to build this project, the European project, which is the major project of global political integration; certainly, a project that is produced in confederal claus. At the door of an electoral campaign, we understand that today this should lead us to talk about Europe, about the future we want for Europe. But no, your young lady doesn't talk about Europe beyond the title, she doesn't deal with the subject of funds. Europeanism, like so many other issues that you use, is used to fuel the conflict in Catalonia. And here we won't be able to find each other, because we're in the way of the dialog. You, as always, offer more confrontation and zero abilities to find solutions. And, please, don't give lessons from non-discrimination because of political convictions when in this country we have people engaged in their political convictions. At point 2, you are already beginning to talk about separatist ideology. And at the next point they indicate or say, right? , that respect for national identity is inherent in the political and constitutional foundations of the Member States. Therefore, this association between state and birth. Do you know what that's like? You know what I'm saying, this inseparable association between state and nation? What is it, this ideology? It's called nationalism; that's what you are: nationalists. But do you know what the problem is? Whether their nationalism works with reality, because, like it or not, Spain is plurinational, and this is reality. Look, it's true that Catalonia is not the one that projects this Government of the Generality, that has often forgotten the half of the population; that real Catalonia is diverse and plural, and that this does not project the external action of this Government. Now, it's also true that the Spanish that you're planning on this young man is neither real Spanish, because Spanish, like it or not, is a nation of nations, a country of countries, and that's how they recognize the parents of the Constitution. Therefore, do the favor, you and your colleagues from the PP and Vox, to stop distorting the reality and recognize that Catalonia is what it is: a birth. A nation that we need to see, and we want you to see Europe everywhere that affects Catalan issues. And that's why, in this sense, we proposed a item of item 7, because it is recognized that we understand that it is going to happen through a bilaterality agreement between Catalonia and the State. Because we drink from the tradition of pluralistic federalism, from the federalism of Pi and Margall, from popular Catalanism, and we believe that sovereignty is divisible and can be shared. The future of Europe does not go by being anchored in the states was born, in some structures of the 17th century, but, in the 21st century, the future goes by articulating sobrieties between different scales and levels of government. Miri, the economic crisis is written and financed, but she is reading poor, hard, unequal, dishonesty. Climate change is written, but it reads air pollution, respiratory diseases, flood risk, fire risk. They are just a few examples of global natural problems with clearly local consequences. There are nine answers to these problems. And for us these new responses go through more municipalism and more Europeanism. And that means for us to win democracy. And this is bringing sovereignty closer to the citizenry because we are following citizens and citizens who can actually decide, but at the same time being able to share this sovereignty at European and State level to win rights and to settle, to make Europe put people in the centre and give solutions to problems that are of global nature. We are betting to recover Europe, this Europe that was a dream, a dream of well-being, a dream of equality, a dream of solidarity, and that, in change, the government of the great coalition has turned into a Europe in which we do not recognize each other. It is necessary to recover a Europe that rescues people, a Europe that saves the climate, a feminist Europe, a Europe with more rights and democracy, a Europe that follows the bridge and not the wall, because the wall, the wall we have built, is in the Mediterranean. I'm done. We are critical of government action, external action. And let's tell him, counselor, that his department is also the Department of Transparency, and so, please, let's ask him to try to lead by example and we'll all win, you first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.45.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, and to fix its position, has the word the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.46.0	Thank you, President. Mirin, we do today with strength and radicality in transparency, obviously, and therefore we demand and demand that the Law of Transparency is rigorously completed. Now, what we will not do is work together with repression and with the ongoing attack on the government's foreign policy that you systematically practice as a prosecutor's office in this chamber. Look, what we're not doing is collaborating with your repressive task through your parliamentary action. And, given the trajectory and experience we have of his intervention in this Parliament, we can only interpret his motion in this way. Mr. Bosch's Department of External Action has expressed this concern for many reasons: because of its inadequacy, we do not believe that it is developing a genuinely effective public diplomacy so as to advance in the creation of international conditions that facilitate the exercise of the right to self-determination; we recriminate many things, for example, that it does not exercise real effective and effective control over the external intervention of Catalan companies directly or indirectly in the field of human rights, social rights or environmental rights; we recriminate that its department does not make a definite and clear contribution to the application of the 0.7_percent of the General Assembly's presumption of cooperation, which is capable of ensuring the unconditional and unconditional cooperation of the international community. All this is criminalized, but we cannot participate in more than one of its repressive operations against Catalan foreign action. Escort – and finally – in Europe, you continue to insist on defending a Europe, a European Union that today is an example of a free fall from democracy at international level; a Europe that rescues banks and abandons people; a Europe that is defined and built itself as a wall and an exclusionary border and leaves out and leaves thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of people in time to seek refuge; a Europe that is not inclusive, that is exclusionary; a Europe that creates the extreme right; a Europe with a failed and disastrous external military intervention, going from Yugoslavia to Libya, isn't it? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] In short, we consider that we are ahead of a Europe that does not recognize but attack the right collectius...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.47.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.48.0	...of the people. This is not our European project. What we have to build is another Europe. And, therefore, we will not collaborate with your project.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.49.0	Congressman, thank you. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.50.0	Thank you, President. Day of Europe, good day of Europe, today ; European elections in Spain just over fifteen days from now, but also all the countries of the European Union. We understand and understand an appropriate motion on Europe, but we hoped it would be positive, more to highlight the values of what Europe is and what Europe represents. But after giving the motion presented by the Ciutadans Group some responsibility, we also see it as appropriate, because, yes, Europe does not at a certain time when the different European countries are falling apart between them and not as a willingness to work together between states, cooperation, solidarity, loyalty between states and to precisely achieve peace in Europe. And I think the European Union is doing it more or less. And it is precisely these values that Europe has created that are manifest in this movement, that precisely what it claims and what it does is to denounce all those actions that are fanciful of the Government of the Generality, which under the false label of Europeanism which it does is to go against the values and the principles of which it is Europeanism. Europeanism is solidarity, Europeanism is cooperation and collaboration between states, Europeanism is loyalty to citizens, Europeanism is loyalty to institutions. And that's all the government of the generality doesn't do, and that's what's denouncing this young man. Without doubt the most effective antidote against nationalism is Europe. Therefore, we will give support to this motion, and specifically we will give support to it at the point where the External Action and Transparency Councillor fails – which seems to be a paradox, because if there is something more hidden in this Government precisely it is in the department that manages transparency with respect to external action, certainly for unrecognizable actions – in the Councillor's reproof of all these circumstances.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Ruben Wagensberg has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.52.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, well, Ciutadans presents us today a motion on Europeanism, but in the background, as many other motions that Ciutadans presents us, treats us of the same: to instrumentalize Europe or what it is to delegitimate as much as the Catalan institutions can and to strain society. You don't have a scruple at the time of taking over and perverting the European project – which, I'm telling you, is only perverting – to defend your sectarian and ultranationalist agenda. I'm telling you on the way in, the reasons they put forward to disprove Councilman Bosch are so insulting and so little justified, they practically don't even pay to go in and argue with you. Counselor Bosch has only complied with this government's mandate, and I suppose that's what bothers them, following the path of recovery from Catalan institutions, those you wanted to extinguish with 155. Those delegations that you and the People's Party look so bad to you when you work Catalonia, but they don't look so bad to you when you do another community, and even more, they can be led by a català, whenever Enric Millo is said, it's clear. See, in this motion ask for the compliment of Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union. We are totally in agreement, it is clear that we are totally compromised with the values of Article 2. In fact, in this concrete way, we wouldn't have any ideas. But it is curious that in the writing of the motion of your group, from Ciutadans, you have decided to obviate those points that refer to respect for the rights of minorities, pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between men and women. These writing points have disappeared, vanished, from your young man. The separatist ideology, as the proposal says, which is a false expression that you aim to always embrace, because no, it is neither ideology nor wants to separate anything, which in any case does this movement, the independence movement, is to recognize the existence of a political conflict in relation to the fit between Catalonia and Spain. And precisely on the basis of the principles of freedom, democracy, human rights and pluralism, what they claim is to work so that the citizens of Catalonia, all of them, regardless of their ideology and position on the national question, can freely and democratically express their will. While independence seeks to give sight to everyone, you pretend to silence, suppress and undertake those who do not think like you. Citizens should also read Article 4 of the Treaty better, so that they may see that in the fragment that you refer to this young man is neither directed nor intended to create obligations or impose standards of conduct on actors such as the Generalitat de Catalunya, but that he does so in order to ensure the respect of the European institutions towards the Member States. In fact, the article begins by saying: "The European Union will respect... I think that at this point a mike has become embolized. Besides, I don't know, maybe it was the subconscious, who brings them in, but they omit the fragment related to respect for local and regional autonomy. The young lady asks for more transparency. Very well, in this we are also totally in agreement, the Generality has to publish, for example – as they ask – its official agenda, which is what it does. What you don't tell the law is that you have to publish phone tricks or every email sent, as you ask your young man. So I don't make up any more points, so I can make motions. And another thing that we are used to is doing these long-running motions that sweep a lot of things, among which today we are asked not to appoint imputed persons. They do, of course, referring to the cause of '1 October, because what you do is an early political mindset. Where's the presumption of innocence? There's no political issue, there's no political issue, there's no political issue, there's no political issue, there's no political issue, there's no political issue, there's no political issue, there's no Meritxell Serret, to the Europe that you so defend, is a woman who lives in full freedom. And look if it's clear that yesterday he went to the census so he could go and vote in Belgium. We do not see that you care so much about the accusations of the most corrupt party in Europe, the People's Party, with whom you rule in Andalusia and with whom you expect to rule everywhere, with the support of the extreme right. Look, we will vote against, because you want a Europe that serves to limit the action of your political rivals. We, on the other hand, are betting for a Europe of peoples and peoples, a Europe that is a community of shared rights, a Europe that is a democratic counter-power to economic globalisation, a Europe where free movement is not only for privileges or for goods, a Europe that does not look to another band before State abuses of civil and political rights, a Europe that is guaranteed rights and freedoms. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.53.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr. Francesc of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.54.0	Thank you, President. Deputies and deputies, staff of the house, Laura Borràs, that you haven't left yet and we've already heard from you. Yes, good day to all of Europe. And since we are talking about Europe, perhaps it would be good to start with a quote of what could be the best idea of Europe, which George Steiner wrote, and which he said: "Europe, a sense of doubt, will die if it does not fight for its languages, its traditions and its social autonomy. And I want to start here, because Europe, fortunately, is much more than a market or much more than a club of states. Europe, the Europe we want, is the collective determination that arose after the Second World War to say down to arrests, down to prisons, up to exile, up to ideological persecution. Europe, the Europe we want, is the Europe that bets on democracy, civil rights and political rights. To the idea of Europe, Steiner explains that Europe is the coffees in places all over the continent where people discuss, cry, get angry, share ideas, counter ideas, and, finally, they give their hands and go home to sleep on their bed, with their family, Syracuse, Saint Petersburg, Marseille, Vic, Glasgow, Timisoara, Tromsø, Thessaloniki or Istanbul. The idea of Europe is the idea of democracy, the Europe of sovereign parliaments, its people's sovereignty, its national sovereignty, full of deputies and deputies, legislators and legislators, the obligation of which is precisely to adapt the standard mark to what people claim at the polls. The idea of Europe is that families take a train to travel, to meet, to study, because it should already be taken to a train to go to a prison or to be expelled, because it is a shame to imagine in full 21st century that parents, seas, children and girls take a train to visit a political prison or exile in full 21st century. Europe, the Europe we want, is that continent where every nation devotes part of its effort to knowing and recognizing and dialogue with the rest of European nations, convinced that every people, every language and every accent are essential to being. And if that's what Catalonia does, you bother them. Look, since we're talking a lot about Sant Jordi, I highly recommend that you read the theory of Ecolinguistics, of Carme Junyent, which will be kept this year. It explains that each peril language is a peril for all languages and impoverishes them. The very same one that repeated in this very Parliament the Nobel Prize for Peace, Jody Williams, when in the framework of the Commission on Civil and Political Rights, where you certainly did not watch – civil and political rights, and you did not watch it – said this Nobel Prize for Peace: "When your political prisoners are conculcated with an essential human right, they also do it to me, because human rights are universal. That is why you will always find us in front of you defending this idea of Europe, that of the essential democratic principles, where we see, in this Parliament, in the Spanish Congress, in the European Parliament. We cannot do this in the Andalusian Parliament, where we see the worst face of Europe, the darkest idea of Europe, the list of persecuted, the list of delators, those who pursue those who defend the rights of women and human rights, with their visa, certainly. You, who are not tired of doing the ridiculous before Europe and the world with demonstrations not authorized to Waterloo, who end up with a fine, today you are presenting with a text that speaks of dignity, freedom and democracy. You. You are very brave to search 1,385 kilometers to Belgium, but you are unable to walk further, cross an open door, and talk and talk to the legitimate president of Catalonia. You have made the ridiculous wish to prevent President Puigdemont, Councillor Comin and Councillor Ponsati from running for the European Parliament, because you know that if you run for the polls, we will win, because the ballots, once again, annoy you. I started talking about Steiner and ended up with an appointment of his: "Whatever he doesn't call himself, he doesn't exist. That's why we don't want to talk about the authentic danger for Europe, for the beautiful idea of Europe, those who whiten the ultrathreat, those who want to win the justice that you won't win or win at the polls, those who press and send your political opponent to exile. But we have a lot of bad news for you, we will defeat as many times as any the anti-democratics, the fascism, the faixists, and the ones you hire and deal with, we will defend Europe against those who want it old, white and black, and with very high borders. With the words of President Puigdemont: "Europe and Catalonia will continue and win. I would like you to count us on the evening of May 26th, because we will talk about the municipalities of Europe and we will do it with the ballot boxes. Urnes i Europa, play the house, you know. We'll win, and if you don't see it, you'll win. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the new word the deputy Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.56.0	Thank you. I imagine, Members, that you would agree with me that Catalonia is also Europe. We defend the whole Treaty of the European Union and, therefore, the whole of Article 2, the whole of Article 4, the whole of Article 2, which speaks of values and respect for the rule of law, but also speaks of respect for human rights for all people. I, precisely, at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, therefore, to the students of S' ha Finit! , they will not respect the most fundamental rights such as freedom of expression or right of association. And that's happening here in Catalonia and it's happening here in Europe. And, therefore, we see that here in Catalonia we have to improve a lot to make a Europe much closer to all citizens, also to European citizens who are here in Catalonia. Transparency, to which you have also referred, we believe that it is very important, because transparency is a way to anchor European institutions to citizenship, to European citizenship. And for this Government of the Generality, transparency is not exactly the mark of this Government, but rather the opacity. And opacity is also a way to put walls between institutions and European citizenship. We are European federalists, embrace regional and local autonomy, and we will make it strong in Europe too. And before I finish, President, I would like to say that point 1, which is the Payment report, which calls for the Day of Europe to be celebrated one day, and which was advocated for one of our candidates in the European Parliament, for MEP Maite Payza. I would like to take another opportunity to reiterate a good day of Europe to everyone. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.58.0	To ask for a separate vote, you can vote in block. For one band, 1, 6, 7 and 10, and for another, 8 and 12. [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.59.0	Say it, say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.60.0	El Punt 1, vote it separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.61.0	Point one, all right. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados, say so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.62.0	They could vote together on 2, 3, 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.63.0	I've been asked for the 8th, so we could do 2, 3, 9, and the 8th for another band. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And then on the 12th, yes, yes, yes; I was about to tell you about the block that Mrs. Granados was telling me. We shall therefore vote first on the first point. Before, however, this point was read. Therefore, I will preach to the fourth secretary, Mrs. Delgado, who is reading this point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.64.0	Thank you, President. "Point 1. The Parliament of Catalonia gives support to the initiative of the European Parliament, Pagaza report, of European citizenship, of 12 February 2019, which asks that May 9th, Day of Europe, is celebrated and celebrated to the whole European Union in order to give common visibility to the civic movements and activities in favor of which they unite.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.65.0	All right, let's get to the vote on this point, point number one. The vote begins. This first point was approved by 65 votes to four, with 60 abstentions. Let's now vote points 2, 3 and 9– 2, 3 and 9. The vote begins. Points 2, 3 and 9 were rejected by 41 votes to 73, with 15 abstentions. We now vote on points 6, 7 and 10– 6, 7 and 10. The vote begins. Points 6, 7 and 10 were approved by 65 votes to 64, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the 8th, 8th. The vote begins. The eighth point was rejected by 40 votes to 63, with 25 abstentions. And now we're going to vote for the dot, dot 12. The vote begins. The dot has been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 64 against and 8 abstentions. And now, if we haven't left a chance to vote separately, we will vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the regulation of urban leases in Catalonia's civil law]] [[302-00099/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the inquiry on the regulation of urban leases in Catalonia's civil law, presented by the Republican Group. To expose it has the word has the deputy Mr. Jordi Orobigg. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.66.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor de Justícia, Health Adviser, Counsellor d'Exteriors, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, in this case we address a motion subsequent to the inquiry that in its day we have already formulated in matter of housing. As we explained at that time, there is a real situation in the field of our society, therefore, of dissynchrony with regard to the situation of the housing market, above all with regard to the field of loggers. Terms such as asset real estate, « infrahabitatage, « housing emergence, « touristic habitations, plataforms with Airbnb, Booking, « fuons voltors, « gentrification, is a language that we usually listen to, therefore, in our media and that ultimately only collects a social reality, that is that which this legislative chamber in exercise of its functions must aim to arrange. I'm also in the port of cartels, they're not as mediatic as those of Mrs. Arrimadas, who almost cost a journalist his life before, but in this case I think they listen more to the concerns of our citizens. We can contrast that in the last five years, according to the sources of the Incasòl collected by the Department of Justice, the increase of the prices of the logger to the city of Barcelona..., have increased by 38_per_cent, which in a habitat of seventy-two_metres_squares is translated into 267_euros more per month. We believe that it is our obligation, in this case from our parliamentary group, and obviously asking..., and in that case with a motion approved for this Parliament, that in this case the Government should take the necessary and ad hoc measures to resolve this situation. In fact, the Councillor of Justice already in her day when she appeared before this Parliament to explain what her government program was, made an explicit mention of the department's willingness to make a regulation of urban leases. And we think it's essential to do it. Why do we think it's essential to do that? Because the history of the regulation that the Spanish State has made – therefore, Law 29/1994, the subsequent reform of the year 2013 and the royal decree that has recently been approved and validated in this case at the Congress of Deputies –, in no case gives answer to many of the situations that are planted and that precisely originate these complaints, or to these terms; I insist on: housing emergence, excessive or unorbited increases in the price of the logger. In this case, what they claim, and I believe that it is our responsibility, in accordance with the Statute of Catalonia, is that we exercise a competence which is appropriate to us, such as that of the Catalan civil law, that in this case Article 129 of the Statute of Autonomy specifically establishes the exclusive competence of the Generality of Catalonia in the field of civil law – is it true that in the same regulation today we already have figures relating to leases, huh? , which come to be regulated by this regulatory instrument – so that we obviously address, in this case, from the department, through the legislative initiatives that follow adjuncts, the measures to find this problem. What measures should be taken? In fact, they have already been announced and we are collecting them; therefore, in this case, to establish a term of validity of leases that are longer than those that exist today and that therefore do not give guarantees of stability to our citizens and their families; also to establish, in this case, a limitation of the guarantees that are required at the time of the conclusion of these leases; that the terms of notice, in this case, that between the parties must exist, if their intention is not to extend this contractual relationship, must be more extensive, and, ultimately, a series of measures that are not only called into question in this case by the Department of Justice, but also to call upon the Government in full. And in this case..., and we will probably talk about it later on, but we have had an important consensus with the political formations they promote, mainly from the left, but also from the social democracy, so the fact that all the public administrations are being questioned among all the leaflets find special measures to give an answer to this, yes, a situation of emergence in our social sphere. We believe, therefore, that this motion which has been brought forward in this case for our parliamentary group and the contributions and enrichments which, among all of us, we have been able to rely on will give an answer to this need and which they will do so by means of a regulatory framework, in this case, close to the Generality of Catalonia, of the Government, with the competences which are close to them, both in the field of Justice and in the field of Territory, for which it makes the regulation of prices, but also, I insist, for the assemblies and the differences in locals..., therefore, also to enable them or, in any case, to give them to us because of their competence in these solutions to our citizens. After that, we'll do the evaluation of the elements of the different groups. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, he has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.68.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, we are in an electoral period, I don't know if they have signed up, but if they haven't, reading this motion and listening to the question that preceded it, they can't do the job. They won't tell me that it's certainly not strange that the Republican Group, which gives the government recollection, is asking this government's Justice Councillor and ultimately urging her to legislate on urban leases. And it wouldn't be less strange, if it wasn't for us to be in the election period, that it's from justicia's council of where it's supposed to regulate urban leases, which are part of the housing environment, and, therefore, it would be more logical than those who lead this legislation was the council that has skills in housing. But, of course, we are in the midst of electoral processes, and every one here has to profile, and housing is a very sensitive environment, and the members of this government can't let the opportunity of talking about housing pass, even though it's in a young man's room, who, if I may express it, seems better off to bully the pot than anything else. Let's move on to the young man's background. You propose in this motion a point, that we see you have expanded for the acceptance of some considerations, that urges the Government to promote a proper regulation in urban leases that exceeds, say, the limitations of the existing state legislation. But they don't give us any details of how they want this legislation to be done and how they think it can be done from the modification of the Catalan Civil Code. And here we have to make some reflections. We are told that it is intended to overcome the limitations of existing state legislation; therefore, if it is legislation in different terms, which contradicts state legislation, we will have a constitutionality problem. They know that we have always been in favour of the development of the Catalan civil right, as a living right, and with this will we have participated and participated in the modifications of the Civil Code books. But, by conducting a constitutional and statutory analysis, which I obviously cannot do for some time now, we see clearly that we cannot legislate in the matter of urban leases. And it is that the State has exclusive competence in the regulation of urban leases; it did so in Law 29/94, later amended by the royal decree. Therefore, since Parliament can not approve a rule that contradicts the state regulation established in the LAU. And let's not say this to ourselves, as Parliament's readers say, when in the framework of the annexes of Law 4/2016 they say that this law, which the Government was in charge of, was set up in the field of development, since it did not intend to regulate the lease contract, but to facilitate access to the "living with the modus operandi of loguer, and, therefore, its petition did not exceed the competence of the Government of Catalonia. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, counsel; this is what Parliament's letters say. Therefore, it is recognized that the regulation of lloger contracts was outside the competence of the Generality. From here, our point of view, that what he sought was to coordinate the action of the Government of the Generality with the Government of Spain and to look for the relevant legislative measures that precisely allow limiting the rise of the price of llogry. The Republican Group has not accepted the idea, more likely to seek possible constitutional resources and to profile the government partner than not to seek effective and applicable solutions in the area of housing. The current state legislation has taken a major step in the area of urban leases to reverse the situation created for the regulation of PP governments. The Royal Decree read 7/2019_has meant an important increase in the terms of the contracts to be concluded and a limitation of the guarantees to be provided by the tenants, just to give two examples. He solves all the problems of housing, this royal decree of the law? No; obviously, no. Therefore, you will have to continue working on this line. And it would be good if we all contributed to this work. And I understand that Councilman Calvet, who has responsibilities in the field of housing, has done so. In fact, our parliamentary group has also done so with the meetings that we have had with Councillor Calvet and with the joint work that we have had, to move forward on this path of better housing, aware of the limitations, aware of the problem that exists in housing. Look, it's a real thing that I don't have the will to find solutions to a problem as hard as housing and that I use this topic simply to profile this electoral process that we see. They will not find us in this; they will find us in finding solutions and working together to solve the problems of housing. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.69.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.70.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Yesterday it was repeated one time and another that the local world's motions were electionists; this must be not. You are, obviously you are. And yesterday it was said that it was legitimate to do so, and it is absolutely legitimate also to do so with this topic today; which is probably not real. Yesterday Junts for Catalonia voted against the possibility of limiting the loguers, of asking the Government of the State that the limits, which is where it is now possible to do it; with the majority that there is, it is possible to do it, it is possible to do it. It could have been done in the previous term of the government of Pedro Sánchez if no elections had been called for a blockade of the premises and we had had time to negotiate it well. Finally, the decree was made that it was done, that it is insufficient, and that it must continue to work, because it must be possible to limit the loguers from the reform of the LAU. There is now a majority in the Congress that should be able to do so: there is a majority on the United We can - In Comú Podemos has a pes; there is a majority where the Socialist Party has a pes and, if you want, you can do it, and there is a significant group of Republican Left of Catalonia and also a group of Junts for Catalonia. Then the question is what they will do when this issue is dealt with in Madrid. Left yesterday he abstained, Junts per Catalunya voted against it. So when this issue is dealt with at the very place where you can make the regulation of loggers and limit the price of loggers, what will your groups do there? That's a little question that goes beyond the smoke that this young man supposes. You now have a possibility, between the civil code mark, to unilaterally regulate the loggers of Catalonia, a competence that in principle, now, seems to us to have. The question is why do we have it now and why haven't we had it before? The question is why, so far, has this possibility not been raised, if, really, the emergence of loggers is long ago? If they really think it would be right to extend the loguers, why did we expect a reform to be done in Madrid, if it could be done from here? If they really think that the price increases should be limited, why do we have to wait for fifteen days of the municipal elections, the day the municipal campaign begins, to announce a possibility, which, moreover, I understand is still a student, because we have not seen any paper, no opinion, no legal or legal argument, what does that justify? It's just an idea, it's just smoke. So, we'd like to have more details than we can do right now, which can't be done until now. Exactly, how is the Civil Code theme working? What is the concrete proposal that they are making? No one knows how they think to do it, only they want to do it. Another time, the unicorns. Today, we heard Mrs Artadi speak, speaking of this motion which will be approved, but obviously after the intervention, she could not help but say that what the Government has to do, limiting the prices, that the Government cannot tell the privates how much they have to charge for some loguers. This is limiting the price increase to logger. Tell the private fund investors, not the small individual, the private fund and the investor that they cannot speculate with housing. That's what Artadi said he can't do. Curiously, also the PDECAT in Madrid, a group that has told us that it will vote in favour of our campaign because it is completely agreed to limit the loggers and limit the bonds..., the PDECAT in Madrid has voted in favour of express denunciation, to the golden visa, that the Societies are exempt from taxes, to the reform of the LAU they have abstained, but now, today, it seems that they will vote yes. I'd love to see Councilman Calvet's face right now or when he votes for this young man, because he said he's against limiting the price push and regulating the price push and I'd like to know what face you're putting now. This is Together for Cat. But together for Cat we have to overcome today what he really thinks to vote electorally for a Republican Left Movement, because together for Cat, we don't forget, he's the Republican Left Partner. But, come on, we're positive, or so we think it's really going to be possible, we think we've moved forward accepting that Together for Catalonia will vote for the limitation of loguers. It can be a young man who's smoking, we'll be on the side of every chance there is. If that is true, they will find us; now, let us hope that it is true in what is being said and which will approve this Parliament, because we have already seen it with the housing decree, one thing is what they say, one thing is the words, one thing is the report, and another thing is what they then present as a concrete policy; because the failed and frustrated housing decree of Councillor Calvet and the Government of the Republican Left and Juntas for Catalonia does not guarantee the right to housing and what it did was to liberalize the prices. We'll vote on one thing, then we'll see what they do. We vote today that we want to do it, then we'll see if it can be done. But today they have brought the process to the market and to the regulation of the loguers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.71.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergio Sanz has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.72.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies... This motion suggests that the problem of the increase in rental prices in Catalonia would be solved by regulating rents at an autonomous level. Is that true? No, no, But the Republican Left doesn't care. Everything redirects it towards its goal of turning our fellow citizens from the rest of Spain into foreigners. How do you do that? Seeming discord and seeking conflict. Evidently, the deputies of Esquerra Republicana know that civil law is the exclusive competence of the State. What the Constitution allows is to preserve or modify foreign or special civil law where it exists, but not to extend it to regulate other matters. And they know that because that is also what the Constitutional Court has said. Housing in this motion is the pretext they use to create a new competition conflict with which to continue feeding their victimism. That's his last end. But I want to take the opportunity to tell you a few things about housing policies. The first is that the legislation in Spain is homologable to the regulation that exists in other countries of our European environment. This is not the problem; the problem is investment. In France, Germany or the Netherlands, between 2 and 3 % of gross domestic product is allocated to housing policies. In Spain, whose investment corresponds to the autonomous communities, is below 1_per_cent. A few weeks ago, there was a debate about housing at the headquarters of the College of Architects. All experts agreed that there was a need for a decisive expansion of the public housing park. In France, for example, it represents 17_per_cent over the total housing park; in our region, it does not reach 2_per_cent. This is a differentiating element with the countries in our environment and not the rental legislation. But let us compare ourselves with other autonomous communities. Let's look at the average investment of the six autonomous communities that have grown in population in the last decade, which are Andalusia, Catalonia, Madrid, Murcia, Navarre and the Basque Country. According to macro data, the average investment of these autonomous communities is around 1,15_per_cent of the total budget of the autonomous communities. Do you know what position you hold here, Catalonia? Last one. We are investing around 0.63_percent of the total budget in housing policies. The next community that invests less invests 1_per_cent, that is, we are practically in the middle of the average and, of course, well below Madrid, which is the one that invests the most, with a 1.53. You should be ashamed to talk about housing with this data. But do you know what these figures translate into? In that Catalonia is the autonomous community with the most evictions and in that we are also in line in public housing park. Andalusia manages 80,000 public homes, the Community of Madrid, which has less population than Catalonia, manages 18,000, exceeding 15,000 of which the Generalitat has. Do you want another piece of information? Do you know what, according to the Housing Observatory of the Ministry of Development, is the only autonomous community where the price of housing already exceeds the price of bubble time? Catalonia.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Do you know what all this information indicates? That the Generalitat has managed the housing worse than the rest of the autonomous communities. It has managed worse, because housing policies have not been a political priority for any government of the procedural decade, a decade in which we have seen the budget allocated to housing policies being reduced by two_thirds, while the segregated propaganda bars were growing abroad. And today they bring a motion with which perhaps they intend to excuse themselves for the bad results they present and, already put, they take advantage to sow a forthcoming competition conflict with which, again, they intend to feed victimism. But, despite this, we have tabled amendments to the Republican Left motion, because, from Citizens, we think that this motion is only a separatist pretext that can become a real proposal to solve housing problems. Unfortunately, they have not accepted them, because they have preferred to deal with another group that also needs to justify the bad results in terms of housing, if any, in the City Council of Barcelona. From Ciutadans, we have again proposed to triple the budget and expand the public housing park. Or use the benchmark to create incentives to contain rental prices, but the so-called Republican Left again rejects it. We will continue to insist with our housing proposals and, of course, Ciutadans will continue to point out any attempt by the Government to take advantage of the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.73.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.74.0	Well, in this country, we find ourselves with two realities. For one band, the disproportionate increase in the prices of the logger, an increase also in the prices of purchase of habitat and, for the other band, some subs that have not yet recovered the levels of the year 2000 and a 1_percent of the population that captures 50_percent of the total wealth of this country, 2 denunciations in the hour and we destined, of middle, a 50,5_percent of our minimum wages to pay our habitat. Therefore, this reality is the reality that this government has to deal with. The truth is that the housing policies that this government has pursued have always put at the center the value of change..., to the value of use of housing. What's that supposed to mean? That they have always put at the center this way of speculating with a basic right and not, at the center, the need for this right on the part of the people, in order to have a decent life. So, what do we see? What we see is that they are now bringing us a proposal that talks about regulating the prices of the logger. This proposal necessarily involves overburdening, for one band, the limits and limitations of the legal order and, for the other, overburdening the financial lobby. We're already in a good place, in a perfect place. But what would cynically and hypocritically assemble us is that this is being done for electoral purposes and not for real application. We'll wait one year, two years, to see if this turns into a reality. With the same power, we defended the right to self-determination, overflowing the legal limits and overflowing the lobby. Hopefully, with this, we also have the same momentum and organize ourselves the same way. Very recently, the assemblies of Ripollet, Cerdanyola and Sabadell, with about fifty entities, were presented before the doors of this Parliament to claim the actual deployment of the Law 24/2015; this was not so. For another band, a decree was introduced without the consent of the entities on the part of the Government. Let us hope that, in reality, we can use the combination of civil and institutional disobedience to defend a right as essential as the right to housing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.75.0	Congresswoman, thank you. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, has the word MP Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.76.0	Thank you, President. I'll do some escó, if that's possible. Well, today, you bring us this motion on housing and social housing and you do it in a _marc, obviously, of the municipal election campaign and that, is what practically disables much of the content of this motion, not just by the terms in which it is planted, but, at the very least, by criteria of political opportunism. You raise a motion to overcome and enter another time in a competitive conflict with the Constitutional Court, in order to add to the hardships of this government and, last but not least, of the past, since 2007, in social housing policies. You see, even if you do not complete your own promises, which went to increase living and social housing and, finally, to extend the offer to 2,800 new living places. They have not improved the system of mediation between owners and private individuals; they have not made medium- and long-term policies on social housing and, now, you come here, just before some municipal elections, setting up a motion that is only a pretext for having another conflict with the Constitutional Court; to say that this is the fault of this court, that it is the fault of the People's Party of when it was in the Government, it is the fault of Spain and that, therefore, the Catalans, unfortunately, those who have difficulties and economic precariousness, do not have right and access to the "living," right? And we won't go with them. We won't go with them because, I'm sorry, she's absolutely hypocritical, from a political point of view, to present this young man. And just one example: in November, you, of the same Government of the Generality, decided to reduce one_third of the aid to the Barcelona Habitat Consortium. They did. And a few months later, now, they're presenting us with a young man where they complain and talk about it being the same LAU that restricts their freedom of iron and social housing policies. It is not true: they have a 2007 law that they have not yet developed, that has been approved here, that has stris and instruments. Nor have they created, in these years, the foundation of solidarity that marked this law. They're doing the planning work...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.77.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.78.0	...as long as it's over and I don't apologize to this young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.79.0	Thank you. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.80.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillors, good morning to everyone. To see, in our case, Together for Catalonia we agree with the diagnosis of the problem raised for this reason, in the need to address it and, indeed, to have a specific regulation of the lease contract in the field of our civil law. Indeed, the problem of the increase in the prices of the logger and what this supposes of housing exclusion, therefore, of an important part of the population for income question is something that concerns us all. We must say quite clearly, unlike what the Socialist Group has put forward in a more civilized way, and from the Ciutadan Group in a directly unconstitutional way, that this Parliament has exclusive competence to preserve, modify and develop the Catalan civil law, which is in the context of this legislative proposal for a lease agreement that we are talking about. Therefore, if they really defend self-government, they should be the first to collect this legislative development. We must, however, make some observations that need to be taken into account. We agree that it should articulate measures that contribute to generating a trend of containment of the prices of logger yields, which have been increasing in a particularly important way in Barcelona and the metropolitan area. Doubts are reasonable in that it restricts the prices of the logger, and we are supporters of instruments, which have developed up to now, of the indexes of reference, which should inspire us to articulate measures of stimulation and application, for example, of fiscal nature, with exemptions of taxes, or taxes related to habitats. We will see to it that in the legislative process of measures on this area we overcome these doubts and problems that we initially see. This is a key issue that we need to focus on well, precisely for its effectiveness... the measures they claim to be. We believe that these measures should not pass through a rigid price limitation to what an logger can pose, for some reasons that we are now exposing. The majority of dwellings that are owned by physical persons and not by entrepreneurs. Therefore, we have to take into account the reality of the housing stock that is to be found. The fact that between the year 90 and the year 2015 there was a drastic change in the rules of the property in Barcelona is obvious. Vertical ownership assumed more than 53_per_cent of the dwellings in the year 90, while 2015 was only 30_per_cent. In change, the hortizonal property has gone from a little more than 40 year 1999 in Barcelona, to gathering more than 70_per_cent year 2015. Therefore, the latest data available indicate that 2018 year the hortizonal property supplies to the market 74_percent of the contracted habitats, and the vertical one only the remaining 26_percent. This shows a reality, that the majority of immovables that can enter the market are the property of physical persons, and, therefore, that in their decision to set up housing they weigh many other factors different from profitability, which obviously seek those engaged in business activity. Therefore, the risk of speculation with the prices of the logger to search for profitability is lower than you think, considering that the natural person places the habitat to logger in order not to obtain a profitability of type of business, but a supplement of income to allocate to different expenses, it is in many cases the complement of the pensions of people in which the habitation that is housed is the fruit of the estudive of all life, or to help in the payment of the mortgage of the usual habitation. Therefore, we are in a particularly particular market, and therefore we have to take it into account at the time of approaching this regulation. The main problem in Catalonia is the difference between the volume of the offer and the volume of demand. And, therefore, this lack of offer of the lodger has some historical reasons that are well-known and that begin with the firm bet of the Franco governments to enhance ownership in place of the lodger. Therefore, it is necessary to bet on measures that stimulate the owners to put the habitats to logue. And, therefore, rigidly limiting prices does not seem the best idea, taking into account the reality of the park that we have addressed. Currently, the dwellings of logger suppose a 21_per_cent to the State, while the properties are 78_per_cent. Therefore, this is a reality that cannot be overlooked. It is noted that where measurements have been made in this sense, comparative studies have been made of experiences of rigid limitation of lloger, which have taken place in France and Germany, in Paris and in Berlin concretely, so, there the habitatation park is different, as long as the habitats of lloger..., levels of lloger habitats higher than 35_per_cent in the case of France, and 48_per_cent in the case of Germany. And that even all the rigid limitations of the logger have come to imply a disincentive to the offer and even a submersion of that offer. For the last time, just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.81.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.82.0	...in relation to the proposed threat for Citizens, which has been logically rejected: always asking for an increase in presumption, but always maintaining the scan of the fiscal deficit in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, and to pronounce on the papers, has the new word the deputy Jordi Orobig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.84.0	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we know we have the skills, and we'll never give up. Neither this Parliament nor the Government of the Generality are a management, as it seems that it wants to give to hear Mr Sergio Sanz. As far as the PSC is concerned, so, again, a lot of disappointments, Mrs. Ibarra. I think you have to decide what you want to be. If you want to be Pasqual Maragall's PSC, huh? , which claimed the exclusive and full competence of this Parliament to regulate civil rights, or you want to be the PSOE delegation to Catalonia, which has followed the PSC with Mr Montilla. I think you have to decide what you want to do. As far as the commons are concerned, man, satisfied with the transaction, not of the terms with which he expressed himself. To say that this is an electoral proposal... listen, the councilwoman, when she appeared before this Parliament, the first one she did is to tell us that she wanted to influence this regulation. We're talking about almost a year ago. What's the problem? What are policies that complement your words? I'm sorry, the problem... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, clearly, it's just, listen, we're all here to do politics. You can carry motions from the local world; the others, which if from Europeanism – the context: some municipal and European elections – and we cannot carry motions, as a result of an appearance of the councillor of the Government, who says they want to legislate in an environment that affects all the citizens of this country. So, excuse me, we're as political as you are, and we have all the right. And in this case, we logically claim that, in this case, you exist as at least in the area of the Department of Justice of the Generality of Catalonia, so a counselor who already tells us and already gives us knowledge right now that they are demanding the necessary legislative initiatives to make this regulation in the long run. And this regulation, I insist, within the jurisdictional framework of the Government of Catalonia that we will never give up and that, as you know, we will not give up trying to hold the full powers not only in this but in all spheres. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Is it possible to vote on the joint motion? [[Pause.]] Well, let's get to the vote, then, from this young man. The vote begins. The motion following the question to the Government on the regulation of urban leases in the civil law of Catalonia has been approved by 70 votes in favour, 56 against and no abstentions. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 21/2001 of 28 December 2001 on fiscal and administrative measures (debate of totality)]] [[202-00041/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate on the proposal for a law amending Law 21/2001 of 28 December 2001 on fiscal and administrative measures. Before we start... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, ask them that if they have to get out of the hemicicle they do it in silence. Thank you. The fact is that, according to the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen, this debate to the totality will be jointly with the debate to the totality on the Proposition of the Law on Tax Measures in relation to the imposition of capital transfers and documented legal acts presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia and which appears as part of the agenda. First of all, according to Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia will speak in Comú May to present the first legislative initiative of this debate and then the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia will speak to present the second initiative. So, when you do, Mr David Cid has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.86.0	MPs, MPs... thank you, President. They know that our group, during these past months, has tried to place an important debate in this Parliament of Catalonia, which is the debate on taxation. It's a debate that we sometimes have the feeling that in this room it's mandra, huh? We like to discuss a lot of symbol politics, but we like to discuss little of the day-to-day people. And this, the debate on taxation, has much to see, in this case, with the day to day of the people, because at the end of what we are discussing is about inequalities, about the distribution of wealth and, ultimately, about the resources available to the Generalitat to make social policies, to make environmental policies and to make policies also in favor of equality between men and women. Today we present the first proposal for a law that we have registered with our parliamentary group and we do so clearly with the intention that the resources that we raise, those resources that are ultimately resources that at these times are part of the benefits of banking and large banking at the catal and state level, become part of public resources in this case. And, therefore, how it contributes, as I said, to the distribution of wealth and, therefore, also to the struggle against inequality. What we plant, basically, is today the deposit that is paid..., the deposit of documented legal acts, which is paid, in this case, in loan writings with mortgage guarantee, which is of '1,5_per_cent, becomes of 2_per_cent. Above all, to the extent that they have – and I would also like to remind you – filed a claim that together, in this case, the Ribes Assembly, on whether this imposed on it the payment of the clients of the financial entities or the payment of the same financial entities, that is to say, the bank, provoked a controversy, I would say, in the Supreme Court, that I also believe it served to challenge the very credibility of the Supreme Court, and to which interests this Supreme Court responded, but that ultimately caused the Government of the State to see in this case that it was forced to amend the legislation and, therefore, to make it clear that this tax paid the financial entities. What we clearly put forward, as I said, is to increase the amount of this tax and that, therefore, you are assuming an increase in the Generality's recapitulation of 80_million euros per year, 77 and half euros per fund, in this case, of the same Department of Economy. And we do this because we believe, as before, that it is possible to redistribute wealth and we must reduce inequality in Catalonia, which I want to remind you that the result, in this case too, of the concrete policies that the Government of the Generality, the Government of Torra and Aragones, is making, continues to grow in Catalonia, despite the fact that, theoretically, we are in a stage of economic recovery. Banks, the big bank, give us all the pool of citizens and citizens 64,000_million euros of bank bailout; 64,000_million euros that public administrations and, especially in this case, the State, donated to the bank to prevent these banking entities from going bankrupt. And in this case also, I want to highlight, the banking entities, in the first half of the year 2018, have won more than 8,600_million euros in benefits. And also these same banking entities, these first three months of the year 2019, have entered 1,821_million euros more in benefits, despite the fact that there is a reform of banking comptability that surely makes these benefits not appear as onerous as they appeared in previous exercises. But I insist on this: these first three_months, the six main banks at the level of the Spanish State have entered 1,821_million euros. And, in short, we believe that what we are proposing, which is this only half-point increase of this imposition, as we say to the principle, of the imposition of documented legal acts, for which it specifically makes loans with mortgage guarantee, involves very important resources, in this case, for the generality's arches. Someone might think that 80_million euros are scarce resources, but – I'm sure..., I'm convinced that with the Economy Advisor we would agree – in the situation where the Generality is at the level of funding they are very important to give a response, in this case, to concrete policies. I give only two examples. With these EUR 80 million more than we could have, for example, for the year 2020, we could respond to two of the main requests made by our group. For example, that the Generality returned once and for all to finance the hundred_per_cent of the Bressol schools, which are, with the difference that we had in this case with the Government, practically around..., right? , they decided to put 20_million euros to the proposal for assumptions and we claimed 75. And it would be even more possible, for example, to give an answer in this case also to one of the requests that today is on the road, which are, for example, the thousands of students who are demonstrating because they want a drop in university taxes and, in fact, have put in a PSI to give a compliment to what this Parliament has repeatedly approved, that it is a drop of 30_percent of university taxes and that we do not have the highest university taxes in the State. Therefore, these 80_million euros that we want to put on the table, which we want to contribute, in this case, to forming part of the Generality's premise, could, in short, serve educational policies, could, in short, serve social policies, and that we believe they are key. And the tax debate and the debate about the redistribution of wealth, I think it's very important, one of the debates that we have in Catalonia and that we also have in the state. I tell you why he talks many times, don't you? What's an ancient debate about, huh? I believe that in this case it forms part of the debates that have taken place in the European Union and that have also taken place at the international level. The clearest example is also the fact that we have in the United States, for example, with Alexandria Ocasio and the tax on the wealth of Alexandria Ocasio – and then I will refer to the proposal, in this case, of the People's Party. And, as I said, we have put forward different initiatives in the area of taxation; this today is only the first, but we have other pending debates. And one of the pending debates that we also have in Catalonia is on the subject of the IRPF, and we also have a pending debate on successions, on the imposition of successions. I also say this because these days are surprising to see how the Catalan right and the Spanish right, how the Citizens and the People's Party, when it comes to what I would say is a question of minimums, which is that you make them enter more than 130,000 euros at the annual level, contribute a little more to making possible social policies. And, of course, I... I'm also surprised by some of the arguments that are being used at these times. That is to say, I also say it in silver: do not pateixin, or follow, if you surely don't charge more than 130,000_euros, if you don't have a job beyond the Parliament of Catalonia; but, of course, it is said at these times that a person who enters 130,000_euros at the annual level is a middle income or is a popular class... I don't know in which country they live, I don't know in which world they live, but you, in short – I have said it several times and I say it specifically to the Lords of the People's Party and Citizens – it is the parties of the other renders and you are the parties, in this case, also of the financial interests, of the IBEX 35 and of the big bank. Because I don't know how you can justify it, as you are against in this case to increase taxes to those that cover more than EUR 130,000 or are against, for example– or have been against it, because they have not finally dared to present a statement to the totality of our law – that the bank contributes 80_million euros more annually in the assumptions of the Generality. And, therefore, also, I already know that his model is that of Andalusia, which is what you have done, that you say you do not have an agreement with Vox, but you do have an agreement with Vox... You govern, for example, the lords of Ciutadans, in Andalusia with Vox, you govern in this case, too, the PP, and the first thing you have done is to eliminate the inheritance tax for those heirs above 1_million euros. I suppose the middle class too are the 1_million-euro inheritances. And so I already told you once: you are the party of high returns, you are the party, in this case, also of the renderers, you are the party of great heirs, and we also discovered that you were the party of the Dutch, because you defended Uber, that you defended..., Uber, that basically taxes your tickets in tax havens. And I also take advantage – because I only have a turn of intervention – to position myself in this case on the proposal put forward by the People's Party on the asset tax. Miri, I think that in the end you... this project of law forms part of what in the end these days are also talking about, of the tax unicorn. That's to say, you always say that, at the lower of taxes, greater recap. I feel it, but in the last few years in Catalonia and Spain this has never happened – never. That is to say, whenever taxes have been reduced, and especially in the higher classes, the recapitation has always been reduced. The most obvious proof is that when you, for example, had, in this case, to square, under the demand of the European Union, of an excessive procedure of deficit..., Mr Montoro stopped doing what was theoretically his fiscal policy, in short, that of lowering massive taxes, and what he did was..., after all, he had to increase the IRPF, that is, against, theoretically, his liberal postulates. And in this case you are putting forward a proposal for a law that ultimately goes against the sign of time. You say, "No, it's that the estate tax is a tax that should disappear. No, look, what happened is that Mr. Zapatero's what he did was: he bought them his mantra, he eliminated the estate tax, and what he did was that he had to get back, because he had collapsed, in this case, the recap of the State. And you say in this bill of law things that are certainly not. It is to say, for example, on the autonomous tram, Catalonia is not the autonomous community that in this case has the highest type of the rest of the State. There are other autonomous communities that have..., and even Catalonia would have the margin to increase its regulatory capacity and increase on its tram, in this case, the property tax. We're not thinking about it at this point, but you're the one who's thinking about it, in the end, it's the opposite: you're going back to claiming that you're getting the most out of it. And I'm telling you, this is against the sign of time. The debates that are taking place at the international level are at odds, even before the situation of inequality and the struggle against the climate change that we have around the world. For example – and there is reference before – Mrs. Ocasio is raising at the level of the United States..., there is a great debate about the need to generate more public resources to fight against the Green New Deal, and Mrs. Ocasio, for example, the one who has raised to the United States does not cease to be a species of property tax on the fortunes they have more than 10_million euros at the level of the United States, which they want to pay a 70_per_cent in taxes. So, look, if I tell you, if they're more moderate, and even more so, in this case, than the American Democrats! And I fully agree with what Mrs. Ocasio is proposing. And, in fact, I think that tax policy will ultimately have to go here, because if we want to face climate emergencies like we have at these times, more than empty declarations of content or more than laws that, in this case, the Government of the Generality that do not serve for anything else, we will need resources to make a fair economic transition. And we, for example, in this case, at the level of the State, are also setting up a new green tax that will raise assets of more than €1 million with a 3_per_cent. And I think the trend is going to be here, because if we don't, we won't have resources, in short, to cope with the climate change. And I'm done with this, too. Miri, it can't be mass and repicious, that's to say, it doesn't work. That is to say, I don't understand how you can claim, for example – because you also do – more social policies, more resources for public education, more resources for public health, more resources for universities and, at the same time, that all your fiscal policy basically follows, in this case, the reduction of taxes. That doesn't work. I mean, I already know you're Laffer's raven fans, which you explain is: at lower tax pressure, at higher tax cuts, more recap. This didn't work and it never worked. That is to say, every time there has been a tax rebate, and especially to which you defend, which is to the great heritage, to the great heritages and, in this case, also to the great returns, always – always, always – has reduced the tax refund. And that happened in Catalonia. And the clearest example is, for example, his reform of the estate tax. You agreed to a reform of the estate tax, which, I would say, basically disproved the estate tax of Catalonia, with Mr. Mas. And it collapsed, in this case, practically recapturing the estate tax. It is true that he was later timidly corrected by the later government, in this case of the Republican Left and Convergence and Union. So, or so, I believe that empirical evidence shows that your fiscal policy, as much as they say it works, doesn't work, and the most obvious proof is that, when you need resources..., I turn to what I gave it: it is to say, if not, that Mr Montoro theoretically applied a fiscal policy that went against his ideological postulates? Mr Montoro is that he did not only push in this case also, for example, the IRPF tax; it is that, as you say, as Mr Rajoy said, they pushed the VAT to the shots, or so, they also dismantled, for example, a policy like that with VAT and massively pushed the tax on consumption. Therefore, in the end, we will give support to the totality presented in this case by the groups against the proposal to modify the capital tax and, obviously, we call on you to forward our proposal for a tax on the bank. We believe that it is just and necessary, in this case, to increase the tax paid by the large banking entities in Catalonia, above all to obtain more resources to fight against inequality, to reduce the poverty and to promote social, educational and health policies in Catalonia, which we lack, as we see these days with all the mobilizations we have, of firemen, teachers and, ultimately, of all the social collectivists, who claim a government that makes social policies. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.87.0	Thank you, Mr. Cid. [[Proposition of the law on tax measures in relation to the taxation of capital transfers and documented legal acts (debate of totality)]] [[202-00051/12]] Then does Congressman Santi Rodríguez have the word, for a time of... two minutes, Mr. Rodriguez? [[Pause.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.88.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my intervention in a little usual way; and I do so courtesy, Mr. Cid, and I emphasize, Vice-President: I am directly referring to Mr. Cid. And I do so because you have the opportunity to ask for a return for comments when we finish the debate, preferably to give you time to read the law proposal that we have put forward. Because, just's, it doesn't go from the asset tax, it goes from the asset tax, which has absolutely nothing to do with the asset tax. [[applause]] , which is about what you just positioned. Therefore, consider it a courtesy. As we continue the debate, you have time to read our proposal for law and take a serious stand on this respect. I want to start by making three considerations, three considerations in relation to the two propositions of law, which we may have read, eh? Three considerations. First, taxes are not neutral – taxes are not neutral – taxes have an interrelationship with many other aspects, have an interrelationship with economic activity, and also have an interrelationship with government receipts, in many ways; but they also have an effect on prices, on prices of things, and, as we put the taxes on certain products, consumers will end up paying more for those products, because businesses that they usually do are transferring costs to prices, because if they don't, they don't want businesses, they are serious NGOs, and NGOs, therefore, are not in this situation. But taxes, too, as far as the price is concerned, also have an effect on people's consumption decisions. And generally, as the prices increase, it reduces the consumption of that product that has risen, with some exceptions, but I don't think it's the case with a microeconomy class right now, right? But that's usually the way it is. Second consideration: the market of housing. We are living at a time when the situation of the housing market..., a few years in which the sale of housing has decreased a lot, is recovered very little by little, surely fruit of all the consequences of the crisis situation that we have gone through since 2007-2008, and what has increased in a very remarkable way – and we know this and we see it because it is a topic that we frequently talk about in Parliament – is the demand for housing to be registered. And this has caused the price of the logger to increase in a very important way. There is who bet to try to intervene on the priests. We believe that the most appropriate mechanism is not so much to intervene on the priests, it is not people to intervene on the priests, but to make economic decisions that precisely facilitate access to housing and make the priests lower. It is to say, if we take measures that are done to deal with mortgages or to deal with the housing of purchase, then this will surely drive consumers out of the purchase at the time of the auction and, therefore, continue to "squeeze the prices of the auctioners. If, on the other hand, we take measures that allow us to reduce the costs of buying, surely this will allow us to move consumers asking for loggers to buy, right? And, therefore, as I said before, taxes are not neutral; depending on how we play with taxes we can do one type of policies or we can do another type of policies. Third consideration. I have said, we have had some inquiry in this very House regarding the competitiveness of the Catalan economy, and we have specifically spoken on various occasions about the fiscal competitiveness of Catalonia. And we have come from different studies that have been published in relation to the fact that Catalonia is the least competitive Spanish community from the fiscal point of view, that is, the one with the highest taxes, and there is some other report – the General Council of Spanish Economists, that every year publishes the panorama of taxation in the community – in which, in the majority, Catalonia we are the first in this sense, we are the ones with the highest taxation, we are the ones with the most taxes and we are the ones with the tax types of those taxes in which we have the highest regulatory capacity. And therefore, as we believe that this is not a good thing for the Catalan economy, it is not a good thing for the Catalan society, which we are also trying to correct this situation. I can understand that, for some groups of this chamber, their main concern is the benches; I can understand that, for some groups of this chamber, the main concern is the Generality entries. Listen, for us, the main concern is the joint venture of society – it's the joint venture of society. And here there are no elements that go side by side, because the generality's receipts come from the taxes paid by the company's joint venture; the problem of housing, the joint venture of the company. Therefore, we want to focus tax law proposals not thinking about banks or thinking only about the Generality tickets, but thinking about the company's joint venture and thinking about how these tax changes affect the company's behaviour and behaviour. And here we come to position ourselves in relation to the..., to present the... And now, Mr. Cid, you can stop reading and I'll explain to you what our proposal is; then you can continue with the proposal, if you want, right? What we do today is: in the tax of heritage transmissions, which is the tax that records the habitats that are not us, that are taxed with VAT, we have the highest types of tax in all of Spain. With general character, 10_per_cent. Let's include 11_per_cent in the case of immobile benefits valued at more than 1_million euros. It's one of the highest in all of Spain. And what we're saying is, "Listen, let's go back to a normal level, let's go back to a medium level. And the average level of all communities is in 8_per_cent. And this is the first proposal we make: moving from 10-11_per_cent to 8_per_cent. But then there are particular cases – particular cases. When you're living in protection, you're charged to 7_per_cent; so we ask you to reduce it to 6_per_cent. When they are common habitats for nomadic families, for under thirty-two years of age or for persons with disabilities, habitual habitation, we also ask to reduce it from 5_per_cent to 4_per_cent. And we add another aspect, because the law, which originated in the year 2001, sets a topall of income, which in 2001 was a topall of income of thirty_ thousand euros– 2001. But this is 2019, and the income topall hasn't changed – the income topall hasn't changed. Therefore, it means that, when we pass, we expel citizens who may be attached to these reduced types of possibility to gather there. And that's why we also modify this income top, to update it, it's to say..., and put it in 45.000 euros, as well as at most, to be able to stick to these reduced types. This is the proposal we have from the table. We are not talking about yields of more than 130,000, or less, or I don't know what or not... The difference between you and us is very clear: you want to push taxes to everyone, to the lower returns you have already done, because in Catalonia we are the Spaniards who pay the most tax on income, the taxpayers of less than thirty thousand euros, who are 80_percent of the taxpayers, we are the ones who pay the most of all Spain for the decision of this very Parliament, and when we present proposals to reduce the tax to the taxpayers who have the least returns you vote against. Well, so it's two philosophies: you want to push taxes on everyone, we want to lower taxes on everyone, and above all – above all – to lower taxes, 80_percent of the population. And in relation to Possão's proposal on the tax of documented legal acts, which we treat together, because it is not the same tax, they are variants: the tax of heritage transmissions and documented legal acts is the same thing, and between this thing and these variants. And what you're proposing is: under the default argument of saying how this tax is now paying the banks, so we're pushing it; the mortgage credits, from '1 and half to 2_per_cent. Well, it's just that once this tax pays the banks, it's been seen that the first consequence is that the mortgage price has risen. And that's good? For consumers, not – for consumers, not – because it is complete what I give to the principle: taxes are not neutral and companies do what they do is to transfer costs to the price. And, therefore, it is a failure that, if we increase the tax, the banks will pay it. No, if we increase the tax, it'll be paid by those who understand housing, and we'll make it harder for them even though they understand housing. Therefore, we disagree with the proposal you are making. Now, just's, we haven't introduced them to totality. Do you know why? Because we want it to be debated. But I've already advanced it: we'll present a statement. Not to reduce the tax, no; to delete it, to remove the tax of documented legal acts in the case of mortgage loans. It's simple: to delete it. Why? I think I've already given him enough arguments why we should consider it. But it's that, besides, it's fixed that I'm raining on a woman – raining on a woman – because with the Decree Law 6/2018 that brought the government what we've already done..., if they want, with naivety, eh? ; then we believed that, well, "now the banks will pay for it, that's what. And what was done was to remove the reduced types in cases of protected habitats and in cases of habitual habitat for children aged 30 and persons with disabilities, it was removed those types, and the tax type went from 0.1 to '1.5 in one case and from 0.5 to '1.5 in one case; that is to say, in both cases it pushed this tax. That, I insist, as demonstrated a few months later, this increase in taxes has ended up having an impact on the price of mortgages and, therefore, it pays the bulk of citizens who make the decision to acquire habitat. Therefore, I have defended our proposal for a law on the taxation of capital transfers; we have positioned ourselves on the proposal of Podemos in this sense, in the sense of the discrepancy respect what they propose, but with the opportunity of being able to suppress this tax in order to end the discussions with regard to whether this supposes increase or not increase of mortgages. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.89.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, in order to present the message to the totality presented for the Socialist Group, has the word Ms.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.90.0	Good morning, everybody. Counsel, Vice-President, well, with these two proposals of law that appear today, two counterposed tax models are shown: one is a model, a fiscal policy, a tax model that wants to be more just and progressive, and another, that pretends to be regressive, that favours indirect taxes on direct, that is, that we all pay equally, have more or less, and so long as it is, in some way, always harming families or the most vulnerable. As you, therefore, can already imagine, we share the first model. We also spend a lot of time in this Parliament putting forward tax proposals to reform the Catalan model, which is more just and progressive, than paying who has more, who inherits more, who pollutes more; but the truth is that we don't get out and there's no way that when we bring a proposal on this line, the government and the groups that support the government, so they are collecting our proposals. In any case, today we have two very different proposals. It has also been said many times in this Parliament that the fiscal pressure in Catalonia – also, somehow, said Mr Rodriguez – is high and that here we pay more taxes than I place. And when one compares with Europe... because I understand that we want to compare with Europe. I always want to compare myself to what is better than me, who dedicates more investment to education, to the environment..., I don't want to compare myself to what is worse; if not, we never move forward. So I'd like to think that we want to compare ourselves to Europe. And if we compare ourselves to Europe, then a view that the Spanish fiscal pressure is at the top of the European countries and that it is around 32_percent, between six and eight points per cent under the European media; therefore, fiscal pressure is enough under the European media. And if we compare ourselves, for example, with the submerged economy and tax fraud, which is one of our tough problems, so we're between the second and the third place in the race; by the way, huh? While we are at the bottom, in our fiscal pressure, it turns out that in the submerged economy and in the fraud we are in the high strip. And, therefore, at these times, what is happening in this country is that we pay less taxes than in Europe, we have more defrauders than in Europe and we have more submerged economy than in Europe. And, therefore, what would be hot, with these data and this little analysis that we can do, you can say to him "simplistic, is to review the tax model of the State, which I believe is not ours here and, therefore, there is a congress of the Members who are about to form and do so, and in fact who won the elections just a few days ago brings in a tax reform plan. And here, too, it would be good to do this, and we do not get out, the groups that obviously, so, at these times, we do not have the majority of Parliament to do that. There is a clear discrimination so much to the State..., but it is also reflected here, of a taxation that still supports the returns of work over returns of capital. And this is a very clear reality, and therefore, it is the workers' sacrifices, as always. During the crisis... we have not experienced many, crisis, but at the end of the day Ishan's efforts have been to the workers. And I want to remind Mr. Rodriguez that when Mr. Rajoy arrived at the Government of the State, the first time, I say, after the Government Zapatero, the first one he did is push the IRPF – the first one he did –, pushed the IRPF to middle classes and workers, and what he did is push the VAT, an indirect tax, that we all pay the same, in one hundred and fifty or in one twenty thousand. So, of course, coming here to tell us what to do, when you first did it at a time of crisis, where you would have to strengthen the state of welfare, education, sanitation, pensions, it's just the opposite, lower taxes and, more importantly, carry the fiscal pressure on those who are going through the most difficult..., so I don't know if it's really the model we want for the country. Obviously, it's not my model and I don't think it's the model we want for an advanced and modern European country, now that we're in the middle of a European election and that we're all keeping the mouth of so much Europe, right? So maybe we could look at her from this point of view. We want a country that strengthens the welfare state, and to strengthen it we need more resources. You said, Mr. Rodriguez, to Mr. David Cid: "You want more tickets for the Generality, as if that were painful. We at least want more resources. There are other political groups that have put themselves to the butxaca, the resources. We want more resources to strengthen education, to strengthen sanitation, to make infrastructure; that's why we want resources. And we want to maintain a welfare state that has weakened partly because of the People's Party, which governs the State has made indignant – indignant – retails, which have clearly harmed the working class and which oblige in many cases – not the working class, which cannot; the benevolent classes, which can be allowed –, so to have private pensions, private education, private sanitation. This is not our model; we want to guarantee equal opportunities for everyone. Looks like it's not the model you're chasing. Because lowering taxes and collecting less and having fewer tickets, you will already explain to me how you can maintain a welfare state, that what we should do is strengthen it. So, Mr. Rodriguez, your proposal goes here; it goes in this line in the sense of what they always plant, right? , that's this tax drop because it is. I also have to say one thing – very discontextual –: clear, bring this proposal here today I think you are populist, in part, because, clear, you say: "Home, clear, lower the tax on capital transfers to the most vulnerable people, to young people, to the disabled..., man, this you cannot vote against. Home, if you bring me here, decontextualize, that, just... But that's not how they do things. And we need a general, global debate on taxation. And, therefore, in a global debate we cannot gather this. Especially because you're using some argument that it really costs us to share, right? You say, "Listen to me, or I'll ask you, won't you? : "When you come to the state government and you're making this downfall of the IRPF... – ai –, « and you're making this rise of the IRPF, this increase in VAT – I ask you – « why didn't they make an increase in corporate tax? Or why don't you come here and offer us the restoration of the estate tax for the great fortunes? You're the one who could've made this offer, too. In change, it does not, because you are defending, not all the citizens, as you have told us here a few moments ago; you go to defend a part of the citizens, those who in a better economic position are – and I no longer tell the powerful, that I will then enter. But in part that's what you do. So don't tell every citizen; every citizen isn't true, because, if you don't, you'll be raising and betting..., investing in education and investing in sanitation, and, in change, you come here with a populist proposal to lower taxes in an ally way that we think doesn't bring us anything else, on the contrary, allows us to generate fewer tickets to keep this situation going. And in the presentation of your motto, as an argument for making this proposal to lower the capital transfer tax, which, of course, the price of housing is very high. Home, what do you tell me, Mr. Rodriguez, that the year 1998 Mr. Aznar, huh? , great president of the State, approved a law of the only to liberalize it, ubiquitously urbanizing all the lands made and to exist; that, according to the data – and not ours, eh? , data from the Ministry of Development at that time–, year 2001 the average value of urban land taxation increased by 157.58_per_cent, in those three years succeeding year 98 increased the price of housing by 53_per_cent! Home, may you come to us here and say: "Oh, the price of housing is very much because! Home, so in part began year 98, when you approve of a law of the sole that liberalization and that generates some increases in the prices of brutal housing, as these data say. And look, that Mr. Married in this election campaign – which has not gone too well for him, for sure – has explained that he would like to return to that proposal for the liberalisation of the soil and that, listen, to the urban land that is to be done is to provoke habitat so that in rural areas there are people, as if this was the solution because the people with the most difficulty because the people stayed there to live..., the solution was to make habitat. So, Mr. Rodriguez, ull. Actually, if you are so concerned about people and worry about why the most vulnerable people can buy housing, I make some proposals to them: that you collect at the Congress of Deputies the increase of the minimum interprofessional wage, the increase of pensions, more social housing – that's what they should do, more social housing, if we want vulnerable people to have access to housing–, to eliminate or not to have approved that labor reform that generated poor workers. Or go on, many proposals, very many, there is, because people can access a decent habitat, but do not lower a concrete tax here, in order to explain that you are so much concerned and so much concerned about the people. I also have to tell you something, which I read very well your proposal: you lower the types, but listen to me, why the general type the down of the god on the eighth and changing in the sheltered habitat only the down of the set on the sixth? That's to say, the general down two points and protects only one. Home, I think that who can access protected habitat is the most difficult people; maybe we could lower it a little more, this tax, because they are the most vulnerable people and families, and in change you lower two points in the normal, say, in general, and, in change, only one point in the protected habitat. He'll explain it to me. I am also surprised that... we have tabled a motion to the whole, obviously, in this proposal to modify the tax on capital transfers; I have already told you, we are against this in the face of a deeper debate. We are also surprised that the Republican Esquerra Group and Juntes for Catalonia have presented it, because they do not want to make a tax reform here in Catalonia. The truth is that they don't help us make this reform because they pay more who has more, who inherits more, who pollutes more. We do not see, Mr Aragonès, a reform with IRPF, nor with successions. For now, green taxes don't appear either. And, therefore, we will be pleased to listen to your groups exactly what they explain to say that they have presented this message to the totality, because you vote many more times with the People's Party and Citizens, which was angry listening to Mr Cid, which not with the Socialist Group or with the group of the commons, is to say that, you see, I am looking forward to listening to his explanations. On the proposal of the commons. We agree, obviously; we have not presented the message to the totality. Look, it's also nice to listen to some MPs defend the benches. Bans are obviously necessary, but, of course, this defense so attached to our benches surprise us. It is true that in November what happened with the Supreme Court passed; Pedro Sánchez took the initiative that the Mortgage Law is changed; it is now that the new law comes into force with which all mortgage expenses come to be made from the banks, except taxation and a few copies of the scripts; in general, the banks, it is true. And, in this, the proposal that the commons make is to say: "Well, then the tax that the banks have to pay, in accounts of being of the '1,5, which is on the 2. It's a reasonable enough increase. Listen to me, a long time ago let's blow 60,000_million euros to the banks, 60,000_million euros needed, let's not say no, but the Banc d'Espanya said in November 2018 that, of these, 43,000_million euros gave them for losses. We have raised the banks, we have helped the banks, why can't we ask them to the banks, in their policies of social responsibility, for example, that they don't increase the mortgages for the fact that there is this change in mortgage reform? It's that I listen all day to the benches that make foundations, that collect many good causes, it's true, the RSO, etc. So the best thing they could do to make social responsibility is when a mortgage law is changed and it's up to them to pay the mortgage expenses, which is ultimately their product for which they benefit a lot, which is not that mortgages are given, go, I say..., so the least they could do is keep – keep – the prices they had. Therefore, Mr. Rodriguez, I would also suggest to you that, in the accounts of coming here to say: « Home, poor banks, we press the taxes..., I would say to you: « Why don't you sound like the banks and tell them: " Home, after this mortgage law reform, why don't you hold on to the mortgages and make an effort as many families have done during all this time of the crisis?" To whom we have helped, to the benches... And, therefore, I think it would be no more than banks making no increases in mortgages and returning to society where we have donated them, which are a lot of money. Needs? I'm not saying no, but I think this would be fine, too, and it would be part of their corporate social responsibility. Miri, besides, he doesn't... go, I don't feel sorry for him, and my parliamentary group, neither. The year 2018 CaixaBank has had the greatest benefit of its history– the biggest benefit of its history– and Banc Santander has had an increase of 18_per_cent in its benefits: 7,800_million euros; sum that has won the Banc Santander in this 2018, sum, which the whole bank won in 2013. That's to say that the benefits are increasing absolutely. We don't seem to ask them to pay 0.5 more in the form of legal documents as a crime; all the contrary, I think, for social responsibility and for the return to society of what we have all given, they should do so. I, miri, to pose another counterposed dice, huh? This is EUR 7,800_million; EUR 16,600_million won the bank the year 2018 in benefits. Do you know what income is available for habitation? 31.411. Do you know what income is available in Catalonia per person? 12,712. I think we can ask for a little more effort on the benches and not always carry it all to the citizens, who suffer a lot, not only the taxes that the People's Party has pushed us, but we suffer the degradation of public servants with the details that the People's Party has done to the Government of the State and, unfortunately, also, that the Government of Convergence and Union has done, collected for the Republican Left, also, in Catalonia. Therefore, a thought to the absolute totality of the model of the People's Party and its proposal and all the support for the proposal made by the commons because who else has, who more wins, who more benefits do a little more effort for the benefit of everyone. This is corporate social responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. All the same, to present the message to the totality presented jointly for the groups of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra, has the word, for the Republican Group, Mr Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.92.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President... Well, today we face a debate of two proposals of law on the same tax, as Mr Rodriguez has well recalled, on the imposition of property transfers and documented legal acts. And, on the one hand, we have a proposal by the People's Party to obsessively reduce the government's revenue from the Government of Catalonia and, on the other hand, a proposal by the commons to raise an increase in taxes. In general terms, when we talk about economics, we try to position ourselves in an intermediate space between the various extremes, and we like to promote and participate in policies and spaces that give maximum consensus and especially in a matter as sensitive as fiscal matter; a matter where electoralism is very little recommendable and the citizens usually aggravate a certain degree of stability and rigour. However, in the debate that we are holding today's position – and hardly weighing it on Mrs Romero – it is much closer, practically identical, to that of the group of the commons, as we have contrasted in this chamber, even though someone is not doing well, on very many occasions. And on the contrary, we contrast a huge gap with the fiscal model that the People's Party has set for us, such a huge gap..., with those that repeatedly raise the will to stifle the fiscal capacity of the Government of Catalonia. In this case, unfortunately, the fiscal space..., the central space of our country is in the light of these proposals in fiscal matters made to us by the People's Party, which are, as has been said, proposals strictly addressed to a minority of society and frontally harmful to the bulk of the middle and popular classes of our country. I am beginning to value a little, very quickly, the proposal made for the group of the commons, recalling that the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Aragonès, on the 27th of February here in this very House of the Parliament of Catalonia, and I quote textually, said that we would propose..., « we propose to raise the general type applicable to the tax of documented legal acts on mortgage loans that at these times pay the financial entities, from the current 1.5_per_cent to 2_per_cent. Therefore, this is a proposal that is already being finalized by the Government, and of course its parliamentary processing will be able to accumulate with the proposal of law that we will benefit from in this plenary session, since they are absolutely coincidental. It is a measure that is absolutely consistent and consistent with the royal decree that at the time approved the Government of the State and the decree that approved the Government of Catalonia and that we validated in this Parliament at the end of last year. As has been said, this increase in the size of the IAJD will increase the Generality Government's revenue by EUR 748 million, which, as Vice-President Junqueras has always told us, will be much better for schools and public hospitals than to increase the astronomical benefits of the Spanish financial system, of Spanish banks; resources that will also be much better for promoting public housing policies than for the mortgage market. On the proposal of the law of the People's Party..., I will not go into assessing its details, but I will do some general reflections which seem to me to define very clearly our position and which also place emphasis on the lack of economic rigour in general terms of what is the fiscal policy proposed to us by the People's Party. It is proposed today to lower taxes on the sale of dwellings and somehow it is back to that philosophy..., not with the same intensity, but it is back to that philosophy of the past decade in which, when the real estate market was in what was going on "the real estate bubble, the Government of the State maintained important tax benefits in the purchase of housing and, moreover, applied very low types of ITP. And, on the other hand, years later, when the housing market fell into decline, the Government of the State collapsed, withdrawing the tax benefits from the sale of the housing and increasing the types of sales. It is to say that, when the market was scalded, it heated up more through fiscal policies that encouraged the purchase of housing and, when the market collapsed, it ended up dying and we ended all folds by ending it with an increase in taxes, and it seems to me that, at this point, when the price of housing is rising, the People's Party's idea is to return to those political veils. And a second reflection on the proposal made by the People's Party..., and it seems to me that, by strict assumptions, it is necessary to value the whole set of proposals in fiscal matters in aggregate form. And I'm going to make a few rests of some of the proposals that have been tabled by Parliament today, presented to the People's Party, because it seems to me that it is so frivolous and irresponsible that it sets levels of expenditure that cannot be assumed in the real world, with that which they claim to neglect the basic needs of the citizenry. And it is not a waste that, on the one hand, the Government of the Generalitat is limited to not being able to generate deficit and, at the same time, they have expired for years and in the financing system, and that, on the other hand, they propose fiscal measures to reduce the receipts that are absolutely contrary to them. Today they propose the drop of 314_million euros of the Generality's entries, but in another proposal that has been submitted they charge most of the tax props and plant eliminate 120_millions more of the Generality's entries. And, of course, at some point in their display of motive let some pearls of absolute complicity with the great defrauders, close to whom they dedicated in their moment to amnesia those who had their fortunes to the tax havens. And they also have a third law proposal proposing a reduction of the IRPF type in the autonomous scale, which falls to 800_million euros. All aggregate, 1,220_million euros less revenue for the Generality, that if, on the other hand, we count on the reductions of the floor of deficit, that from the year passed to the year that will end..., or would be the reduction of 0.4, in the end we are talking about 2,150_million euros. You'll tell us, Mr. Rodriguez, which public hospitals you want to lock up, which schools you want to lock up or which universities you want to lock up. And, yes, when they go to Madrid, IRPF goes up, the VAT goes up and the pension box goes down. Miri, we stay in the central space, in the space of the popular and middle classes, in the space of rigour and presuppositional responsibility, in the space of that taxation that acts to regulate the markets, to reduce negative externalities in the environmental, social and health spheres, in that space that also tries to demand greater efforts to which they have more or which they can more, to reduce inequalities, and in that space that they want to pursue the fight against fraud, huh? D.A. In short, in the space of fair fiscal policies, fiscal rigour and public services worthy of everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.93.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès, for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.94.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Vice President Aragonès, deputies, deputies. To the preliminary draft assumptions that you have already carried the past month of fever maintain and continue to maintain that rigour in finances is what can guarantee us well-being and face the challenge of the future. We are talking about a country's government – despite some comments from parliamentary groups – that it is committed to working for quality public services, where prosperity is shared and sustainable, and to ensuring redistribution and social cohesion. In short, we work for the dignity, democracy and strength of our institutions. But only with a solid fiscal strategy can we guarantee this welfare state. At the same time, the reform of fiscal policy that is likely to take place in this chamber has a limited recaptator impact and a limited regulatory capacity, which is also subject to tax and, in some respects, tax concessions. It's clear, also limited the funding model we're under. Therefore, we believe from our group..., take very seriously the two proposals of law that today are presented in this chamber. In the first place we will talk about the imposition of capital transfers and documented legal acts. As you know, the regulation that the regulation is approved by royal decree of the year 95 and established in its article 68 that the passive subject was the loan of documented legal acts. This precept has been often the expression of different feelings of the Supreme Court, this Supreme Court that we have every day in all our cases, on our televisions, which is the protagonist of this farce judgment of our companies and companies. All in all, all these Supreme sentiments generated a scene of insecurity about who was to be the tax payer, whether the provider or the borrower. This situation led the Government of Sánchez to approve the Royal Decree 17/2018 of 8 November 2018, in order to amend Article 29 of the law's recast text, in which it was established that in loan writings with mortgage guarantee is the lender the passive subject of the tax, i.e., the banking entities, as I have already been told before. On the other hand, the Government of the Generalitat, in its exercise of regulatory capacity in the matter of taxes, which is backward to the Law 21/2001, of 28 December..., there was, as also mentioned by Mr Rodriguez, a series of reductions to the tax type at the time when the borrower was paying. It is obvious that this end has been distorted at the time that the tax payer is the lender entity. That's why Decree No. 6/2018, dated November 13, does not intend to abolish these different types of reductions. Bearing in mind, then, Mr Cid, that we are moving to the general type, on the part of our group we obviously support having a parliamentary procedure its proposal to move from the current type from 1.5 to 2, is to say, an increase of 33,3_per_cent of the type, bearing in mind that, according to the data for the 2017 financial year, it has an impact of 78,4_million euros. We're talking about a lot of non-minusable people, which we have to take into account, especially in all the knowledge of the normal change that this has taken these days. I would also like to say that I would have liked that this could have helped and now I would be sure to apply if there was any support..., or we would have continued with the negotiations in the assumptions presented for the Department of Economics, because that's why they know that we're talking, especially because it was a time when there was all this normal change in the table. But, listen, now we're where we are, we're still talking, we're still talking about proposals, I think we don't have to talk about this parliamentary process that we're going to have. And surely it is time to make the point of ensuring that this increase does not have an impact, as Mr Rodriguez said, directly on the city and to study control measures, I suppose from Consumers, which guarantee the rights of consumers to these financed products. For what it does to the proposal of law presented for the People's Parliamentary Subgroup, it has already been explained, the tax of property transfers reduces the type of tax – it has been said, I will not extend – the general type from 10 to 8, the official protection habitats, yes, one point less, or still, from the current 7 to 6, and the type reduced, as it has also been explained, and more to the higher the income topall up to 45,000_euros, when it is now 30,000. Miri, Mr. Rodríguez, the answer is very clear with the economic impact of the measures, strictly from those proposed by you, according to the simulation carried out by the Tax Agency of Catalonia from the bases of ITP contributors and documented legal acts of the year 18, which amounts to 313,77_million euros. I don't have to teach anyone lessons, but understand that this is a lot of money to know how we can make up for it. And with all the respect for which every proposal, the ideology that I have, here has been made reference, but from my humble opinion there is an important inconsistency on the part of the People's Party, which proposes tax reductions without proposals that improve the redistributive character or contribute to a greater equity, more quickly to the contrary. In the years of the Rajoy government the PP had further restricted the fiscal capacity of Catalonia with constant resources to the Constitutional Court to the nine tax figures, such as the tax on deposits to banking entities, nuclear taxes, and we could follow. It is, therefore, a demagogic demand now, precisely now, for a tax rebate when for the other band the Government of the State has prevented it from deepening in the appropriate tax mark and has not wanted to give in to the regulatory and management capacity of the main state taxes, IRPFs, companies or VAT, which we still have to pursue in pursuit of this reduction in culture or in products of primary need. Moreover, as you know, we have a strict deficit target, which certainly has been completed two years later. I did Minister Montoro, Minister Montero continued, unilaterally and certainly unfairly, as we understand from our group. For which reason, the adoption of the measures that you propose would complicate even more the absolvement of this objective. That's why we justify presenting our goal to the totality. Mirin, I end up aggravating, in every way, that proposals are made in line with the assumptions. So much good one day can generate positive negotiations and we can approve together the assumptions that all Catalans and Catalans deserve. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, for a turn against the papers presented at the proposed law of the Subgroup of the People's Party, has the word Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.96.0	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to start..., I have not done it – I have not done it – but if Mrs Romero says that in the DNA of the People's Party..., I am in the absolute conviction that the lowering of taxes is the way and is the way, I will have to remind her of three figures – I will remind her of three figures – of November 2011. Remember? November 2011, when Zapatero left Moncloa: 5,273,000 were the abates that Zapatero left in September 2011; €103,000_million– €103,000_million–, deficit– deficit–, and 450, 450 was the debt risk premium in September 2011. Do you know what the debate was? You know that perfectly, don't you? What was the debate at that time: whether the Spanish economy was to be rescued by the European Union or not. Remember? Fortunately, from these figures and from that situation, we haven't forgotten. Fortunately. Yeah, yeah, luckily everything in there was stuck in the back. The stops have already dropped – there are many still and need to be corrected, it has to be changed – at just over 3_million, the deficit has also dropped in an extraordinarily important way, the risk premium is in the hundred basic points. That's to say, it changed a lot, but fortunately it changed because the Spaniards took out Mr. Zapatero and put Mr. Rajoy there, of course. And at that moment of imminent rescue from the Spanish economy by the troika – those who so much call the troika, it seems that you want them to come from the troika even more – the result of those decisions was that you were able to correct that situation. But this was not the will of the People's Party, and the proof is that when the economic situation got out of hand and started to generate jobs, and it already generated more than two million jobs... I remember it because maybe one day we need to talk about 2018 figures again and how Mr. Pedro Sánchez left them, right? But fortunately that situation has been corrected and taxes have been lowered, and taxes have been lowered. And it didn't mean less recap, Mr. Cid, it meant more economic activity, it meant more work places, it meant more consumption and it meant more recap. Lowering taxes has recovered more. So this is the key – this is the key. And Mrs. Romero tells me: "Listen to me, and why in protected habitats do they only lower them from 7 to 6? Says: "Well, maybe the Socialist Party over there does other things. And he gave me time to go over it. Miri, Andalusia, 8_per_cent; Aragó, 8; Balears, 8; yes, Asturias, 3_per_cent– yes, Asturias, 3_per_cent. And the lower ones, Castella - La Mancha, 6_per_cent; Extremadura, 4_per_cent, because I suppose they should leave the People's Party when they rule and you haven't changed it yet. Now, if that's the problem, listen, if that's the problem, not one. We're already ready. There's no problem. Withdraw the message to the totality, we debate it, which is what you want, to have a debate on taxation. They debate it. And if the problem of everything is that we only lower from 7 to 6 the tax of heritage transmissions of protected habitat and it has to lower, fem-ho, no problem, willing to talk to it. That's why we're presenting a proposal for you. Now, I am convinced that this is not the problem. The problem was that you only arrived at the Faristol, and I think the other interventions went the same way; it's true, there are two models – it's true, there are two models –: regression and progress. Now, for me, regression is the model that pushes taxes, destroys the economy and destroys jobs. This is the regression model. And, in turn, the progressive model is one that allows the economy to grow, that creates work places and that the recapitulation of administrations to grow. That's the difference. The two models are: those who only think about how they affect taxes at the administration entrances, those who only think that welfare can only be generated from the administration, and the other model is those we think is the society that generates welfare, that it is the citizens who generate welfare, that creation of jobs is well-being. In short, those who feel that taxes should be pushed and those who feel that taxes can and should be lowered. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.97.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. The rest of the groups that have not yet intervened to express their position will now intervene. In the first place, for the Grupo Parlamentari of Ciutadans, has the word the deputy José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.98.0	Thank you, President. Vice president, public, very good morning to everyone. Today we discuss – and warmly, from what I have seen – two issues that affect the cost a family bears when buying a home. The one presented by the People's Party, which affects the property transfer tax, which is a proposal for reduction of rates... In the case of the People's Party, the most surprising thing is that it is a political party that only proposes tax reductions when it does not govern; it only presents them where it is certain that these proposals are not going to pull, they are not going to prosper. Instead, when they govern, they are dedicated to the opposite: they are dedicated to raising taxes, suffocating families and the self-employed. Therefore, I understand that this proposal is for the gallery, and you do not believe it yourself, gentlemen of the People's Party, and yet we are open to debate. The other proposal is of the commons, of Podemos. This is, as always, in the line of massively raising taxes. They want to raise the tax on mortgages; they want to ultimately increase the price of housing. Mrs Romero, you compared us to Europe. The reality is that Spain has the highest taxes on the mortgage firm in all of Europe. And there are countries, like Germany, like the United Kingdom or like Holland, where even this tribute does not exist. And, being a tribute given to the autonomous communities, there are different tax rates depending on the autonomous community in which we find ourselves. And, as we all know, when it comes to taxes, in our autonomous community, in Catalonia, here we take the gold medal, and it is placed together with the autonomous communities that have a higher tax. In Catalonia we have a general tax type of documented legal acts of 1.5_per_cent while in Rioja, for example, the type is 1_per_cent. And so it happens with all taxes, including the IRPF, where Catalonia is the autonomous community where the most IRPF pays the middle and working class, and I have never heard them complain. And so it is being suffered right now by the citizens who have to make the income declaration. The raw reality is that Catalonia is on the podium when it comes to collecting taxes from citizens. And you, gentlemen of Podemos, despite this reality that I have described to you, want to raise taxes even more. And they tell us that we have to raise those because now the tax payers will be the rich, according to you, will be the banks. But I understand that that excuse doesn't really believe it either of you, because what you're saying, what you're trying to do is get another tax hike. And it is that, in fact, gentlemen of Podemos, when it comes to raising taxes to you gives exactly the same who has to pay it, the goal is to raise it. It is yours to crucify the citizens, as in Aragon – in Aragon – an autonomous community in which you, Lords of Podemos, raised this tax a 50_per_cent, when those who suffered it were not precisely the banks, as you now argue, were the customers, and you have no scruples when it comes to giving a blast to the Aragonese families who sign a mortgage. And here, as in Aragon, the measure they propose to us today would entail an increase in the cost of housing, which means raising the costs of mortgages. And they're trying to convince us that, in their fantasy economic world, this tax won't affect the cost of mortgages. I think they think we're naive. And it is that, in their fantasy economic world, the costs faced by banks do not affect the prices of their products and services, in this case mortgages. But, look, the IBI that pays the branch, also pays the bank; the economic activity tax, also pays the bank. But what does the bank do when they raise any of these taxes? Apparently, in its fantasy economic world, the bank is costing and doing absolutely nothing. But we all know that that's not true, because what the bank really does is raise expenses to the family that needs a mortgage to buy their home. And that family, because of this occurrence, because of its occurrence, the mortgage comes out more expensive, and, therefore, the housing comes out more expensive. And their tax decisions end up paying the usual ones: the middle and working class. Look at this chart. In December 2016, the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled in favour of the return of the ground clause; a far more powerful measure than the one sought here. This graph shows that the average interest before the clause was eliminated was 2.4_per_cent; it has been two years and the average interest remains between 2.3 and 2.4_per_cent. That is, in the real economy, unlike what happens in its fantasy economy world, the bank has shifted the effects to families. And the profitability calculations the financial institution makes will include its great idea. To this, including in the real world, banks call it ‘reviewing their mortgage offer. And the customers will see how they get the differential on the euribor, or they will see how they get the commissions, or they will see both, have the rent they have. Well, it won't: those customers who have more income and more savings will have better conditions than those who have less income and less savings. Therefore, in the end, who ends up paying the cost of the tax hike is the family that needs a mortgage to buy their home. And those citizens will agree with me that they are usually not the richest. And to avoid this situation is to deceive the citizenry to raise taxes. And, therefore, its proposal to increase the tax rate amounts to sanding families who have to resort to a mortgage to buy their home. And it is also a perverse incentive for a government like this, because it will prefer that housing prices are ever higher because they will collect more and more. And the collection would have to be in the background. This tax has..., compared to the same number of house sales, it would have to be more and more, it would have to have less and less collection, because that would mean that housing has increasingly lower prices and is becoming more affordable. And that's exactly what we need, more affordable housing. Therefore, the increased collection that you preach so much will increase the cost of housing. On the other hand, we are not going to support your claim to raise taxes to spend more without any kind of control. It is not a question of spending more and more without limits, it is not a question of frying taxes on Catalans; it is a question of investing in a responsible way, of making good use of the resources that we have; it is obviously a question of eliminating political chiringuitos; it is a question of eliminating duplication and administrative fat; it is a question of reforming the Catalan administration which already has forty years of spider webs; it is a question of these gentlemen obsessed with the process not wasting everyone's money; it is a question of not using it to confront us badly talking about Spain, of not devoting it to their embassies, to their supposed well-paid observers, to foreign lobbies; it is a question of not wasting the money of Catalans in that propaganda machine which is dedicated to disrespecting the real majority of Catalans called TV3. And of all that, which are indispensable, you never say anything at all. They only propose to whitewash all these situations by telling us that we have to massively raise taxes on families. And they are dedicated to making proposals like today. And it is that in the house of the commons it is the slogans that command not the reality of families. You..., Mr. Cid, when you described to me the policies of Citizens, in my head I only saw a leader with a large villa and a large swimming pool. And Mrs Romero, when she was also talking about a description of politics, she only saw a leader in a Falcon strolling around the world. [[Widow's remorse.]] What they tell us is that you can create wealth by wasting money, what they tell you is that you can create wealth by wasting public money. And we all know that's not the case. It is not about spending more; it is about investing better, it is about not wasting resources, it is about carrying out the necessary structural reforms, it is about boosting the economy, not crushing it. And, gentlemen of the commons, you have no proposals for economic impulse, economic proposals that would allow us to end precarious work, that would allow us to better finance our welfare state, so that no one would stand aside, so that our citizens would be protected when they needed it most, to improve social protection... And all you propose is to raise all taxes; taxes that end up bearing the usual ones. And it is that, when we thought that there could be nothing worse in the Catalan economy than a separatist government, a government that expels thousands of companies, a government that raises a wall against investment, that expels foreign investment, when we really thought that we had reached the bottom, something even worse comes up for the Catalan economy, a separatist government with the economic and fiscal policies of Podemos. And do you know who's hurting him? In short, they always suffer the same: Catalan families. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the words of Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.100.0	Well, good morning. The exhibitions of Santi, the PP, always inspire me as ideological confrontation. Today he has made us a class of economy, and he is talking to us about a neoclassical perspective; a perspective that understands housing as a commodity that responds to the laws of perfect competition. Why are these laws characterized? So because the number of consumers and producers is very large, and this happens on the housing market, and more housing is a commodity that is homogeneous, the price is donated and both consumers as producers have the perfect information. And it's based on this mantra that the People's Party is talking about, and other groups of this chamber. But it turns out that the internal logic of the market as the essential mechanism of housing provision is incompatible with a viewing of housing as a tool for satisfying human needs. And for us housing is not a commodity but a tool for satisfying human needs. This contradiction between the internal logic of the market and the satisfaction of human needs is very clear, we see it in very clear facts: two denominations the hour, Catalonia encapsulates the ratio of denominations, we dedicate 50_percent of ours under this habitation, the price of the logger is absolutely disorbited and uncontrolled and makes people not able to access a right that is so necessary to enjoy a dignified life, and so we see these constant news of getting out of their homes and staying on the street. That's why capitalism is called. Therefore, we understand that this irresolvable contradiction justifies the intervention of the State. And what should be the role of the State and the institutions in respecting the coverage of this right? So the state has to be a regulator that sets the conditions for housing provision, obviously counting on all social actors, and therefore also has to be an actor that rules capital accumulation, especially in relation to benefits such as housing, which is not a Mercedes. And, therefore, the residential supply system must place the community needs at the centre. What is the capitalist state doing now? , how did the State intervene in the coverage of the right to housing? So what you do is act as an agent for the commercialization of public goods and, therefore, facilitates the search for or creation of new markets for accumulation, and in the case of housing you have as the essence that your supply system is regulated by this perfect market intelligence. We don't believe in this perfect market intelligence. How do we think it's supposed to work? So precisely as we have always done in the conquest of rights: overflowing legal limits, for one band, overflowing these instruments of assurance of capitalism of which I will now speak, in the short time I remain, and for another band, overflowing the lobbies of power. How's that? Mitigating social counterpowers. What are social counter-powers? The social counter-powers are, for example, the PAH, the Llogaters Union, those people who day by day overflow these limits to try to secure the right of housing, beyond the market's interface and beyond this insufficient coverage that institutions make. How do we see it? Who are these insurance instruments? We saw it with the Supreme Court's judgment: one day you say one thing, another day you say another... Why? Because, when they're rigging the lobbies of the financial markets, these are the ones they run. And this is an absolutely widespread scam. The AJD and ITP should have paid the banks retroactively. And that's a second bailout. After €60,000_million, after condoning €40,000_million to the bank, we see that retroactively they have no responsibility, the banks, neither for the AJD nor for the ITP. And now, if responsibility is given, what do they do? So push the mortgage types, because this way they counter this penalty that, according to them, is a penalty that the State has given them and that they have agreed, that they have granted among the actors. Why? Because in the end these institutions are an instrument for ensuring capitalism. And yes, we will vote in favour of this proposal from Catalonia in Comú, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.101.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.102.0	...in reality, it's a palliative measure that doesn't transform reality and that doesn't come to the point of the problem and that only attacks the symptoms, and not the disease.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.103.0	Congresswoman, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.104.0	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.105.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The debate is over, we're calling for a vote. [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] Tell me, Mr. Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.106.0	He asks for the word for direct allusions of Mr. Rodriguez and Mr. Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.107.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.108.0	Mr. Rodríguez is right, that to speak of a readable economy, but he may also know how to count, and Mr. Rodríguez today has proposed a tax reduction of the Generality's assumption of more than 500_million euros: more than 300 euros with his proposal, and also more than 200_million dollars of redemption loss with the elimination, in this case, of the imposition of documented legal acts on mortgage transmissions. And, Mr. Cano, look at me, when I talk about taxation and you see me at Cape Town, you know what I see at Cape Town? The chiringuito finance from its list heading to the Madrid Assembly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.109.0	Mr. Cid...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.110.0	...that it had a stock company with more than 200_million euros hidden to pay less taxes, in this case...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.111.0	...time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.112.0	...for what he does to... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.113.0	Thank you. The debate is over, we say, and since in the first proposal for the debate there were no totality reviews, that is to say, the proposed law amending Law 21/2001, of 28 December, of fiscal and administrative measures, presented in this case for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, this initiative continues its processing. And, on the other hand, we will proceed to the vote – in this case yes – together of the papers to the totality of the return to the Proposition of the Law of Tax Measures in relation to the imposition of capital transfers and documented legal acts, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. First, we shall vote on the two totality papers presented jointly. Let us therefore proceed to the vote on the two items together. [[Pause.]] Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. The two total votes were approved with 87 votes in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. As a result, this legislative initiative is rejected. [[Proposal for port and transport law in maritime and continental waters (debate of totality)]] [[202-00055/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, which is the debate of totality on the proposition of law of ports and transport in sea and continental waters. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure and the fact that this initiative has been presented jointly by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republic, these two parliamentary groups propose to present this legislative initiative in the first place. In the first place, therefore, has the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the deputy Mr Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.114.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, president, vice president, let me make a statement before the presentation of this proposal of the law that we present to you, of the Law of ports. We find ourselves with a political anomaly; I would like to recall that this proposal for the law, the initial text of this proposal for the law was presented in this parliamentary chamber on 22nd December 2016 for whom it was the counselor of Territori and friend, Josep Rull. Now it's a political press, just like eight other people, some members of this chamber, who are being held secret by the Spanish Administration. In Josep Rull now carries 444 nits in temporary detention, as does the Lower Dolors, in Raül Romeva and in Jordi Turull ; 569 nits, in carry Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez ; 552 nits, Oriol Junqueras and Quim Forn, and 412 nits, President Carme Forcadell. A temporary prison that violates the most elementary principles of the international law and the same Spanish legal order, which provides for temporary detention as an exceptional mechanism of deprivation of liberty, and we understand that in the present case, in the process following the Supreme Court, in Madrid, it does not give any of the conditions, for which the only mechanism or the only situation that allows these persons to continue in temporary detention is a will of revenge on the part of the Government of the State. We ratify more in this perception that there is persecution when persons linked to '1 October are being persecuted in relation to '1 October; breach of the unit of the judicial case, partial prosecutions, persons we do not know what their procedural situation is and petition for million-dollar bonds to the Supreme Court and to the Court number 13 of Barcelona for the same facts. Therefore, it is obvious that we find ourselves in a clear violation of the rights to the defense of all these people. Nor would we want to fail to mention the violation of the right to demonstration or freedom of expression, in pursuing pallassos, tweeters or singers, a whole series of violations that place us more close to Erdoğan Turkey than to European democracies. And yes, we carry this text in the form of a proposal of the law, a text that had already been approved in ponència, in parliamentary ponència, and that only its approval was lacking for the Ple of this chamber. And that was not possible because, after October 1st, someone decided that it was necessary to take action against the institutions of this country: an attack..., a dismissal against the Government of the Generality and, from here, to call elections, because they see the victory secure. But, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! , the reality is coughing and this country coughing has risen to win some elections, to avoid that the instructions coming from Madrid can be put into practice. And here we are, here we are trying to rectify the evils that Article 155 has caused in its maximum application and, in the legislative sphere, also trying to bring forward some legislative projects that were stuck. We believe that we are still in an exceptional situation, and therefore we want to continue denouncing in every intervention we can – and we understand that this was a clear case of these – that there are prisoners who see their rights violated and restricted to political participation. Already after making this small introduction, we would like to enter into what would be the most concrete object of the debate and, in any case, we would like to make some words also that were made in the intervention of Councillor Rull, in the sense that we find ourselves with a current law of the year 98, a law that passed these past twenty years the updating, the giving of a novelty or the updating of a game to the existing reality. At that time the Law of Ports, an innovative law, basically objected to the regulation on everything that it did relating to the construction of ports. In this context the reality has changed, and it has changed a lot; we are not in a time of development of sport ports, but in any case with what we find ourselves at these moments is the need to manage these sport ports. And therefore, this is the will, this was the will of the bill, and this is the will that we carry through this law proposal that we understand must and must follow its parliamentary course. We believe that the reality for which it makes the use of vessels and the model of the tenance of these vessels has changed and, therefore, the same regulation of the port regulations has to change, but it has to make compatible the activity of the fishing, sport, commercial and industrial uses. It's this moment we find ourselves. We also believe, moreover, that this law forms part of a normal trident which, together with the Law of the Coast and the Pla director of unsustainable soils in the field of the coast, must allow for a complete regulation to regulate these 780_kilometres of coasts that we have in the country. A coast that, as we have seen on various occasions, is fragile, subject and submissive to the effects of climate change, and therefore from this point of view what we understand is that any regulatory action must also be directed to the protection and mitigation of climate change. We believe, therefore, that this is a text that, in the concrete field of what is the management of the same ports and the same nautical installations, is what needs to be done: to regulate in the field that corresponds to it and to put its grit to avoid these impacts. We believe..., and that's also what regulates this law proposal: it's a plan of ports, a sectoral plan that specifically regulates the adequacy of these ports, in which questions it has to enter. And then an innovative element of this bill, which we also understand as an interesting force, that is the element of port urban plans, a tool to allow, together with the joints– and we cannot forget the importance of the participation of the joints in the field, let us say, of the ports–..., it is important that these urban plans that they can allow, that they can also open these ports to the social realities of each of the municipalities. The ability to interact, the need to interact these ports together with their cities..., must be done. For many years, many of these ports have been closed to reality, have been closed to their social realities, and, therefore, we understand that with these nine projections it must be possible. We believe – and this is what presents this bill of law –..., Catalonia at these moments of forty-seven ports plus two ports of general interest, but it has to be and must have a coordinated view to take advantage of the different synergies. We believe that this is the way to have a visit of the country in its conjunction; it is not only worth regulating some ports, but all those ports that in one way or another affect the country, we believe that they should be regulated and that they should be able to regulate through this law. Therefore, the Generalitat must have those powers of planning, ordering and control and inspection of the activities that are developing in these ports. The institution or company Ports de la Generalitat has to manage these infrastructures from the public-private collaboration. We believe that in many cases it can be done through purely public management, but we believe that this public-private collaboration must also be of interest in the following five cases. We believe that in the diversity of these forty-seven ports there are different realities, different social realities, and, therefore, we must also have the capacity, the law must have the capacity to adopt and structure itself to this situation. We believe, therefore, that this bill allows this promotion of public-private collaboration, which we believe is interesting, as so many other things have done in this country with this collaboration. They also want this bill of law regulating maritime transport to ensure the safety of users; they also want to establish the categories of harbours, as was pointed out by Councillor Rull in his exposition, calia or cal, let's say, establish a sequence of stars for these ports; they have different ports in different categories depending on the services they can provide, depending on the needs and the services they can donate. And, ultimately, it respects the document approved for questioning at its time, there have been some mechanisms introduced, some changes, we have incorporated some changes due to the Law of Contracts of the State, to the Law 9/2017. We have also incorporated some forecasts into the Climate Change Law, Law 16/2017 and, therefore, what we have done is to incorporate in that text, with the good work that was done in that post, incorporate some modifications that have been made since that time and until now and, therefore, from this point of view, we believe that it is a much more complete text. We have spoken to the rest of the parliamentary groups, we believe that we are in a position to dampen some of the terms that exist in parliamentary proceedings. We believe, for example, that the environment, let's say, of what are the appearances we could avoid until this work is already done and, in any case, enter directly into the debate of those points which were placed under the consideration of this parliamentary chamber, so we hope that this will see its light or have a quick processing that allows us to see the light in this parliamentary chamber very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.115.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Roquer has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.116.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. Counsellor, Secretary of Mobility, manager of Ports, people of the world of ports, friend Xavier Ribera, well, they see that they came to present the same law that Mr. Bloods introduced to them a while ago – strangely it would be, if not, that it was not so. Also – at the time of preparing this intervention I went to look at the intervention that Councillor Rull had made in this very Parliament and still made me reflect more on the injustice that our fellow journalists who are today unjustly in prison are painting. Well, this proposal for law is based on a law that has been processed by the last legislature and that is going to make comparisons, it has been the case, it has been presented papers to the articulate, it has approved a report in committee and, with the application of Article 155 on Catalan institutions, it has not been able to approve. It is, therefore, a matter of enriching a text that had already been able to generate consensus and I hope to continue generating. Catalonia has a lot of coastal areas, it has seven-hundreds_width_kilometres of coast. In these seven hundred miles of coast there are forty-seven ports. This proposal of law as one of its main objectives to put the harbour infrastructures to the service of the economic promotion, of the activities that is fan in a port. Congressman Sanglas said today: these ports have been built, they have donated concessions under Law 5 of 1998, of 17 April, of ports of Catalonia. And this law had as its objective the construction of new ports and improve the level of the infrastructures that existed. And the same Councillor Rull said, at the time he presented this law: "The Law of 98 encourages the construction of new infrastructures, the machinery, ugly reference it, which would say, in Anglo-Saxon terms, hardware. Therefore, it served, this law, to provide port infrastructure to the country. Surely the evolution that the country will have will not be without creating more infrastructure stations. Therefore, this law, the law that we present to you today, this proposal of the law they intend to advance, improve the management of these ports. Catalonia's port system is currently financially self-sufficient, that is to say, there is no allocation of resources from Catalans – there is no allocation of tax resources. But ports are able to generate economic activity without having the cost of opportunity in social policies, in policies of welfare, sanitation or teaching. Over the last six years, more than 100 million public-private investment has been generated and, according to the economic and social impact study of the port system of 2017, the billing of the port system is 1,164_million euros, 3,2_million euros daily, and generates 10,214 places of work. This system, however, has a few setbacks: many concessions end, the threat of climate change on the maritime front, a generational change in port users, a change of conception in property rights and rights of use of assets, the need to open ports to cities, to remove barriers, to interrelate with the city that harbours. A paradigm shift – we said before –: we don't need to build ports, we need to better manage the ports we have, and we need to give security to public-private collaborations. In Catalonia, many of the private managers are nautical clubs, users grouped into professional managers who give added value to port management, able to administer the various uses and activities that pass to ports, that pass many, pass nautical, sports, cultural, touristic, pass digging, pass shiplogers, pass restoration, oci, fishing, industry, multitude of activities. That it is a good model, this one, we believe, but the same law, this proposal of law that we present them, also allows a possible direct management by the same articulated Generality through Ports of the Generality, an example of the excellence of public enterprises in the management of infrastructures, when we hear. The law allows a Catalan model of collaboration between sectors, such a Catalan model..., the Catalan model of the associationism of people. And these relationships require a clear _framework, concession formulas that make the management expert prevail, that encourage the reversal; ports, we say, open to the municipality, clear concessional rules, that allow managing and investing and do public work, and also have terms that allow the depreciation of the installations and the investments they make. The model of the Law of ports that we present must be open to the city and to the city and there must be activities..., the law must allow there to be activities continuously, winter and summer: social, cultural, of all kinds. Now, this integration needs powerful urban policy instruments to regulate it. It creates the figure of the harbour urban planning board, which is a rule that must necessarily be born of the consensus between the agents. In fact, without that consensus, I wouldn't be able to hear it. And, in fact, the gatherings should be the one to have the lead. In addition to being open to cities, they must be an engine of economic activity, of all types of industry related to the sea and the activity that develops there, both in the sea and in the land areas that are often underutilized. It has to be, therefore... it has to be allowed to create activity and occupation. At the same time that it generates activity and occupation, when I hear, when we hear, it has to take care of the popular nautical, of the 32,988 dockers available in Catalonia, two thirds, 66_per_cent, are moorers of lower than eight_metres; 25_per_cent are moorers of elas between eight and twelve_metres, and only 9_per_cent are moorers of higher than twelve_metres. Therefore, it is a system that must be old for the popular nautical, for the promotion of sailing in collaboration with the representative entities of the sector. A country that has the kilometers of coastline that Catalonia has, necessarily, has to promote maritime activities through the schools. The nautical ports must be able to lead a process of openness similar to that which in its moment they had, for example, the ski sports. This proposal of the law allows it. The future model of ports of Catalonia has to be loving to the change that can happen in the physiognomy of the coast, it has to allow the managers of the ports to adapt to the change that there may be and anticipate it there, if it can be. The proposal also talks about the environmental sustainability of port infrastructures. It regulates aspects such as dredging, the transfer of snorkels, the openings and the treatment of residues, or the prevention of atmospheric and acoustic contamination. You have a qualification system for the services and conditions of ports similar to the ones in the world of the inn mediating the application of stars, huh? It also establishes a new governance system. The Department of Territories and Sustainability regulates, plans, orders, guarantees public interest and legal certainty, while the Generality Ports company manages investments and relationships between Administration and managers in a smooth manner. And the law holds him a paper still more protagonist in projecting its functions respect to all ports – all ports – that integrate the port system of Catalonia. All these reasons explained would justify the urgent processing of the law itself, but it must be added that this is practically essential if we take into account that in the two years since the processing of the project, other communities in our immediate and European environment have seen their legislation evolve in a line similar to that proposed to them in this bill's proposal. Our ports cannot lose competitiveness, they must be able to recover this time. The country needs these investments that will bring a consolidated legal mark, without oblivion that, of the concessions we have donations, fourteen ports will end their term of validity in the next few years. In short, the port system of Catalonia, its managers, the users they think and enjoy of the sea, the companies of the nautical and sports sector, the coastal territories that require this engine of economic activity, all of them expect the law to approve as soon as possible. We can't fail them. It's good, it's fast. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.117.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, as long as no totality papers have been submitted, the rest of the groups will intervene to position themselves. And in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.118.0	Thank you, President. Members, deputies, councillors, it has already been said here, this law comes from afar. Almost three years ago, in 2016, the government of a gentleman who sat there and today is fleeing justice after a blow to democracy..., that government brought here this bill of ports and transportation in continental waters. And he brought her in, boasting, without any indecentness, that it was a law thought of as a structure of state. They said it openly in all the media: that it was not a law for an autonomous community, that it was a law for an entire state..., an aberration both in concept and in content, although nothing different than what we were accustomed to then and what we still have used to today. They said that and said worse things, because in December 2016 the gentlemen who sat here believed that they were entitled to do whatever they wanted, even outside the law. In 2016, the gentlemen who sat here had already planned, and sold it to us as the most normal thing in the world, trampling on the rights of most Catalans as they then did. They were quite clear that they were not going to make any case to the warnings of the courts, which were many, and thought that they could carry a pen of the whole legal order with total impunity. That's why they talked so cheerfully. And on top of it they thought they could get away with it. They believed that by sitting here, they had an immunity card and that's why they later, by trampling on our rights, the rights of the majority of Catalans, so today they sit before the courts; not because of their ideas, gentlemen, but because of their illegal acts, what ideas they can have that they want whenever they respect the law. Well, and if in Catalonia we weren't immersed in this process that engulfs everything, common sense, coexistence, opportunities, we'd have a port law for a long time. Catalonia has more than seven hundred kilometers of coastline if we travel it in all its recovecos, almost eight hundred. The nautical activity, the fishing activity of its coast is of great importance. The rule that we have in force today is the first one that has been drafted since 1998, it has been said here, it is the first one that we have had in this area, and many things have happened since the late 1990s in this sector. It is true in Catalonia that it seems that the only thing that has happened is that all common sense, sense of responsibility and sense of reality have been lost. But outside this government the world is moving forward, and in many cases it is moving even in spite of this government: there have been new European directives, there have been changes in state legislation, opening up new opportunities, and the economic situation has been changing, and the sector has also evolved. So either we update the legislation already or we're going to miss even more opportunities. We need a new law, but it does not serve us any law, it does not serve a law that plays to hide reality, and much less it is worth leaving articles that can be interpreted in one way or another depending on whether they are read with yellow glasses or with transparent glasses. We need to get the best possible laws, realistic laws, clear laws, those that citizens, businesses, administrations need to exercise their role, to make clear what their rights are and what their obligations are, who does not depend on who reads it. Because when these laws have to be applied I do not know where I will be, but I have already been a citizen, I have been a worker of a private company, I have been a worker of the Administration, and of an infrastructure administration precisely, that works with laws like these, and from all those places I have been able to see the damage that can come to make an article badly written or an article that does not make clear what the circumstances are and what the form of application is, an article like some of those that claim to contain this law. There are already, in fact, many articles in the legislation that have this problem – in Catalan, in the state... –, unclear articles. That's true, sometimes there are situations that are not well solved, and they give many problems, I assure you. But these cases occur because no one took them into account when drafting the law, because those who drafted it missed something or because new circumstances were given that it was impossible to contemplate at that time. That can happen. But what you can't admit is that this ambiguity is on purpose. The 2016 bill, before going through the paper, the one brought here by that government, that bill was the king of intentional ambiguity. The paper was very hard, it was very hard for me and I think it was hard for anyone who expected a good law to come out of it. See how a confused or bad wording was preferred, for putting forward absurd questions such as not naming the state laws, that were not seen there, or not saying that the ports of Tarragona and Barcelona are of general interest to the state, not to say, choosing a worse text, I assure you that it despairs any complete person. Fortunately, he worked on it and managed to achieve something a more reasonable film. That is why, and because we really believe in the need for this law, this time we have not tabled an amendment to the whole, although, unfortunately, the text that is presented today still has the shadow of the process and lacks that spirit of wanting to be the best possible law. They continue to play the trick in many of their points; they are the same and continue to think of the same. And within a time in Catalonia we will have to continue to apply these laws, we will have to apply these laws that are cheating and deceptive and that I do not know who they intend to deceive, but I do know who it is that harms, that it is all Catalans. They continue to play ambiguity and continue to play obscurantism. I give you an example that anyone will understand: we are talking about ports, ports are points of entry for people and goods; for there is not a mention of the functions of fiscal safeguard or alien, in which there is nothing but to imagine, therefore, that everyone knows the distribution of existing competences and that it will apply; but we have to imagine that. Or article 31, which defines the port public domain, and the truth is that it discourages reading, with how important it is that it is well defined. I will not go into technical details, but there mixes water surfaces and land with the property and ownership rights of the port administration, all this, again, without clarifying what is happening with the land's maritime public domain. And who do you think it hurts? Do you think it hurts me? Do you think it harms the opposition? To the Ministry of Development? Well, no. I'll tell you who it hurts, and it's all Catalans. I do not want to think of the poor official who has to grant authorization on the basis of this law or of the company that wants to apply and does not know what to comply with. We want to have a new port law, and we want to have it as soon as possible; in this I think we all agree. For our part, we will do our utmost to ensure that this is the case, we will give up certain procedures, as has been said, but we will not give up registering amendments that can fix some of your delusions. If you want to defend disconnection, you can do it; make gestures, make demonstrations, do whatever you want within the law. But, please, we ask you to be responsible and to forget the process for a paper and to come out of it the best law we can offer. I know they won't do it for us, but do it, please, for all Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.119.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Terrades has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.120.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, has been mentioned before: seven hundred kilometres of coast, forty-seven ports, we have fishing activity, nautical..., we can continue to speak also of the coast. This is the second occasion when we are carrying the Law of ports that are the competence of the Generality to a debate of totality; it has already done the disembarkation of the year 2016. I thought we were talking about ports today, and so I'm not going to refer to the rest of the collateral, huh? That's why Congressman Sanglas, like Congressman Roquer, and Congresswoman Bravo have made reference. Temptate, I'm not; but I won't, huh? We say again that the law in force, from the year 1998, after twenty years was obsolete, remains obsolete today, and that, therefore, it is necessary to address its modification, its reform. The law that today the groups that support the government re-present has many similarities with what Councillor Rull already presented on his day, but incorporates, it has been said, two things: one, all the work in ponència that has already been done, or practically all, eh? – something we found missing –, and it also incorporates some modifications, which I'll talk to you about later. Despite this, there is still some way out of our sight, which can end – I hope not – by distancing the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group from this bill. At the end of the day, I'll be back, huh? I'll talk to you at the end of these questions. This law – it was manifested in September 2016, when I also made the defense of our position, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, respect for the processing of the law – from our point of view, it is a law that has a very technical configuration, isn't it? ; in fact, it is an adaptation of state law, it has many similarities with the state law that regulates the functioning of ports at the level of the joint of Spain. One of the friction points that we had in the debate of the previous law in question, in its processing, basically dealt with how were the renewals and the extension of concessions or the extension of concessions and enabling titles – talked about it before Congressman Roquer, didn't he? – which conditions should be met to address these concessional titles. A debate was opened on whether the improvement of port infrastructure by dealers and managers necessarily and automatically involved the expansion of these concessional periods and for how long, huh? This debate has been produced in parliamentary terms, it has reached a certain point of consensus. Now, some variations have now been introduced in relation to the text given in the previous question, which we have already announced to them that we want to go back to study in detail, huh? And, therefore, I'm announcing that you're not exempt from presenting some topic in this new way of focusing these questions, to refocus, from our point of view, the debate. Let us reiterate once again that Catalonia, which has forty-seven ports, from the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress..., makes it unnecessary that there is more; we believe that they are sufficient, eh? Even so, I would say that from our position the expansion of the current ones is not convenient either. It's either very justified or, from the start, we haven't just seen it. Two or three reasons to fix this position, huh? One, the proliferation that we have had at the last decades of ports in Catalonia, because of its geographical position, because of the dynamics of the currents of the sea, which, combined with the strikes of the storms that we have often and that every time I think we have more assiduousness, makes every year we have problems in a thicker place every time more considerable of beaches. The same urbanization of the country's territory not only affects the flats, but also the urban areas of many cities: loss of sips, subsequent pressure to recover them, considerable economic resources. Another reason is the effects of climate change and the adaptation that we need to do in this phenomenon, which will require significant investments in presupposed terms to protect the ports we have in Catalonia as well. We're in processing... and that's what I'm wearing, huh? , because we have another law in hand, which is the Law of the Coast, which has already begun to work, which has already begun to come together, experts, and from the reading of both laws, which affect the same reality, on the same space, it seems that. While they have been well-off at the same counseling, there have been girls with different visions and different interests. One doesn't talk to the other, huh? There's a vision... it looks like there's two laws that aren't looking, when it would be necessary for this to happen. Some experts have already pointed out in their parliament that it is necessary to study more effectively the interaction between ports and beaches and sea walks, right? , and regulate it better, both in a law that is already in way as in this, that will begin its parliamentary processing. Even some people have pointed out that it would be wise to pull them both out and rephrase a joint view, huh? Counselor, don't get nervous; it's not the position the Socialist Parliamentary Group held. If you've been there, we've presented a message to the whole thing, which we haven't done. What we are telling you is that in the parliamentary process of the two laws we will probably have to achieve that they better combine their articulations, that there are not two looks at this territorial reality, that we have one and that both incorporate with clearer clarity the need for adaptation to the climate change. I told them that there's still a part of the joint that we don't see clearly, that we don't actually share it. We've already introduced some matisaço, which was not collected, into the previous law. And it is what affects the other two great ports: the port of Barcelona, the port of Tarragona, the ports of general interest. We understand that this law plays with an ambiguous writing in the joint, and we are of those who consider that a law cannot enter a nebula, of the "no, but yes, of the "no, but yes, yes, eh? We have competence in forty-seven ports that are the competence of the Generality of Catalonia, which is not a little – that is not a little – and in two of general interest, two of general interest in which the Administration of the Generality, in which the Government of the Generality makes the proposal for the appointment of its presidents, in this case the President of the Port of Barcelona and the President of the Port of Tarragona, but that they continue to feel, today, the competence of the General Administration of the State. And I'm telling you this because the announcement we're going to make in two articles of this law is already because I made it clear that it's the competence of every school, so as not to enter into this nebula of interpretation of the law that then leads us on our way, I think, not desired on the part of..., I suppose the government, which is very supposed, but above all the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that it doesn't want to enter these resources, that we don't think they would be produced in this law. These are the warnings we have. And we hope that in the parliamentary process we can arrive, just as we did in the previous process, in positions of consensus respecting concessional policies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.121.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.122.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You didn't make any different deputies from this chamber, this law fell through the last legislature with the application of 155 and the call for elections, and it fell after you had already made much progress in the legislative process. We believe that the emens process, the acceptance of emens enriched the text, made this bill of law a better project. And, therefore, I would like to begin by thanking the Members and Members who intervened in the question of the law: of course, the work of former Councillor Rull, who started this bill and who today is in pre-trial detention and a summary trial; former Member Hortènsia Grau, on behalf of my parliamentary group, and the rest of the Members, who for various reasons are no longer part of this Parliament, such as Mr Villagrasa, Mr Saladié or Mr Lloveras, and, of course, also Members Terrades and Mrs Bravo, who continue to be part of this Parliament. I believe that the whole process of exams significantly improved the text in some elements that were key for us. And, therefore, walk before our grace. From a situation I think it is difficult: we currently have a law of very old ports, which is practically already twenty-one years old, and there are more laws that are better covered than others, and this one I think is one of the laws that are worse covered, because in these twenty years they have emerged many times, has changed our society a lot, has changed our fabric product and they have also changed the object of welfare that is to be marked by the government. I'll quote some of the reptes we have on the table. We have a boom in creuerism, which we can have different opinions, but which strain our tourist model, strain our port model, also generates negative externalities for our cities. We have new European directives on common fisheries; we have objectives on environmental sustainability and pollution; we have urban plans for coastal cities, which are no longer tanked, which are no longer turning to ports, but try to integrate ports into the same urban fabric of the city and make them an area that is also suitable for cities and for finding and for municipal dynamism, and a port system that is surely oversized in our country. And, therefore, we believe that it is basic to change the legislative instrument with which we have built this port system; we are no longer at a time when we need to create an increase in port infrastructures, but the main objective must be to manage them at the height of the challenges we have as a country. We have, moreover, on the table an item that we didn't have two years ago and a half when this law was discussed, which is a coastal planning project. And here I would like to make an incis: I think that we should not always try to start the house by roofing; I think that the Coast Ordering Law should be an integral law that allows us to establish ambitious conservation objectives as well and that allows us to clearly define how we want to fit the different uses we have across our coast with these coastal conservation objectives, that we think we should share all the political forces to these elevations, and therefore we believe that this Coast Ordering Law should have been the law that after we have allowed ourselves to address specific problems like the port system to Catalonia, because if we do not, we tend to mess with problems in our legislative compartments that lie within a global territory. And, all that said, we'd like to highlight some aspects of this law. Many of us have already discussed the question; in some there was no agreement at that time and for us we still have some key points to discuss. The first, in terms of sustainable development. There are two aspects that are fundamental here: the contamination of our coast and also the coastal impact that the port system has. The ports have a direct impact on the dynamics of costs, on the coast of the Mediterranean, which, moreover, is a coast with a high biodiversity, and we have a port, practically, of middle, every seven kilometres of coast. And what we have proposed then and what we continue to propose today is that it should be an integral assessment of the environmental impact of our port system. And we're studying, too, if it fits, if it's oversized. I said before: we have a port for every ten miles of coast. We study the impact it has, consider whether it is effective for this oversize and study the possibility of introducing a moratorium for twenty or twenty-five years for the construction of new infrastructure on the coast. The second point, the one about the emission reduction. And here, with a specific consideration: I think that we should stop betting on tax systems that are unfair and that are ineffective to reduce emissions: to increase taxes and tax companies to reduce emissions is not only not working, it is not just a real incentive to reduce emissions, but it also distorts the principle of 'which pollutes, pays and which, therefore, has a public responsibility before citizenship, and it is a false solution, has not had a real impact on emissions. We plan real and ambitious targets for emission reductions and require all the economic actors involved to take on their responsibilities for the law. If we do with green taxation the same as we did with private pension funds, which is to improve them, it will pass the same as with the pension system: we will not ensure its sustainability, nor will we ensure positive effects, nor will we ensure that the model, in its conjunction, is just. In summary: for us the taxation and sanctioning regime of the law, which are two essential elements, must stop all actors from fulfilling the objectives that we set ourselves as the country; do not improve anyone because they have the will to do so or do not improve someone because it is more profitable to do so than to do it, but we all demand that we assume the responsibility that we have with the conservation of our coastline. And a third aspect – and with this I'm done – we have to build a system of ports that you post for public management and managed it participated with the company's joint venture. The coast is a common good and therefore it should also be planned as we plan to defuse the interlocking of private concessions and as we give more prominence to civil society and joint port management. In conclusion, we are glad that you have returned to Parliament. We are glad that after twenty years we can celebrate that we are re-deploying a new law of ports. And we will continue to work because it is ambitious objectives in terms of democracy, democratic management of our infrastructure, sustainable development and fair and democratic economic development objectives. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is then the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. The paragraph is made by the Member of Parliament, Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.124.0	Well, good morning. It seems to me they'll be lucky, because our intervention is shorter by empire. Let's go back to the debate and get the Ports and Sea Transport Act moving. In his time, we have already said in his presentation, in the period of discussions, that we, although it is certain that some interesting questions were introduced, did not agree with this approach and that we understood that it is a missed opportunity to actually exercise sovereignty and, therefore, to municipalize the ports. It has been shown that the Catalan port model is the heir of the Pujolism and based on the tourist speculation that touched the ground in 2008, and now it is the same government that once more is trying to reflect it by means of a further move towards total liberalisation of the sector and with a drastic detail of environmental guarantees. The development of the port sector to the principality of Catalonia is the other side of the miral of the urban tsunami that has sunk our coast during the past..., which has sunk the coast during the past thirty years. The facilities donated to the Generality with the objective of attracting capital for the construction of ports and the expansion of existing ones allowed the uncontrolled proliferation of dikes, soft and soft to the whole coast, becoming catalysts of the new urbanistic promotions that were piled up on the coast. Thus the construction of new ports was not a product of a territorial planning according to the needs of the country but based on the economic interests of the urban sectors. For this reason the Generalitat opted for the formula of concession in the construction and operation of the ports of new building; concessions that, once completed, have been extended in some cases until 2041. In addition the ports directly managed by the Generalitat have suffered a process of outsourcing of services to the extreme that currently the injection of private capital represents more than 70_percent of the investments previewed in the Pla de portes 2015-17, of more than 65_million euros. Today the consequences of the cylinder generated for the binocular port-urbanization are illustrative: it has already been said, forty-seven ports in the total of the Catalan coast, one port each disset_quilometres of coast; more than 36,000 moorings, and one means by boat only four days a year – only four days a year; a port system oversized but that has become a key part in the nautical tourism model of luxury and ostentation that has taken away other traditional and popular uses of the sea, of the ports and of navigation. Moreover, a port sector that has also been an active part of various schemes of corruption, such as the Pretória case with the Port of Empuriabrava or the concession of the luxury marina of the Port Vell, which involves the company Salamanca Nine SL, with its own tax havens; Antoni Vives, former director of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, and Sixte Cambra, director of the Port of Barcelona. The expectations of the port employer to achieve a new legislative framework that allows them to reflect the sector are materialized in this draft law that they present to us, that we return, I insist, to start the process: a port model privatized directly or indirectly. The bill submitted to the government is simply a letter of wishes of the sector. Specifically, the law stands out for five points – I will be brief. The drafting proposal totally rejects the willingness to manage both the Port of Barcelona and the Port of Tarragona, of state competence, and, therefore, have a cent_per_cent focus of dependence on the Spanish State. According to the priority is private management with models of commercial competitiveness between harbour infrastructures, encouraging the liberalisation of the sector. Third, the wording presents a strategy deficit in environmental repair. Fourthly, in the field of climate change, the law does not include the production of annual inventories of greenhouse gas emissions, necessary to establish objectives linked to the reduction of these gases, with some consequences for the brutal salvation of our home and of all Europe, and of this atmospheric contamination that is responsible for fifty_ thousand premature deaths in Europe. Recovering sobrieties; we say it all too often, this law is not to the expectation of this imperative need that we have in our country: to reverse the model of privatizations of Catalan ports articulating a clear response from municipalism that passes through the socialization of its management and the full recovery of the competitions over the ports of Barcelona and Tarragona is what we would like to be reading. From municipal management, municipal management must be the key, the key that guarantees the protection of the environment and marine ecosystems, as well as the right of access to live in the sea of the popular classes, because today living before the sea is a luxury good. To take care of the common thing, to recover sobrieties; this law is that it is not that I am at the calves, it is that it is very far away. Because, we insist, it's a letter to the King. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] reality on your part to give response to oligarchies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.125.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.126.0	...of the nautical sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.127.0	Thank you. And finally it's the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.128.0	Thank you, President; to position us in relation to this, formally, proposal of law presented for the groups of Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia. Formally, this is a legacy of a draft law approved by the Government, which was processed during the previous legislature, which passed the hearings, passed the work of papers, passed the entire opinion for the committee, and, indeed, the end of the legislature precipitated with the application of 155 prevented the final processing of this law from being completed. Therefore, we also add to the criticisms of all those who have made that someone is forced to apply 155, and that, therefore, it is that which has prevented, it is this attitude..., it has been these attitudes that have prevented this law from coming to light in the last legislature. Our group presented in this law fifty-two items, of which between transactions and acceptances there were no thirteen. So, we have a few of them that we can recover and possibly, after we reread the bill, so we can come up with some more. There are no substantial discrepancies, there is a coincidence in the importance that ports hold for our society, for the whole of society, but especially also for the municipality, and they have an import from the point of view of the rich generation, the generation of occupation, they have an import from the fishing point of view, from the commercial point of view, from the industrial point of view, also obviously from the touristic point of view and from the sport point of view. An important element, and that in this law, therefore, is concrete, is the fact of providing for these planning plans, the urban management plans, with the participation of the assemblies. It's true, if I'm allowed the lawsuit, I soc..., I was... – I was –, I was for a few years the governor in a port municipality, a municipality that was subject to debate too, in the debate of totality in this very Parliament, in Vilanova and Geltrú, and for many years, including as the governor, I didn't have the feeling but the conviction that the municipal term of our municipality ended right there when the port began, and that the port was another city, right? Fortunately, this model is far exceeded, yet there are elements that can be improved in conjunction, to improve the integration of ports into the cities and towns of Catalonia. The ports must have and have a very important interrelationship with the municipalities, and, therefore, it is also important that the creation of urban management plans is foreseen with the participation of the municipalities, because they are also precisely the municipalities that can say what they want to do in the ports that are in their municipal terms. So, said this, we have no problem, and that is why we have not presented ourselves to the whole in this bill, because we are restarting the process with the revision of the work that we wanted the deputies to do during the previous parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.129.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, and since there have been no totality reviews, this initiative can continue with its processing. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 6/2008, of May 13, of the National Council of Culture and the Arts (continuation)]] [[202-00047/12]] So let's go straight to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the proposed law amending Law 6/2008, May 13, the National Council of Culture and Arts. In accordance with Rule 138.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the deadline for the submission of the reports ends, and we shall now proceed to the debate on the joint reports submitted by the different parliamentary groups. In the first place the leading parliamentary groups will intervene, according to the order of entry into the register, and later the two groups, the two subgroups, forgive, will intervene, who have not submitted papers. According to what we agreed at the Bureau of Parliament, this turn of interventions will be five minutes for each parliamentary group and consequently two and a half minutes for the subgroup. In the first place, and to present the papers, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.130.0	Thank you, President. Deputies and deputies, members of the plenary of the Conca with their president, who accompany us, good morning to everyone. We have presented some technical aspects, in fact, to the suggestions of the press of the chamber, to finish clarifying some concepts, to harmonize the text, and because everything folds has coherence. Therefore, they are technical elements, which I believe do not completely distort the final content of the law's proposal, quite the contrary, which gives it more sense. I therefore also stand up to the considerations of the rest of the parliamentary groups. For what it does to the papers presented for Juntes for Catalonia and for the Republican Group, a statement has been withdrawn, so this will be withdrawn, and for what it does to the mood of modification of the transitory arrangement, we have signed a transactional, also a little with the same spirit of harmony and coherence of the conjunction of the text, and also commented with Parliament's letters, and perhaps even, after the votes, and when, therefore, we already have the approved text, probably also will require some small linguistic tact, something also of absolutely technical type. For what it does to the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia In Comú Pueblo, we will vote in favour without any problem added to it that they make to article 6 of the Law. And for what he does to the papers presented for the Ciutadans group, in fi, I find it hard to argue with an empordanès, but I have to say that, in fi, the papers that Mr. Amello poses on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group are papers that go to suppression. That is to say, what they propose is: we suppress everything, so that everything remains as it is, so that everything is blocked, that the Conca continues with the blocking situation that it currently has, and they propose – and I will comment on it now – in any case, something else quite different, right? Well, what I would say to the Ciutadans group is that it is telling the truth – that it is telling the truth – that it is saying that its project is that the Conca does not exist, that it does not have a sense of presence, that its model is another, that its model of cultural policy and incentive of cultural policies in our country is a model of politics, political direction, not cooperation and collaboration with the cultural sector of our country. Well, that's all right, but what I'm saying is clearly, it's not a search for subterfuge, is it? Why, look, the last one, huh? , the last report, without going further, which came to us yesterday, that the Conca presented it a few days ago: « Study of the non-formal educational offer in the artistic field of Catalonia. Well, here we are talking, therefore, about dance, music, dramatic art, plastic arts, visual arts, audiovisual arts, design, circus, etc. Look, listen to me, it seems to me that this is a very interesting and very important document and very important as it is because, man, as a minimum – as a minimum – we value the work that the Conca does. Perhaps insufficient, I should have done more, I should have done more; but as a minimum we value it positively, and therefore not block it. And then, what they're proposing is, well, they're talking about... a public contest, and people of renown prestige. In the first place, who calibrates that a person is of recognizable prestige of something? But it respects the most important issue, which is the public contest. On the basis of a presumptive transparency, you could..., the final conclusion that could be reached is: well, the sets that have the best note. Therefore, they can be all men, or all women, they can be all from Barcelona, they can be, for example, all in the film sector. So miri, no, no. I'm so sorry. He's not our model. Our model is that Conca is involved and formatted for diverse, plural people. We have made the proposal – and I finish, President – of four people, to whom we have not asked, what they are voting or whose party they are from. And, yes, we have accompanied a resume to show that they are people who are qualified to be part of the plenary of the Conca.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.131.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jenn Díaz has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.132.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Mr. Duarte, Mrs. Gisbert. Well, yesterday our intervention had to be on the one reading, but we did it on the Conca and on the basis of the amendment of the law, and today, that we should defend the papers, I go ahead to the speeches because I suspect they would go on the renewal of the plenary and the nominations, more than not from the papers. And well, go to the point that, of course, the name will have to be diverse, as Mr Bruguera said, it will have to be plural, and professional, and respond to the sensitivities and particularities of the sectors and also of the territory, and de facto equal. That the list of the renewal of the Conca passes for the Parliament does not mean that the deputies and the deputies have drunk us the understanding. It will have to be a list of consensus, and, as we said yesterday, as a defense of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it will have to be a list that works for the culture of this country and not to turn the plenary into the umpteenth ideological trinxera, repeating patterns and parliamentary dynamics that try to block the function and the common good, which is what it is about. Yesterday we spoke of the need to have a strong, independent Conca, which does its work with complete freedom, which accompanies with proposals, reports and assessments the culture of this country. I also come up with some proposals and reports, like the Bruguera company. Here I have a series of proposals to move forward, we have all the cultural spokespersons, and these proposals don't make them policies, these proposals don't make them partial or politicized plenary, don't make them disconnected people from the sectors, these proposals don't make them people alien to culture. The thought that Ciutadans proposed seems to us out of place, but these lifts are not surprised either. Citizens copy and paste the same premise for all the space they can't control. They talk to us about..., sometimes they talk to us about "neutrality, and this time of "honorability, and what they really want is to nullify dissent, limit freedoms, condition them to their ideas. We're on our way, we're on our way, we're on our way, we're on our way, we're on our way, we're on our way, we're on our way, we're on our way, we're on our way, we're on our way, Obviously, the plenary of the Conca, which depends on a parliamentary vote, will be professional, have experience and will not meet party criteria. Obviously. That we have to renew the Conca and do it in this chamber means nothing more than that, that the deputies and the deputies must act with responsibility, and with this honorability that Ciutadans asks the members of the Conca. We have to hold him in the first instance ourselves. Only with our compromise will we do so, demanding ourselves before we settle. We've been voted for this. The papers, as we were earlier today, are more technical, to protect, to give legal coverage and to stabilize to the plenary, because it has not repeated this situation of blocking and disengagement of the members of the Conca, and with this will, the Parliamentary Group of Socialists Unites per Avançar, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia In Comú May, the Parliamentary Group of Junta per Catalunya and the Republican Group agree a text that wants to respond to the hope we want for the Conca, and we do so in position, proposing and not destroying. And I'd like to make a reflection, which maybe you don't have to see with the modification, or maybe you do – and I take advantage of the time I need. From yesterday, all parliamentary groups have been holding back that the motions, the inquiries and the questions are being made in the elections; of housing, of local governments, we always accuse ourselves of this. And it is not less certain that the week of March 8th also most parliamentary initiatives were pouring over the woman. On the other hand, with this change in the law, which affects culture, no one accuses us of holding a rally or of having started the electoral campaign. No one is suspected of campaigning with culture, and it is probably one of the problems of parliamentary dynamics and the place we reserve for culture. I would like to be able to accuse the Socialists of electoralism, because this would mean that Catalonia's culture is decisive and conditions the campaigns, but unfortunately it is not. No one talks about electoralism, despite the fact that it is with culture and more culture that we will make societies more critical and democratic, and maybe that's what doesn't suit some political forces. Finally, on the agenda, we will vote in favour of the technical self-examinations, the agendas of the commons, and we will vote against the agendas of Ciutadans, because, I insist, we should have the honour of accrediting the Members of this House, who may not seem to us sometimes. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.133.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.134.0	Thank you, President. The honourable Member cannot accompany us because he is an institutional traveler at the Venice Biennale. Let's also greet the President of the Conca, the member of the plenary, Mr Francesc Vilaró, Secretary General of Culture, and all of you, deputies and deputies. Yesterday to the bustle there was the invitation letter to the National Prize of Culture, which organizes the Conca, for the next month of July. And we also had, as Bruguera has already mentioned, this report on the study of the non-formal educational offer, which from beginnings to end says things like now: "Understanding what educational role and what magnitude has non-formal education in our society is one of the most important challenges that should be considered from the perspective of diversity of disciplines, especially those related to culture and education. And the text ends: "We put an end to this study, but with some clearly visible suspense points. As we said earlier, the work has exposed many questions. The most undeniable is an extensive existence, a very tight texture, non-formal artistic education, etcetera. This is the Conca we want, the one we like, the National Cultural Awards and the study of observation, of advice for whom we are interested in cultural policies. It's a Conca that we want on condition and focused on its functions and on its good organization, and with a law, an articulate, that shields unforeseen situations, I said yesterday unusual and irregular. The modification of the law and the papers, which I hope will be accepted, will help us, as I said yesterday, that we have a Conca in these conditions and that the next step is, not far away, to propose the list of new names of the members of the Conca. So, let's get straight, especially with this new law, to move forward and also to reflect, which seems to me to fit into the framework we're dealing with today, so think about the same Conca if that's the case. It's up to me to pronounce on the papers. It has already been said, with the group proposing and with the Republican Group we have agreed on a series of technical and terminological issues, we have put it straight, that we believe this will facilitate the consolidation of the text and its legal effects. We accept the emena of commons, as a guiding principle that is fine if it is spelled out in the law. I like to say to him "principles, more than "quotas; surely it is more appropriate in the type of processing that we are doing today, a processing that we already say should be of simplicity of the formulation and appropriate to the nature of the project. From the Ciutadans Group. They make some considerations, so, quite rightly, completely elongated of the nature of the project and the simplicity of formulation, absolutely elongated, and, therefore, do not fail to make a proposal to process law modification for single reading with all this substantial change in the law. They're talking about public competitions for the election of members – it's already said here, so it's a different system – and they're talking about honorability, when we have men and women in prison loaded with reason, my lords. But, moreover, I would say that they have not understood much of the Conca or of cultural policy, of civil society, of participation and of the implications of the cultural world in the world of collectivity, of the public good, of the public thing, which does not mean the Government or the Parliament itself. Look, it seems to me that you are on the wheel of the hamster, getting wet and getting wet, and until your proposals, ideas and projects continue to come down from this grunt, so no matter what, I'm sorry, but it seems like you're out of orbit like this. Civil society, cultural policy, collectivity, the public good, the common good, in this country, for many years, interacts with the Government of the Board of Museums. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.135.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Hector Amello has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.136.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I want to thank the members of the Conca for their work all these years. And now I'm going to get to the bottom of it. Look, gentlemen of the PSC, I'm going to tell you the truth, as I always do, tell the truth. We don't want no fingers, nor do we want cake. And what we want is for professionals to access the public service and access these positions of representation through merit and capacity. And that can only be achieved through a contest. [[Greetings.]] On the other hand, separatist parties hear the name ‘public contest' and run out. And I'm not surprised. Forty years of clientelism and corruption is what they have, what is normal, a public contest to gain access to a public representation post, they are horrified. And that is what has happened to you here now, who want to run when you hear a public contest, because so you can't plug your friends into positions of representation that we pay among all Catalans. And, look, yesterday I was telling you that this is not the debate that the Conca deserves. And it is not, this is not the debate that the Conca deserves. What needs to be discussed about the Council of Culture and Art is about the model, about the background, about the functions, about how to get the Conca to fulfil its mandated functions, and to do so independently because it can't do it now, and with true devotion to culture and art. And forgive me for repeating this, because I will repeat it as many times as it takes, the debate we need is about modeling and functions, and a substantive debate. This amendment to the law proposed by the PSC today does not change anything at all. And in view of the amendments that the various groups have tabled on the plenary session of the Conca, what will continue to be is a placement agency. To make this legal stuff they're doing today and they're cooking, because we think it's better to do absolutely nothing, it's better not to do anything. If you want to keep fingering friends in a public body at the expense of all citizens' taxes, for that you don't need to change the law, what you need is cake. I told you yesterday, bake a little, bake a little between the PSC and the separatist parties, that the president presents the list of friends, vote, they will have a majority, and they will have already renewed the council. And so we save ourselves a debate on a law amendment that brings absolutely nothing. Look, with this debate, what they seem to want to hide is that the PSC and the separatist parties have already reached an agreement on renewal. But what happens is they need an excuse to make it public. The system of choosing an organ such as the Council of Culture and Art cannot be the finger. The Conca cannot be a politicized body, linked to the election of the president. The fingers do not guarantee objectivity, nor guarantee independence, nor guarantee rigour, nor generate the confidence with which the Conca should operate. I repeat to you the same as yesterday: do not count on us to bake, let alone to whitewash the inefficient management of the separatist parties. That's why we already have you, gentlemen of the PSC, and we also have the commons, who do that very well, whitening. We want to eliminate the fingers and we also want to eliminate the fingers to choose the members of the Conca. What we in Citizens want is for the plenary to be elected by public contest – public contest, not running, public contest – through objective tests where the merit and capacity are the most important, where any citizen of recognized prestige in the field of culture and art has the opportunity to present himself. That is what we want you to pick up this law, a contest to elect the members of the plenary. But it is that, in addition to wanting to eliminate the fingers, so typical of old politics, we also want to put an end to the revolving doors. Those persons who are part of the plenary of the Conca, at the end of their term of office, will not be able to accept any office linked to the public administration in the two years following the end of their term of office. And, finally, all the people who are part of the plenary of the Conca must accredit a full honorability. This means, inter alia, that persons convicted, disqualified or suspended from holding a position or public service may not be part of the plenary for the duration of the sanction. While you propose a law of the Conca where all appointments are made by finger, while you want to continue to keep your friends in the Conca, while you want to continue with the politicization of the plenary of the council, while putting at risk the independence of the Conca, its objectivity and its rigour, we propose you an election of members for a public contest, where the merit, capacity and professional prestige of citizens freely presented on equal terms to a public contest to hold a position of responsibility in a public body prevails. I believe that today the difference between his model of fingers and friends and our model of public contest based on merit and capacity, the difference between his model of pasteling and our model of rigour and objectivity, between old politics and new politics, between the past and the future is evident. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.137.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, it is the turn of the MP Concepción Abellán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.138.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputies... and deputies... and greetings to the members of the Council of the Conca. As we made progress yesterday in the intervention, we believe that the situation of the Conca has reached such a level of demeanor that we will not stop the Council from being renewed as soon as possible and thus ensuring its functioning. That is why we will vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the PSC and the amendment that have been negotiated with Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra. Members of Ciutadans, although we could agree on the advantages of public competitions, it seems to us at least unusual that they propose that those who form the council have not had a relationship with the world of culture in the last five years. To be part of a cultural entity do they want someone who does not come from the world of culture but with a background and experience in the subject matter? It seems contradictory to us, and that is why we cannot therefore support the amendment. We also find it a pity that we have not been able to seize the opportunity to establish the different durations for the members of the council and thus ensure their continuity in the margins of political change. This was the spirit of the Conca and we believe that it should remain so. Even so, we find that the Government has confused guaranteeing political independence with letting themselves die of starvation, and has quietly assisted from the Council of Culture to the restructuring of the Council of 2011, waiting for it to fall by itself. Well, look, no; the council will be changed, and, as we said yesterday, we will also place the other groups to recover the Conca with its powers and competences. And, if our amendment is adopted, the council will be changed as envisaged in the original Conca, with criteria of parity, territorial and generational balance, as it should be in all public entities. We will recover the culture for the citizens independently of their battles of the process, which apparently have not given them time to anticipate this situation and in the last eighteen months they have not seen that the Council of the Conca was going to be empty. But you keep saying that you work and prioritize culture. Let us remember what I said yesterday: 0.7_per_cent of the budget instead of the 2_per_cent required by the Parliament, and the Council of the Conca, desert. Well, if that's how they deal with their priorities, it's hard for me to imagine what they're doing with secondary. The Conca is born of a demand and a demand from the cultural sector; it must renew cultural policies, improve them, expand them and stabilize support for creation. It is an institution inspired by the Anglo-Saxon model to maintain the promotion of culture and the exclusion of the Government. And one of your duties is to advise you on cultural policy. And I say again, with all this, did they not realize that he was left without any members with an existing mandate? It is very difficult for me to decide whether you believe or have ever believed in the Conca or whether you want it to become extinct without making noise and allow you to decide unilaterally in culture also by making deaf ears to the cultural sector. We and we believe in the Conca and culture as a social right for all citizens. Therefore, go ahead with the renewal of the council and we discuss the model of the Conca later to recover what for the citizenry. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.139.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, in order to position herself, she has the word, first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy, Ms. Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.140.0	Good morning, again. I'll be brief. Yesterday we tried to set up..., we consider, as we have shown in this chamber, especially in the previous legislature, that yes, that, in this case, on this occasion, we agree with Ciutadans: the Conca has become a politicized council, and we repeat again, for the PSC and for Convergence and Union, that, at the length of its history, the members have not been selected, and that, moreover, it has consolidated a trajectory of not taking into account the sectors of culture and the arts, and that, in the band, we understand from our point of view that it has a special concern or interest in that part of the more mercantilitated culture, thus exclude much of the basic and popular cultural movements. We are aware that this is a process..., a method of transporting a piece to an organ that is ill and needs a deep reflection and debate that has not been held. In fact, we reviewed, in relation to the last parliamentary term, the eleventh parliamentary term, some motions, the CUP proposal or even the PSC proposal, with transactions that had been made, where we were in place to have real debates on the function of the Conca. We believe that we need to delve into the debate on the planning of artistic teachings, of all, with the professionals and workers of the sector, as well as to establish a tax treatment for the proper and non-state culture, and also, as has been said, to recover the skills of the same Conca. We believe that it is a bureaucratic, self-referential mass organ with much reports and little ability to intervene, little real autonomy and an endogenous mass. Warmer presupposition, more transparency, more dialogue with the world of culture and more capacity for concrete intervention. But, well, we'll make it easier for this frame to pull forward. I take advantage of the last few seconds of the intervention, from the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, to welcome the Members and Members who leave Parliament: former Councillor Laura Borràs, in Gerard Gómez, Mrs Inés Arrimadas and, perhaps, also, no? Mr. Iceta. We welcome them, we thank them for their work, but we also say that we are concerned about how empty they are leaving this Parliament and how little importance and priority they are giving it. This is a matter that concerns us and we disagree with.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.141.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.142.0	Thank you, President. Well, to position us on this question very quickly, we would ask three questions. The first is: does the Conca need a profound reform? Yeah. What could affect even your entire election system? Also. We are not convinced that the system of competitions was the most appropriate, frankly, for an organization that at the head and at the end has to advise, but, well, everything could be talked about; in any case, it would require a much deeper debate than the initiative we are debating today. The second question is: has it been discredited, in some way, in the last governments? So too; it is a widely shared position for different political formations. And the third question: is it true that the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, in the last few months, has a small disconcerts to the constitutionalists with their own initiatives? So too. But I have to say – I have to say – that, although I have tried very hard to find in this concrete proposal a genuineness before separatism, I have not found it, sincerely. It is that we are talking about such a technical issue, to fill a legal void that has us in a situation of paralysis, that frankly I do not think that the debate that has taken place today from the table by certain groups is the adjunct for which we have to vote. Therefore, we will vote on a series of favourable points, after some others we do not, but in any case we share the bulk of the proposal that is coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.143.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Hector Amelló Montiu asks to speak.]] Excuse me. Yes; say'm, Mr. Amello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.144.0	For contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.145.0	Say it. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.146.0	It has been said that we did not want people related to culture; it is false. In our amendment to add, in 3.2, he says that we want people who enjoy a recognized prestige in the field of culture and the arts, with more than fifteen years of trajectory, and what we do not want is people who have been linked for the past five years to interest groups, that is, lobbies who may have a spurious interest in culture. So, we wanted to make this clear. And we also want to see this point, namely 3.2, before the vote, so that it is clear what our amendment is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.147.0	I'm supposed to tell you what I'm talking about, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.148.0	Amendment No 1, point 3.2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.149.0	Thank you. [[Rafel Bruguera Battle asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Bruguera; say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.150.0	Mr President, quite briefly, for contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.151.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.152.0	The Ciutadans Parliamentary Group has no problem in presenting a person who, on his behalf, is part of the Democratic Memorial, without asking for public contests. In change, in the Conca, yes. My question is: won't anyone find that I agree to be proposed for Ciutadans? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.153.0	Thank you, Congressman. We will vote on the items that will correspond to article by article following the order and numbering that appears in the plenary file and that all of you have, and, in the end, we will vote on the transactional issue between the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units and the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group. And finally, we will vote in a single vote on the joint initiative. Before... tell me, Mrs. Sánchez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.154.0	By separate vote of the point..., of the item number 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.155.0	No, we'll vote on all the papers separately...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.156.0	Oh, you got it. I didn't get it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.157.0	...and in the end a vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.158.0	The transaction...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.159.0	...of the joint, huh? [[Pause.]] So, let's vote... we'll vote, as we say, the exams. I am sure, in this sense, that the issue number 5, presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group, has been withdrawn. Let us then proceed to the vote. We shall begin with item number 1, which has been asked to read point 3.2, if I am not mistaken, of Article 3.2. I'll ask Secretary Pérez to read point 3.2. And we'll vote for the number one item next.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.160.0	Yes, thank you, President. Point 3.2: "Growing a recognizable prestige... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. It would be: "People who are eligible to be nominated for Parliament will have to complete the following requirements: 3.2, enjoy a recognizable prestige in the field of culture and the arts, with more than fifteen years of trajectory, and will not have had any political link or work for any entity that may be considered an interest group in the five years prior to submitting their candidacy. When the members of the National Council of Culture and Arts finish their term of office, they will not be able to accept anything linked to the public administration in the two years following the end of their term of office.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.161.0	Thank you very much. Let us now vote on item 1, tabled for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 36 votes to 86, with 5 abstentions. And let's now vote on item 2, tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, in addition to a new article 1a, amending paragraph 2 of Article 6 of the Law. The vote on the item number 2 begins. This item was approved by 122 votes to 4, with 1 abstention. We now vote on Rule 3, tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which deletes Article 2 of the bill. The vote on Emena No. 3 begins. The item number 3_was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 87 against and 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on item 4, tabled for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, amending Article 2. The vote begins. This item was adopted by 87 votes to 36, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on item 6, tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, which deletes the transitional provision of the bill. The vote begins. The item number 6_was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 87 against and 4 abstentions. Tables 7 and 8 have been negotiated and will therefore be voted on at the end. We shall therefore proceed to vote on item 9, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, in addition to an derogatory provision. The vote begins. This item was adopted by 79 votes to 8, with 40 abstentions. Let's now vote on item 10, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, in addition to the second paragraph of the motius presentation. The vote begins. This item was adopted by 90 votes to 36, with 1 abstention. And let's now vote point 11, presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, amending the paragraph set of the motion statement. The vote begins. The item number 11 was adopted by 87 votes to 35, with 5 abstentions. We continue to vote now on the compromise between item 7 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, and item 8 of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republic Parliamentary Group, amending the transitional provision. The vote begins. This item was adopted by 87 votes to 36, with 4 abstentions. And finally we are voting now on the rest of the text of the bill's proposal and the joint initiative. The vote begins. The rest of the text of the bill was adopted by 86 votes to 36, with 4 abstentions and 1 Member who did not vote. [[Greetings.]] We suspend the session until three-quarters of the late four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.162.0	Well, good afternoon. [[Inquiries to the Government on job insecurity]] [[300-00125/12]] Let's resume the session with the agenda item, which is the question to the Government on job insecurity, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. To expose the inquiry, has the word the deputy Yolanda López. [[Pause.]] I hope a_second, Mrs. Lopez, I hope a_second. It's just that we're hoping that there's some secretary in the Bureau to start...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.163.0	Okay... I thought we were just gonna be the counselor and me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.164.0	Yes... one second. [[Pause.]] I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.165.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Last May 1st, Mr. Counsellor de Treball said that defending labour rights is the best way to make a republic. Counselor, we should start telling the truth. You want to make us believe that you are defenders of labour rights, but the truth is that you do nothing to defend labour rights. And this is not what we say, it's what the data says. Recently, the Barcelona Chamber of Commerce produced a report saying that the Catalan economy has grown more in GDP than the average of the European Economic and Monetary Union, but has redistributed less wealth, as this has not resulted in an improvement in people's well-being. Productivity in Catalu..., to understand us, because I will show it to you in a graph [[The orator shows a graph to the chamber.]] Catalonia's productivity is growing, while wages are falling, and here in the middle we could put: "Inequality. Moreover, the report notes that there is a stagnation in the purchasing power of households, despite GDP growth. This job insecurity and the rise of the figure of the poor worker we are suffering has already been denounced by various bodies such as the OECD or the Airef. And I think that you should start rethinking this, you should start rethinking the acronyms of your party. Because perhaps you say you are on the left, Mr Councillor, and perhaps the e has fallen from your acronyms and, perhaps, in the municipal and European elections, you should be more sincere and present yourself only with error and ce, because the reality is that you are only favoring high incomes and your friends who dine caviar. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, in Catalonia there are already about 400,000 employees who are at risk of poverty. People in Catalonia have growing problems reaching the end of the month. And far from stagnating, this figure continues to grow: from 2013 to date, the figure has risen by more than 17_per_cent, making one_of_ten workers in Catalonia currently poor. It's a real drama. While you continue to do nothing, the figures continue to grow and grow and grow, and in recent years these are: 76,5_per_cent of the Catalan part-time workers earned less than EUR 1,000, 50,9_per_cent of the employees on temporary contracts had a salary of less than EUR 1,299, 71,2_per_cent of the children under 15 have an average gross salary of less than EUR 1,229, part-time employment has grown more than 10_per_cent and the same percentage has been reduced in full-time employment. Labour conflicts continue to increase: Nestlé, Codorniu, Vodafone, Nissan, Prysmian, Gallina Blanca, the Kellys... Currently, there are more than 518,000 people who have higher education than they demand in their jobs. About 125,000 single-parent families are at risk of poverty because of the female face of job insecurity. The gender pay gap remains close to 25_per_cent in Catalonia and, in the percentage of the lowest incomes, reaches up to 40_per_cent. And the partialization of employment is a 15_per_cent greater in women. Occupational accidents continue to increase in Catalonia. Specifically, in the demarcation of Tarragona – my demarcation – there are twenty-five work accidents every day. In just one year, the sinestrality grew throughout the area, highlighting the Priorat, with more than 14_per_cent, or the Baix Penedès, with more than 12_per_cent. This is reflected in the report on labour injury in Catalonia, prepared by the UGT. Over the past year, accidents at work left eighty-two deaths in Catalonia, the main reasons for which have been the precarious situation and the lack of prevention. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government: job insecurity kills and ills women workers more than tobacco. Precarious workers are between two and seven times more likely to suffer from depression. In Catalonia, only the cost of this illness already amounts to more than 736_million_of_euro per year, if it includes health care costs, loss of working hours and a decrease in quality of life. This is what his own Department of Salvation, of his government, presents. And this says it in number..., and this is said by studies that have documented the relationship between unemployment, job insecurity and poor health. It is unacceptable that you continue to do absolutely nothing and there are still much harder figures, on account of this precarious labour market, and it is that Catalan households which do not receive income from work continue to increase. A 48_per_cent in the last decade. Approximately 190,000 Catalans suffer from long-term unemployment. I mean, they've been out of work for over a year. The labour market is precarious, punishes and is unable to generate quality occupation, especially for those older than forty-five years, and we are seeing the outflow of fraudulent use of young fellows for jobs in our universities. What have you done to prevent prestigious Catalan universities such as Pompeu Fabra or Barcelona Polytechnics from being investigated for fraudulent use of job seekers? Are you really going to keep making us believe that you work? Are you really going to continue laughing at groups that suffer from the drama of precariousness, such as the Kellys? This government has provoked a hot spring; users and workers in the public sector are shouting at them that Catalonia needs a government to reverse cuts, and you are not only allowing the precariousness of workers' lives, but are also degrading public services.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani, now has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.167.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs and MPs, MPs and MPs who have just completed their dinars and arrived at this House at the time... Look, MP, I think that sometimes, more than just questioning, we make monologues. I'll try not to make a monologue, huh? I'll try to answer your questions. I do believe that, at the outset, you clearly set out what is the objective of this inquiry: the objective of this inquiry – you yourself have placed it – has continued to speak and place a mark before elections, both municipal and European. Even so, you – and everything – have gone to talk about the acronyms of a party that is in which the militia, in which you do not fight, and have gone straight as we have to say, as we have to stop saying, giving us lessons about what is our thinking or what is no longer our thinking... In the end, we are ahead of what it is used to be, therefore, a parliamentary cynicism exercise, but basically, thought of a dynamic of keeping the video, of being able to hang the video on Twitter, and not so much of being able to propose, being able to see how we will do it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He says: "Yes, yes, you do what you want, but they have done it. Because, of course, until we do an exercise that I say, and I say it in a very honest way, and I think that all of us should have some sort of exercise – it is this exercise to try to simplify things so much and to treat our fellow citizens as people who have no proper criteria. And I'm also saying it, because I think it's worrying, and I think it's very worrying when we talk about a rock like job insecurity. When we talk about one of the key elements, to hear us, how to be citizens and citizens of ple right; one of the key elements, to hear us, how we emancipate ourselves and how we can have a decent life. I'm telling you from that perspective. From here, you, during your intervention, have said – I have tried to count it –, I believe that on six occasions, that we do nothing, that we do not work, that we do nothing... As it is an inquiry, I will explain what we do. It's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all But I do believe that the citizenship of this country, our fellow citizens, our lives and our lives, deserve much more intellectual respect. And I say it very clearly. In the field of labour relations, how do we work? We work in the basic field of social concertation. We're aware that we don't have all of them. And I always explain it: don't keep all the tools, don't do it and don't let you not use the tools you have – don't keep all the tools, don't do it and don't let you use all the tools you have. We are aware that we don't have the legislative capacity; the legislative capacity that you haven't talked about, it's funny, it's very funny, since you've talked about Maig's First, and even so, you mentioned me, around my statements the Maig's First. I could have quoted myself in all your statements, but well, I guess that's not a priority for you: about labor reforms, and it has nothing to do with the situation on the labour market. I suppose that must be it. On the other hand, in this concert, what we are working on is basically from the field where we can have an impact on the normal market. And what's going on? So, working hand in hand, with unions and employers in front of collective bargaining and social concertation. It's an indirect way we can have this element of influence. Other areas we deal with, from this point on: the promotion of preventive culture in matters of safety and occupational health. And you've given us figures, and it's that the figures are from the Department, I don't need to remember them, I mean, we're absolutely aware of the increase in accident charges. Also, the recovery of certain sectors; the recovery of the construction sector, which has always been one of the sectors where this has been given more directly. And from here on out, the one we're working on – and now I'm going to explain it – in an inspection..., how we're working on the wreck of the work accident and what represents one of the things that has to make us look at the Mirall in a much clearer way, and make us think what we're doing, that's that a person can put his life in danger, to work. From here, on a job inspection, I'll give you a few figures. More than anything else to locate him, huh? , because we can say: « In fem res, in fem res we can say..., or we can explain what he does. And from here, assume that there are repres that we must continue to make them. In 2019, one of the key elements in the job inspection is the Pla de lutta contre el fraudo de la contractação temporaria, which is one of the aspects that very few people report, and that we are aware that it is one of the most important problems. Miri, I will give you an example: during 2018, 267 complaints were investigated for irregularities in the contract – 267 complaints–; on the other hand, offices were investigated directly by the inspection 1,797 companies, because we are aware that in many cases not above the complaint: 267 complaints, 1,797 companies, offices. I think it's important to situate it. On another side, I guess, this 2019, we're expecting around two-thousand inspection expeditions in this matter, in the fraud in the temporary contract. This has allowed us – that we don't do anything, that we don't do anything else – in 2018, to transform eleven_ thousand temporary contracts into indefinite ones. Not to mention, it's not bad, is it? Ah, this represents an increase of 25_per_cent of what we did in 2017. I think it's also interesting to situate it. In the area of fighting against work leftlessness, the planning for 2017 has three elements: the work centres with fewer than two workers, a total of 2,478 planned actions–; the construction sector – already situated there, is one of the actors where it is given more –, with a total of 1,332 planned actions, and on the other hand the work centres where there have been minor accidents, because it is also a way to prove whether the working conditions of these places have been given these accidents have been corrected and to prevent after that they can be placed heavy or very heavy accidents. Also explain to him that of the two-thousand inspectors around the temporary contract fraud, that we work in a systematic way, with a tool we have, that we share with the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, of the State – he knows that Catalonia has two inspections, I suppose he knows. And this tool, which is the anti-fraud tool, allows us to detect companies with working contracts and serves determined forty-eight months of duration. There are companies that have chained temporary contracts of more than twenty-and-four months in the last thirty_months. It's systems, I mean, there's a lot of good professionals in the administration who do a lot of good work. I think that from time to time..., it is very good that we criticize the political leaders – and it forms part of our work, accept the criticism – but I think that as long as we should measure certainly expressions that we use with enough lightness. Other aspects. The fight against labour discrimination, and especially in the area of home-gender equality. Also introducing other aspects: during 2018, specific trainings were given for the first time to inspectors and labour inspectors on discriminations to the LGTBI collection in the field of labour relations, to give an example. From here, where have we gone and what have we managed to do? Therefore, an increase in the activities in the field of employment discrimination, and in particular we have planned 595 inspection expeditions around the work integration of workers with disabilities or with various abilities, to guarantee the compliment of the Lysmi quota, and we will continue to work around these areas. From here, I put it: the complexity is that, by a lot of inspection, if there is no regulation that allows democracy to return to the world of work – that is, the equality at the time of the negotiation between the parties – that is not conducive to precariousness, so you have limitations. But this... we'll continue to use inspection, active occupation policies. And I could explain how we're focusing active employment policies on the most vulnerable groups, and we're talking about women, we're talking about migrant people. We are proud to be the first administration of a territorial government in Europe that has made business plans to regulate the administrative situation of people who are very old in this country and who are in administrative irregularity. And we say this with pride: we are the first regional administration, at European level, to do so. And we will continue to work around these areas. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I leave to myself the full share of professional training, which we could have discussed, because it is also absolutely necessary at the time of taking over the people before the labor market. Because we also have this very clear: the only way we can take over...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.168.0	You're out of your mind, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.169.0	... people... – yes, I finish, president – the only way we can take over people in a labor market that changes is with a good qualification...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.170.0	Time's up, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.171.0	...professional at the stage and the ability to re-qualify at the length of his life. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.172.0	Then there's a new word from Congresswoman Yolanda López for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.173.0	Thank you. Predictable; predictable, counselor, to tell me about labor reforms; always tells me. I already know that labor reforms are doing a lot of damage in both Spain and Catalonia. Obviously, we are always saying that we must repeal them; we always tell the Socialist Party. I also know very well that there is cooperation between the State security forces in labour inspection. But I also know..., more than anything because I have informed myself, I have had two meetings with the Director General of Labour Inspection, and I also know for her that she needs more labour inspectors and that her Government denies them. And, well, from the motion, the motion that will come after this inquiry..., the election period will have passed, we will see then also if you do not answer that it is for electoral propaganda. Look, Mr. Counselor, even when they're given the job done, they're capable of getting to work. The neglect of this social government is unusual, they don't even work to be able to implement the measures that are instigated in this Parliament, and they have been given a few and have been given a few tools, eh? In this legislature we have given you very good tools, such as the creation of the tourist quality seal for hotels that exercise good practices in the field of labour rights with their workers, a proposal that helps to curb the precarious situation that suffers a large part of the workers in the hospitality sector, a sector that is very important for the economy in Catalonia. What have you done? Absolutely nothing. Moreover, Mr. Counsellor, you are laughing and scorning the struggle of the floor waitresses, of the Kellys; I insistly tell you that we hope that they will be able to give a more convincing answer than this one. And here's your signature, huh? This is the answer you have given me. And you know what it is? What you don't plan to do, set up the tourist quality seal just because you don't want to, okay? I repeat, you think..., you have been given tools; we will again give you in a motion more tools, for what? , to alleviate job insecurity. And I don't know if ever, then, everything that is urged here thinks so..., they plan to do it or they plan to continue with political inaction. I'd rethink it for you, you'd replant it for me, because your advice really doesn't work. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.174.0	It has the word now, for the final reply, the advisor Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.175.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs..., MP, yes, it is predictable; it is predictable that the councillor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families of the Generalitat, a councillor who is said Chakir El Homrani Lesfar, spoke about the derogations of labor reforms. It's absolutely predictable. If you know me and if you know a little bit my trajectory is absolutely predictable. What is certainly not predictable is that a party and a political force like its own, a parliamentary group like its own, which have various parties, did not talk about labour reform in a first question about job insecurity. The labor authority, and in this case in the field of inspection, has a great deal of importance – they are not the security forces of the State – they have a great deal of importance, they coordinate. And if you've spoken to a senior department officer like the Director General of Labour Inspection, a senior department and government officer, who knows exactly what the situation is, I can assure you that he won't tell another government officer that the government is passing this reality. It won't happen. You said it; you said it from this Faristol. From time to time it would be good if we controlled what we gave. Just like you, if you tell me: "What I do is exercise my obligation to control the government..., what I would just miss..., which the parliamentary groups have to do, when I answer it with approved measures for a young man who is working in the framework of the Labour Relations Council, and now he doesn't agree..., you say: "So we can talk about it. From here, I would preach: this parliamentary fencing in part, nothing happens, nothing speaks of anything. And we can... but there's a time when, like you say, I'm laughing at the face of not knowing who, I think I need a little bit of respect, because you don't know personal paths or what certain professional backgrounds mean, that I've probably experienced them a lot more than you do. With which, we measure certain elements. From here – from here – I will continue to explain some elements to you, and some elements surround some sectors that I also know are of great concern to you. And an example of how we can act before that. One element: acting the work we've been doing around the meat industry, which in the end begins to see'salts' results. We can see that, in a context of growing employment in the sector, in the past year, 32,443 workers, we have gone from 9,548 to 5,051, and, in change, we have gone from 22,696 people in the general rule to 27,392. I believe that this is an example of a strategy that we have developed since the work inspection, with the efforts of the General Directorate of Labour Relations as well, and in a concerted manner, has been answered. To give an example. Another example is seeing from here a moment, that we also have an inquiry, which is the work that we have done with the agreement on the work of cures and the street in order to visualize surely the most invisible collection that suffers precariously. I'm double precarious. Because the submerged economy leads to a precarious situation around the papers. And I'll keep working on it. And we have to generate... And they're very big reps. And I'm first that I'm very self-critical in many ways, but I think that we should be much more curative at the time of explaining the reality as it is, I don't touch the rod and I solve it, because that's not it – because that's not it. Even when you're talking to me about regulatory expedients, you don't remember there's no administrative authorization for regulatory expedients. And that's why I'm very proud of the big job that's mediating in the department, and it works, and they're very good professionals, very good workers and workers. And from here on out, we'll keep working. There are other examples, in the social economy; in this country there has never been a reversal of what has been invested in the social economy and in the promotion of co-operativeism, when the year has passed the year that has been the most generated, that more co-operatives have been generated in the history of this country: 210. And this – and this – is a great example of us being very clear about what our model is and what we are working on. And if you think that we need to get the "left of our name" out of your sight. I will not make them any type of recommendation to you, because I am quite respectful of your political strength. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.176.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the recognition of the work of cures and the regularization of the sector]] [[300-00128/12]] We pass the 14th item of the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the recognition of the work of cures and the regularization of the sector, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. You have the word to explain the question to Congresswoman Rut Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.177.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, therefore, to welcome the entities that are with us today in this inquiry. Well, counselor, today I want the voice of all the women who carry many years of struggle and, unfortunately, they are silenced. They, day after day, work and battle the goal of promoting legal changes to improve the conditions of workers in the area of education and care for people. The workers of the island are a specially feminine and largely formed collection for migrant women, and this sector, unfortunately, is characterized by low wages and, often, the absence of employment contracts. In recent years, the feminization of immigration has increased; therefore, there are many more women who make the decision to leave their homes and go looking for a better future. Many of them make this decision to escape many years of poverty, to be able to find a job and help their families and, even more, to escape situations of violence. When they arrive, the closest job offer they find is to take care of the home or the people. They are dedicated to taking care of children, large people, dependent persons or persons of functional diversity. They are dedicated to taking care of people when, at their homes, at their origins, they have had to leave their children and their relatives, and no one remembers that. Just as it is not remembered that they spend the day caring for others, but no one cares for them. That's why today we're living insults from precariousness. Some of them are strange women in an irregular situation, and this always leads them to be unable to hold a contract of employment and to ignore their labour rights and to suffer social isolation. From this sector, we also have to denounce the submerged economy, to which we also refer before the councillor in the previous inquiry, accompanied by the low regulated contract, very low wages, working hours of twenty-four hours, lack of health protection, work and retirement. There are women workers from the lar and the cure to the people who live to work; they are internal from the houses, and they carry out a day of semi-slavery work, without oblivion that some of them have suffered labor and sexual exploitation, and that they have not denounced it for lack of knowledge of their labor, social and even human rights. On the other hand, it is not an exceptional case that most of them are prevented from being registered at home where they work and reside, since they are internal. This reality was accompanied by many discriminations; the most outstanding, the inability to achieve family reunification with their children, nor the social relationship. It is also another reality that, while having children here, it is not possible for them to live with them, by regulation of the cases where they are internal. The most recent analyses of the Centre d'Etudes et Recherche syndical note that foreign women present a worse work situation than foreign men, with a lower activity and a lower occupation, while their rate of work is higher than that of men. Moreover, it should also be noted that foreign women suffer from a worse employment situation than Spanish women; therefore, we are before a clear discrimination, to be given and migrated. For what he does to the tasks of home and the care of people, the data indicate that, for every woman of Spanish nationality who dedicates herself to it, there has been no foreign nationality. In change, it has to be taken into account that of the total female employment of foreign women represents only 12.4_percent of the total. Therefore, it is clear that of the total number of workers in Catalonia, more than half are migrated. On the other hand, and as I have already commented, it is also a reality the great difference between the number of social security affiliates and the number of foreign occupations in the work of the home and the cures. Reports tell us that there are more than 25_per_cent of the workers in the home who are contractless, eight times more than the total employment of foreign women. Also, what every time is most common is the new common profile that appears in the sector: woman, young and migrated. It is a 12_percent of the young foreign population that is dedicated to the tasks of the street and the healing of people, and almost 100_per_per_cent are girls. For this reason, it should be noted that the vast majority of girls arriving in Catalonia usually work at home and in the cure. The migrant young woman occupies mostly low-skilled jobs, particularly when compared to young people's jobs with Spanish nationality. And, unfortunately, the task-to-home and curative sector today is considered low-skilled, and that can reverse it. We must also add and claim that the girls of migrant families born in Catalonia have the label and play the same roles as their mothers. Young people enter the sector, and this fact was accompanied by an early abandonment of the studies and, as a result, the school failure, victims of stigma and stereotyping, which were very few doors and decided to dedicate themselves to the sector. But if there was a regulation many of the violations that affect the collection would no longer exist, and this today must be our objective. For many years, the workers have self-organized to form one another and defend their rights. They've organized, they've taken over, and they don't intend to back down. As they show, for various reasons they made the decision to cross borders and look for possibilities that the world offers them, but during the journey they have had to challenge many of the situations. That's why they've pooled the potentials of each of them, they've pooled their efforts, creativity, and ideas, to overcome all these wires and interbanks that are found on the way. But, as they explain, many of the interbanks that are found can be solved whenever they know the tools. But today many of these things are still unknown. That is why it is necessary to make manifest that a few years ago it is created the Table in Defense of the Rights of the Workers of the Llar, the Neteja and the Cure – in part entities like Libelulas, Women Pa'ante, Various Women and Sindillar, together with the unions that also accompany us and the Government – with the aim of taking to the light its reality and going to one to end the discriminations that the sector usually suffers, and thus channeling the demands and improving it. Faced with the unseen and silenced reality in which the vast majority of workers in the world and the cure live, in this spiral to which this patriarchal and paternalistic society engages us, in which we are all submerged, I want hard the sight of all these combative women who want to launch the message of struggle for social, educational, educational and labour inclusion. They all claim to eliminate all forms of discrimination, and specifically in this case work, which suffer every day, such as labour law and social security, and in particular exclusion from the provision of work, retirement, and free accommodation. Another important element of discrimination and which has serious defects is the health of workers. That's why it's important to end the sector's exclusion from the Occupational Risk Prevention Act, and now it's time to recognize the occupational diseases they suffer. They call for the recognition of industry's work experiences and for training measures to be adapted to their hourly availability. They ask to be trained and informed and to have access to all types of information related to contracts, rights and rights, so when they are violated, they identify it. And demand to maintain a protocol of action within the sector to combat the sexual settlement that some of them suffer in their workplace. And, to put it all together, they claim the social value of the tasks of education and care for people, a work historically attributed to women, linked to social reproduction, of low qualification and suffering a situation of social discrimination but now it is time to dignify it. At the same time, they ask the Government of the State to ratify the 189th Convention of the International Labour Organization, as other States have done, in order to expand the rights of workers and to regulate the sector better. And also urge once again the State Government to make access and maintenance requirements more flexible, since the current Foreign Law violates the rights of migrants, and in particular it is complicit in gender discrimination, and the workers of the foreign law and care are the people to whom this Foreign Law clearly affects, these violations. So, counselor, we know that you bet on regularizing the sector, fighting labor insecurity and dignified them. Therefore, we would like to know who the measures proposed by the Government of the Generality respect the tasks of workers in the home and the care of people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.178.0	To answer the question, the advisor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani, has the word. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.179.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members and Members, in the first place I want to do not only a grace, but a recognition to all people who work in the schools and schools in our country; a recognition, and especially a recognition to a large majority who are women and a large majority who are migrant women who work in this area. And this recognition of the desire to see especially in all the entities that have participated in the work group that has been generated in the department and that have influenced us, have remained persistent until we get to pull forward and that has approved, makes two governments, the government agreement around the work of cures and the work to the lars, in which we mark the full road respecting this one. A thanks to Anem per Feina, to the association Kalipi, to Centro Boliviano Catalano, to Grupo Libelulas, to the cooperative Més que Cures Poble-sec, to Dialegs de Dona, to Emis, to Fundació Apado, to Mujeres Migrantes Diversas, to Mujeres Pa'lante, to Poble-sec for Tothom, to AMIC-UGT, to CITE - Commissions, to Sindillar, to Sindihogar, to everyone who has worked and who has worked to pull this agreement forward. An agreement that marks us a full route. A full route that must allow us, in the first place, to get out of the invisibility [[remorse of the voice]] ...removed from the invisibility... [[pause]] – thank you; it was that you felt of the background, and it was very complicated to concentrate –, to get out of the invisibility a sector that is often too invisible and to place clearly who are the reptes. And I am absolutely aware that taking all the steps we take will cost us, and that we will continue to work, and that we will not take them at the pace we want. But it is essential that it is clear who the objectives are, and that we do it now, and that we also visualize the tasks that we have done. Because in the end we are talking about a sector that, unfortunately, is a sector that lives on the submerged economy and that connects with another aspect, that is: as many are migrant women, this submerged economy ends up bringing about a certain vulnerability, that is the kafkià of the situation of documentation, of administrative regularization, where there are very precarious conditions, where there is a reduced social value of a key area, where there is a lack of follow-up on the quality of the services provided to the home, where there are precise working relationships, where there is no recognition of their employment relationship in a legal way, where the workers do not consider the tasks in many cases as a job. From here, we have worked together, with this idea that from the department we always defend, that we certainly don't always get out at the time to do it right, but if we stay at the center we have to place the cures in the center too, to, in the end, take care of those people who take care of our family members. We bet very clearly and very directly on the regularization of the work of cures, a labor relationship that should not have this special character, that should have all the rights, as always claimed. It has been a long time since the ILO Convention 189 was completed in the Spanish State. And until we're satisfied we're still placing people in triple vulnerability, especially the women who work there, because they don't have a right to unemployment benefit, nor a maternity benefit, nor a decent retirement. And what will end up generating us is a society in which those people who have healed and who do the cures of our loved ones, when they need cures, are in a situation of absolute vulnerability. It can't be. Quotations, better wages, greater autonomy of workers; this also represents a greater consumption and a lower dependence on public services. And direct effects on the possibility of regularizing the situation of papers. For this reason, after a long work, we have been able to close this agreement of government which includes thirty-seven measures in the fields of working conditions, continuous training, the salvation of workers and workers in this sector; that it has a clear will, that it is working together, and working together..., and it has worked together, from a demanding platform, a shared work platform between administrations, trade unions and employers, and the same associations of workers. And that was a result. And this result we were able to visualize, and I want to place the most important aspects. It is a bet, as I said, for visualisation, and sometimes for dignity: protection of the health and job security of these people; protection against abusive working conditions – an element that is still more invisible and that should be reflected on them–; prevention and reporting of situations of risk of male violence that suffer much of these women; promoting changes at the standard level – I have already placed them–; implementation..., ratification of ILO Convention 189; equipping the conditions of these workers in the General Social Security Regulation..., elements of justice, elements that no one can discuss with two so-called fronts. We work for the regularization of the administrative situation of these workers and workers in an irregular situation, we facilitate training and professional qualification for those workers and workers who do not have it, we also recognize the formation, because if they already have it..., because there are many workers who have training and who do not have it. This agreement goes to the company's joint venture to make us all aware that the dignity of the conditions of this work is good for everyone. I do not want to enter, but I will place some key aspects of the compromise proposal: to facilitate access to truth information, both to people who contract as to the contracted persons, on the rights and rights they hold and on the institutions to which they may address in the event of violations of these rights; to improve the information and knowledge of the economic, labour and social dynamics of this labour sector; to promote mechanisms to encourage formal and dignified contracting; to improve access to the training offer; to promote the realization of days and discussions; to improve the health and detection of occupational diseases; to improve the protection of labour rights; to promote a professional promotion plan through the training and recognition of the experience of people who work in such a way as to remove obstacles to work. But sometimes we've been doing things and we've been doing things from the hand, too, with his impulse. Actions such as the creation of a distance to the department's website, with links to information of interest; the elaboration of frequent questions for the occupant and for the workers and the workers; contract models, because many times the patient did not know which contract model could be done. An element of which we are very proud: the awareness campaign through 012, radio falcon and television announcements, visualizing in the public media this reality; the inlet on the market of the telephonic and face-to-face service specialized at 012; an element that I will quote, but I will also say that we still need to do more..., that it is the catalan courses in dissipation for people who work internally, who only have the dissipation, and, therefore, we still need to make more offer; the elaboration and editing of the triptych If I am working without permission of residence and work, can I denounce it? on behalf of the Directorate-General for Labour Inspection; the development and editing of the Neteja Diptic secure on behalf of the Catalan Institute for Safety and Health at Work; training courses for representatives of the entities on risk prevention at the Catalan Institute for Safety and Health at Work. I think we've done some work, I think the agreement marks the line, but especially I think that everyone, and especially since this Parliament, and especially with their representatives, we need to visualize and we need to have much more..., much more security at the time of raising what cannot be a situation in our country in 2019. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Thank you very much. Reconnaissance to all the women who do this work, a reconnaissance to all the women who migrate, and I say it from the color, because, as I have lived at home with my mother, I know especially that it is important to visualize this reality and give it an answer. To the most vulnerable people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.180.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.181.0	...isa donating the most important answers. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.182.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about security in towns and cities]] [[300-00131/12]] The next point is the question to the Government about the security of the people and the cities, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Mr Matías Alonso explained the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.183.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillor, good afternoon. First of all I want to make an explicit recognition to the task of developing every day the members of the security forces and bodies in Catalonia, the police task of the members of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, the local police, the members of the Civil Guard and the National Police Cos, the rural agents and the port police. But also a recognizance to the work that to the benefit of the safety of all the bombers, the members of the emergency services and civil protection and also the operators of the emergency trick management center, 112. Counselor, security is a value and a right. It is an essential service that must lend public power. It is the guarantee and safeguard of the practice of the fundamental rights for the citizen. As essential service and irrevocable value is, security requires consent. It doesn't have to be a sterile confrontational issue in the party arena. With the essential questions and general interest there is no play, this I have heard more than once. How does that consent have to be? What is the main rule for maintaining this consensus? Respect scrupulous rules of play. Who are the rules of the game? The democratic, constitutional mark, and I'd say no space for nuance. Unfortunately, often in Catalonia, the last few years, this has not been so. We saw it this same week with the statement of the Brimo Command, which was to give security to the judicial commission in the September 20, 2017 escort to the Economics Council. He did it before the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court in relation to the defendant Jordi Sánchez. "Snake has become weak, that's not what we gave, say the president of the ANC. Defence witnesses, with double presumption of veracity, because he is an agent of the squadron moss and because, moreover, he is a witness in a trial and, therefore, he is obliged to tell the truth. You will agree with me, Counselor, that this makes it felt that some people close to the Government of the Generality had the conviction that the Squads were a political police force. Yes, counselor, the government that presided over the guru of Waterloo, this man so clever that he left most of the members of his government in front of his departments but fled to Belgium; this head of glue that he usually answered his visit, that of you and that of the government that forms part of the palauet of what he enjoys, much more comfortable, of course, than the current accommodation of the companies to which he has brought. Actually, it still does. The current government – and this is its responsibility – is employing agents who fail to complete the disciplinary regime of the body and persecuting agents who make the flag of their existing democratic order defense commitment. They allow, repeatedly, unacceptable situations that can be assimilated to mobbing by some commands. They allow insult and threats through social networks by some agents. They allow the dissemination of party messages via the Internet by collections of agents of Mosso d'Esquadra assigned to the separatist movement who want to impose their will to the democratic order. And, at the same time, they are pursuing agents in an arbitrary manner and I would say that they are muddy, such as the Brimo agent who explained an objective reality on the 21st of last December: "The republic does not exist. A few days ago, its Director General of the Police, at the head of the Division of Internal Afers – the instrumentalized DAI – opened disciplinary expedition against the president of a professional association legitimately constituted in the case of the Cos dels Mossos d'Esquadra for having made statements in a communication medium wearing regulatory uniforms. Counselor, you are making use of your governmental capacity in an intimidating and selective manner; in an arbitrary and counter-arbitrary manner, because you yourself in your Department of Interior have not ordered the initiation of a disciplinary expedition, for example, in the Generality's Bombers Cos, no longer to make statements wearing uniform and regulatory equipment, nor to have manifested yourself with the uniformity and the regulatory team before this Parliament or making false services of order and protection in demonstrations and "carries on the street, always with the same support to the separatist día that they want to impose on us all Catalans. Counselor, that's enough, it's over. The very announcement that we will file a complaint before the prosecution against this intimidating and overpowering attitude of abuse of position and authority, which has occurred repeatedly in the case of its department. And you know very well that these complaints, which we have filed against the arbitrariness of the government officials, of you yourself, in relation to the security service that is lending you to the rebel fugitive installed in Waterloo, have effect, and end up opening digs. There's no way, counselor, I've stopped abusing his government faculty. I have said it several times and I repeat again: you, in the development of your governmental faculty, must be absolutely neutral. You and the rest of the political leaders of your department must maintain the political and institutional neutrality in the chain of command of the Squad Coast, in conformity with the rules of the game, with the Constitution, with the Statute of autonomy and with all the laws applicable in each case. Squad moss cannot work on whims and arbitrariness. I ask you again, counselor: I stop playing politics with the police, it hardly affects the morale of the body, hierarchy, in which its components, when it comes down, play even their whole lives and have to have full confidence in their direct commands and in the political leaders of those who depend. You know that, but I have to say it again: at this hour, this trust is badly subdued. And their permissive attitude with some, and intimidation are those who want to maintain the loyalty of the body to the defense of democratic order is the main factor of distrust. Citizens' security and the fight against crime are held up in Catalonia only for the professionalism and compromise of the vast majority of the members of the Squadron Mosses Cos, despite the difficulties arising from their ill-governance. Counselor, the safety indicators are not positive, the name of the crimes in Catalonia is following a marked trend of growth and is especially worrying about what it does to heavy crimes. Heavy crimes have increased in Spain between 2017 and 2018, but also in Catalonia, and among other autonomous communities in percentage, such as the Community of Madrid, and also significantly in proportion to the number of inhabitants of these autonomous communities. The same goes for the city: growth is significant if we compare the cities of Madrid and Barcelona, to the detriment of Barcelona, badly. Therefore, there is a cause for concern. The number of crimes is growing, crime is growing, the ability to respond has not increased in the necessary proportion, but the ability to respond has to grow much more. I say, counselor, that there is concern on the street – you know it well – between different collections. I have to enunciate especially the women; the women who see how sexual assaults and crimes against sexual freedom are increasing. And a few days ago, not so long ago, an uncontrolled, extremely violent individual assaulted a woman in the beautiful mig of Barcelona. A terrible attack that caused him heavy wounds and even mutilation, a terrible rape and a feroted attack that should have been avoided. An episode of police decoordination, according to which they have reported from a union of the Urban Guard of Barcelona. I won't get into the issue, maybe there was only a procedural error, but in any case, it seems like a more episode of police decoordination and lack of inter-police information. And that, counselor, is his responsibility and that of the Director General of the Police, his Director General. Therefore, they ask him to continue working to improve the flow of information and this inter-police coordination... that ultimately generates problems, and very difficult, at the conjunction of the citizens. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.184.0	To answer the word, the Inner Counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.185.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies..., deputy, asked the president that I might have been wrong, because it seemed to me that the question, the question was about security to our people and cities, and, gosh, it didn't seem to me to feel – I don't know if those who are here in this chamber heard the same speech that I heard, but it goes – neither a proposal, nor a question, king of king; that is yes, speaking and misspeaking of others, yes. So, I hope, in the next five minutes, we would have what proposals or questions to deal with, wouldn't we? I want to ask him for a favor – I want to ask him for a favor. Miri, treat people with respect, please. You'll never feel me wrong about a company of yours or a company of yours. The President of the Generality, the very honorable Carles Puigdemont, is president and has a title, and deserves respect. You can't treat him like Waterloo's guru and stay so wide. I can't do this, I can't do this. [[applause]] Why, if not, don't let me start misusing and misspeaking people in your parliamentary group, and other people, huh? And then you'll have to shut up, because you'll have started. I won't do that. And ask her if you please – ask her if you please. And I asked him for a favor: don't treat people like this, don't miss a president of the Generality of Catalonia; please, don't do it, and less, in the Parliament of Catalonia. He told me a lot of things. You told me about Brimo's head, didn't you? , what we heard this week in the Supreme Court... Yes, yes; but you just heard a part or just wanted to hear a part, because to the next question: "And what happened after that? , this police officer said: "Nothing happened– nothing happened. Therefore, the comment that you can make or that I can make before a police officer can be one determined, the reality can be another. The only one who fakes the truth, doesn't explain it all. It's like they just explain the first part of a game, and the second part doesn't explain it, right? They have to explain everything, the ninety minutes of a football game. He told me that she is abusive or is chasing a police officer to say: "The republic does not exist. It's fake, it's bluntly fake; a dispatcher has been opened to a police officer to insult a city. He treated him like an idiot, he called him an idiot. And that's worth it..., and it's more etched, it's public and it's notoriety, and it's worth a dispatcher, just like any other cop in your stupid business. The same. You, the person who got this insult or any city in this country, because you deserve the respect of the police. And the code of police officers is that they have to treat people with respect. And if an agent, for a heat, for a bad time, who can pass us all, acting like an idiot a city, he deserves an expedient. But it's also a doctor's job, it's also a master's job, it's also a manager's job, it's also a secretary's job, or an agent's job, or an engineer's job for the public administration, because the citizens have to treat themselves with respect. And that's why an expedient opened it. So don't lie here either. Says you have to follow the law and order. Totally agree – Totally agree. Is that what you're doing to the committee you're chairing? Because it seems to me that sometimes it hasn't – it seems to me that sometimes it hasn't. So, when we all have to complete the law, but I jump when I want democracy precisely, it's not, it's another camp, but the democracy isn't, because the fact that everyone completed the law less, I'm not a democratic space. Anyway, it's another rule. Because I think the syrup one doesn't just have to hand it over but it has to be taken first. He talked about politicizing the police. And I say to him, "Not by much lying a lie is transformed into truth – not by much lying a lie is transformed into truth. Besides, you do one thing that is, let's say, "let's go," because you say, "The police do this, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that..., is politicized," is politicized, is politicized. Because you don't fan, don't fan, don't fan, don't fan, don't fan... And I ask you: "What are you doing? What did you do? Why during all these years that you have parliamentary groups here and in the Spanish State, what have you done to increase the number of squadron moves? What did he do? - What did he do? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, he'll have five minutes, not to be answered now. I have very politely pointed out everything you have said. You can do the same thing quietly. And if you don't want to, then you don't. What have you done because we have more moves on the street? What did he do because we have more local police? What did he do? - What did he do? Because I can tell you that, with six months I'm taking to the government, what we've done has been a 750-person promotion, that it's more than six years that it doesn't lie, that it's been a bet from the whole government, because from all departments we've taken advantage of the repositioning fee, and that means we've taken retirement places from all departments, because our priority was security. And we've created 750 squad seats and 250 bombers. And, look, I've already taught them, but I'm going back to teaching them, because, like sometimes you don't want to see only their truth from their perspective, the reality is this: all that red bars are promotions. [[The counselor shows some graphs to the chamber.]] As of 2013 it is not 'nfa cap until 2018. These years, there's been no promotion of squadron moves. This is the number they should have, 18,267; we have 16,573. We're pretty close to the number that marks the safety board. What have we done? Half a year, huh? – with a half-year –; it didn't even reach a half-year. A first promotion of 750 people, and making an effort of the whole government. Okay? I can tell you this, that we have done this, that we are trying to get old to fix and recover all the situation that we have had with the unions, that we have tried to turn around to the situation that we have, for example, and yesterday we talked to the Member of Parliament Castle, they are also setting up an initiative – that you could also say to him – respect, suddenly and again, to stay without local police, to Spain, but also to Catalonia, and especially to bleed in Catalonia when we lack agents from Mossos. Miri, in red are the numbers of moves we have. From there I may not appreciate it, but you will see how there is a downward trend. From local police is very stable: in the last four years, from 13 to 17, we move from 10,600 local police to 10,850 local police, more or less, in four years, in five; squadron movements, from 17,000 to 16,600. Therefore, we have lowered four hundred movements of squadrons, for the lower end, and of local police we have increased some two hundred; the assemblies have made local police. But suddenly they'll come down, because now, from one day to the next, it's decided – it's decided – that..., that I don't discuss it, huh? , the decision; I know that I defend an early retirement from security and emergencies, I know from that defense, but not from one day to the next; in a planned, thought-out, determined way and, above all, with the ability to give the turn to the situation. Therefore, we, this government, with what we carry, with the little time we carry, are grasping the situation; an adverse, complex situation. You are chairman of a committee, concretely from the Commission of the Interior, and you heard me explain it, saying that the situation was difficult, but that we wanted to face it, that we wanted to turn it around, that we wanted to face it and that we were sure that we would get out of it. And that's what I heard. And we're giving it around. And I refer to the fact and not to the words. Therefore, it is true that we have fewer agents than we have to correspond to – fewer agents than we have to. These agents are making hours and hours and hours because this country is safer. It's true that we're fighting criminal data, it's true, but we're also pushing the arrest data, and above all we're pushing the arrest data that I say in terms of quality. We're fighting 85_per_cent arrests in the case of housewives, which is a fact that worries us a lot and worries us a lot. And, plus, it's coming true, from this 85_per_cent, it's coming to a 104_per_cent pre-trial detention. Therefore, there is a load of evidence, of people, of criminal groups, who are dedicated to making the thief forcefully inside the home. Therefore, these few agents are giving him the turn to the situation. So don't tell me we're politicizing the police. In any case, we applaud these agents who, even less, are turning them into a very adverse situation. And in any case, let's conjure up all the pleas to solve it. And I look forward to seeing what proposals you make or where the motion that you will present will go, so that, if not, you can work together and make a joint motion. But, based on toilets and saying things that aren't true, I think we can't build anything anymore. Thank you, President; thank you, Members. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.186.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, it's the deputy's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.187.0	Look, counselor, I've also heard myself say many times, security, citizen security, the security of our people and our cities, is an exclusive competence of the Government of Spain, which, in the case of communities like Catalan, which has autonomous police, therefore, is shared. Therefore, refer to the fact that we do not get there, that we have an explanation for the numerical possibilities available to us, and that we have not shouted at the door or knocked at the door that was to be called, which is the door of the Government of Spain. Therefore, the Mossos are not the only police, nor is it the only police deployed here, but the one that does... is that the citizens of Catalonia have the same right as all the citizens of Spain to be perfectly safe at home and on their streets. We have said this many times and have repeatedly asked in this Parliament: it is necessary to improve coordination between the police that develop their police task in Catalonia, all police and security forces; it is also necessary to avoid uncoordination between the different services of the Generality and with the different municipal services. And that goes for something more than safety joints. I'm not going into Mayor Colau's game. If Barcelona is as it is, if citizen security has become a difficult and very present problem in the city walls and streets, even in the most central areas, it is also and above all because of the poor management of the security policy of the assembly, the poor management of the security of the municipal government presided over by Ada Colau, beginning with the understatement that makes of the Urban Guard, but things cannot go on like this. We cannot continuously watch episodes of insecurity like the viscuts mass often on the metro of Barcelona. It is necessary to activate and execute the LGTBI protocol that avoids episodes of hate for sexual discrimination that are repeating themselves with a growing frequency. So that the social services of the Generality, in collaboration with the municipal social services, do not leave out of control, unassisted and unprotected the minor strangers not accompanied, the MENA, counselor. That this vulnerable community should have effective protection. It's not a strictly police issue. But you are part of the Autonomous Government of the Government of Catalonia, and you need to coordinate social services to prevent some of the issues affecting this vulnerable community from becoming a police issue. The occupation, counselor. This continues to feel the difficult problem of living together with the people and above all with the cities. These days, in Old Town, we have seen again an episode that is very indicative of what is going on with the occupation. The eyes and owners of a reformed habitat denounce the flagrant occupation of the habitat. And there's the Mosses and they explain to them that they don't have to worry, that it's a glaring occupation, in the first forty-four hours, and that they'll make them out without a problem. It's not just not like that, it's all in the hands of a judge now. The problem of cohabitation, with dogs perilous for the middle, is still there, and the veins don't know well until when. Do all the questions related to the occupation have to solve the judgment? Can't the Mosses act before a flagrant occupation? I have said this again, Counselor: security is the guarantee of the free exercise of the rights of speech, such as the right of assembly, the right of demonstration, electoral campaign acts or conferences organized for student associations in university institutions. We have said this in his parliamentary office and we will repeat it again: university campuses, university enclosures, cannot be spaces of impunity in which intolerants, who practice violent extremism totally assimilated to the darkest fascism, prevent the free exercise of phonenal rights. The High Court of Justice of Catalonia, even though its president, Mr. Torra, was joking at this plenary session, has been very clear. The rights of students at the Autonomous University of Barcelona have been violated. It's the rector's responsibility to vet her students' phone rights; she didn't do it. But it is also his responsibility, counsel, to fight for the fundamental rights of the citizens of Catalonia; it is also his responsibility not to allow any space of impunity for violence, coercion and militant hatred that practices an intolerant fascism that wants to impose his will on the society's joint in the democratic order. Proudly unpunished. Speaking of rape, what happened to Liverpool hooligans last week? How come there wasn't a deployment of Mossos anti-evalots to the center of the city of Barcelona? How did the anti-foulers at their orders arrive when the Barcelona Urban Guard had controlled the violent action of the angled hooligans? There have been many outstanding questions. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , just mention it 'in a pair: the need that many citizens feel to self-organize to be secure...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.188.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.189.0	...and the lack of effectiveness until now of the fight against organized crime, which gives place to the phenomenon of the top manta. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.190.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make the answer, it's the counselor's turn now, again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.191.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP, I think he's only been seen in the first sentence; I have interpreted: "I want more Civil Guard and National Police and less Squad Movements. You made it clear, didn't you? He said that if they don't get caught, we trick the Civil Guard and the National Police, don't we? So, it's part of a consortium where the state won't let us hire more people, you don't do anything to help hire more people when you can, okay? , more police, and, therefore, how is it a thing that we learn to learn and make it little little, so, "later or later, they will end up calling us to the Civil Guard and the National Police, why do we bother, the Mossos d'Esquadra, right? What I read, what I interpreted from what you said, is this. Therefore, you have a problem – you have a problem. If you bother them with the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, a highly professional cos, a cos created, constituted..., and now that we're celebrating the three hundred years, the oldest police cos of Europe, if you bother them, they have a problem – they have a problem. And maybe they have to do politics, but they don't come to do it here, they have to do it in another place. Because if they disturb institutions of such quality, which is the second most valued institution for Catalans, if they disturb, listen to, have a problem – they have a problem – you do not read what society wants: society is on one side, it has a respect, internationally the Squad Coast has a brutal respect, and you the only one who wants to make it worse because other bones and security forces come from the Spanish State because the Squad Coast is in a residual space. So they're wrong; they're wrong because the government of the generality will fight, we'll fight because this thing continues to feel what it is, giving it all the tools we can and equiping it with the staff we can. As well as the difficulties, as well as the complications that you or the Government of the Spanish State may pose to us, we will be there, giving our face and understanding a situation of high complexity, and which is moving forward and is solving, I repeat once more, thanks to the professionalism of all and each of the movements of squadrons, men and women who each day are dressed in uniform to age for the protection of the heritage, of the people and of the democracy of this country. The Mayor of Barcelona quoted me. I think the debate is over. I mean, when she saw the letter I answered her – I don't know if she had the opportunity to read it –..., and when she saw everything that... she was talking about a lack of coordination and lack of political will, and, after all, when she saw everything that was being done together, I guess she had to call her security people, about the security environment of the assembly, and they said, "Yes, mayor, it's true, what the counselor says is true; we work more coordinatedly than ever. Maybe what you said today is a skate, huh? I guess so. And that's why the debate is over. Maybe it was because one of these had gone wrong and had to go out with another girl, huh? In any case, we, security, not in political terms – not in political terms, not in political terms –; security policies, but not in political terms, nor politics, nor partyism, nor much less, neither with you nor with Mayor Colau. He spoke of crimes of sexual assault – another example –: "What have you done? You want me to tell you what we've done to this government? We have stretched out as much as we could the Penal Code... that they do not depend on us; you cannot vote the Penal Code, the Spanish State vote. We stretched it out as much as we could to launch a protocol for sexual rape in the ocean, a tool that the government could do, with the tools that we have, that we have developed it and now we're just introducing it. I pulled her in as a counselor at the end of June. I went in to advise on June 2nd, and at the end of June we carried it forward; in July we started working with entities and with private security companies and entities defending abusive or sexually abused women; the month of December we closed the work process; at the generation we introduced it; in April it was approved, and now, just yesterday, I was in the Apollo Hall presenting it to the entities of the oce, and last week I was at the Institute of Public Security presenting it to the Mossos d'Esquadra and the local police and the port police. Therefore, listen, let's go fend – let's go fend. Now, the Criminal Code, which could change, and it could prosecute and it could be more harshly pointed out to all these sexual abusers or violent sexual abusers who commit sexual violence, so it doesn't happen. So, look, it's a plot that I'm doing to you, too; listen, so you, that you have a lot of strength in the Congress, touch it. Fix's, if they are captors of twisting the Penal Code to invent, to make legal invention to pursue people of poor democrats and pacifists that the only one they did..., they put the ballot boxes and carry more than a year in preventive prison, if they are captors of twisting the Penal Code to pursue democrats, so look if it would be easy to chase the violent, the violent sexual and those who apply force against the women; look if it would be easy to do it. I'm done. He talked about Liverpool. The Barça-Liverpool will match May 1st [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , Workers' Day and Day of Demonstrations, as you know. And he decided to do a coordinated operation – I'm finished, president –, Urban Guard and Squad Mossos to face two realities of high difficulty at a time of lack of agents. Therefore, he worked in full: Urban Guard and Squadron Mosses. Thank you, President; thank you, all of you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.192.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about mobility in the territory]] [[300-00130/12]] The next item is the question to the Government on territorial mobility presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Mr Francisco Javier Domínguez spoke to the question. [[Pause.]] When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.193.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We have been waiting for more than twenty years for the Vandellòs variant, yes, that unfolding so necessary to avoid a single, inexplicable stretch of road between Valencia and Barcelona. The variant of Vandellòs is so late that we often forget that this project is essential for the proper functioning of the Mediterranean Corridor and that it will bring benefits to Tarragona; among other things, it will decrease the travel time with Valencia; it will increase the connection of Terres de l'Ebre with the Camp de Tarragona and with the city of Barcelona; it will increase the number of trains between the station of the Camp and Barcelona, and also opens the possibility of connecting directly the Camp de Tarragona with the future station of the AVE of the airport of Prat. But with this project is evident the lack of coordination between the Government of Spain, municipalities and this government that you represent. The entry into service of the Vandellòs variant is imminent. Well, it was imminent in 2017, it was imminent in 2018, now it is imminent this year and perhaps it is imminent also in 2020. But, well, it will have obvious effects. On the one hand, the declaration of environmental impact obliges the dismantling of a stretch of road between Hospitalet and Salou; that is a fact. On the other hand, it is predictable that of the trains that go from Valencia to Barcelona many or most will stop passing through the station of Tarragona city and will pass through the station of the Camp of Tarragona ; that is that the station of the AVE of Tarragona will have much more relevance than currently. But how will this affect users? Here are the questions: will the frequency of trains between Tarragona city and Barcelona decrease? Will the number of trains between Salou, Tarragona, Altafulla, Torredembarra and Sant Vicent de Calders decrease? Will these municipalities lose rail mobility or will they aim to take advantage of the decongestion that will produce, that fewer trains will come from Valencia, to improve these frequencies? And if there was a little bit of complexity, we have the third rail, which is also now being implemented and we will have to look at how it will affect users, passengers, between Tarragona and Barcelona. In addition, we have here the subject of the tram train, which we have not yet talked about and which we do not know much about. This Government has in its hands to answer these questions and seek solutions, it is its responsibility. Your Government must have prepared an alternative transport plan for when the line coming from Cambrils to Tarragona is interrupted; it must ensure quality mobility between Cambrils, Salou and Tarragona the day after the train from the coast disappears. This non-existent transport plan would also have to have the third rail, and how it will affect this mobility. Your government, Mr Calvet, should be very clear about what public transport has to be like at Camp Tarragona; it should already have very well defined the famous tram train. But this does not seem to be a priority for this government. His Government should have requested the transfer of infrastructure that would no longer be in use; it should have drafted the draft of the tram system; it could have started the bidding of the works; it could have bought the trains, the vehicles, the tram itself. None of this has been done. And I ask you, Councillor Calvet, about the tram train: when can the works of the tram train be tendered? In what state of abandonment will the lands be left from the dismantling of the tracks until the construction of the tramway begins? How long will they be? And, by the way, have the land been requested, or not? When will this transfer be requested? Will the transfer of the undismantled line or land be requested after release? Another question: How long does it take to manufacture a tram, the vehicle? When can we see a circular tram through Tarragona? And while we wait for the tram, without an alternative transport plan, will it be enough to adjust timetables and train frequencies? Because if it is so necessary a tram train to Camp Tarragona how is it that there is not an ambitious transport plan to cover the needs, as we are claiming, to justify the tram train. But let's leave the tram train for a moment. The case is that the station of the Camp of Tarragona of the AVE will gain importance, as I said before, and that will aggravate a problem that in Tarragona we know very well: that the station of the Camp is there, to the camp. And how do you get to that station, that AVE station? Well, there are several ways. A first way is to take a taxi, but it turns out that Tarragona is from the cities with the most expensive taxi. Another way is to take the private vehicle or bring a family member or friend, or, if not, leave your salary in the parking lot of the station, which is also not cheap. Another option is to leave your vehicle lying on the roadside with the risk that it may bring to the traveller and to the traffic. Then there is the resort of going by bus, which considerably increases travel time, because the bus is not coordinated with the timetables of the trains, it is unreliable; therefore, you have to anticipate much for bus transport. Mr. Calvet, I assure you, it is easier to go to Madrid than to the AVE station from Tarragona. And what should your government do now with the subject of the AVE station? , because the AVE station is where it is, can no longer be modified. It must improve the connection between the stations of Tarragona city and that of the Camp of Tarragona, and it is essential that it is an agile, sufficient and reliable connection. You must change the situation of the taxi with a unification of the taxi service in all the municipalities of Camp de Tarragona ; it cannot be that the taxi that takes you to the AVE cannot pick up passengers back and has to return empty necessarily. It must also start negotiations to enable free parking areas or at least at an affordable price, with sufficient capacity in the vicinity of the station. This government must create an ATM in Tarragona, the metropolitan transport area, to optimize public transportation resources. His Government must start negotiations with the Government of Spain and plan new Avant-type services to connect the AVE of Tarragona with the future AVE of Prat. And finally, another question, another suggestion. You must guarantee a necessary frequency of trains for users between the stations of Salou, Tarragona city, Altafulla, Torredembarra, Sant Vicenç and Barcelona. All this is the responsibility of your Government, Mr Calvet, and it is therefore your responsibility. And since this government does not want or does not know how to manage a topic such as transport in Tarragona, a topic that directly affects the citizens, the economy, the territorial connection of our municipalities; as its government, by prioritizing the independence process, has literally parked the real interests and problems of Catalans allowing bad relations with the different governments of Spain to affect the action of government. For all this, now, it is up to the Catalans to pay the consequences – the consequences of irresponsibility or lack of leadership, I don't know –, pilgrimizing to the AVE, leaving us the rooms in the parking lot, suffering a lack of forecast when the variant works or not knowing if there will ever be tram train or not. And for my part, I leave my first intervention for the second. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.194.0	Thank you, Congressman. To the answer has the word the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr.Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.195.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members and Members..., Mr. Deputy, the truth is that I don't know very well where to take his intervention; I suppose his intervention has more to do with the fact that he is a candidate for the city of Tarragona and that he has a debate on mobility than with anything else, but in any case with regard to it. You have made an intervention in which you put forward some doubts about mobility at Camp Tarragona..., well, I understand that it is more out of ignorance than anything else, that you ask me in high view here in Parliament, to the Counsellor of Territory and Sustainability. In any case, I will try to answer all the questions I have already asked many questions that correspond more quickly to the Government of the State, and I know perfectly well that you have asked questions around Adif, Renfe, the Ministry of Development, with which we try to coordinate, but that I can answer as we have this will of coordination and, indeed, give answer to the citizen, but the last answer is not in any case to my hands, right? Let him begin by saying that one of the things he said..., he says: "You should create an ATM at Camp Tarragona; it is that the ATM at Camp Tarragona already exists. If you put on Google « ATM Tarragona, you can enter a plane that is called ATM Camp of Tarragona and in what you will see, therefore, that there is actually, in fact, a whole series of coordinated services. And I have to say that the ATM has its own physics and has some people, so that they carry it, that they manage it, and that what it does is integrate the urban bus, long-distance bus and railway services of some Tarragona rollers that created the Government of the Generality according to the few skills that we have, with that fake that made us the Government of the State two years ago, but that although we have stretched it as much as we could and we have been able to create two lines of cars in Tarragona. This institution, this consortium, this ATM in Camp de Tarragona transports approximately– I say this because it has this information and, in any case, can use it at its debate tomorrow as the candidate or as number 6 of the list of Ciutadans in Tarragona – about 21_million passengers a year– these are 2018 figures–, of which the majority are of the city's urban transports, the competence of the city. The rest of the transport, therefore, is part of the long-distance lines, of which they are fully competent of the Government of the Generality in its coordination. We also have express buses. And we also have in this coordination of the Tarragona Camp ATM, at least at the numerical level, the management of these two rolling lines, which, by the way, we would say, would require much more rolling services. But that's connected to the other side of his intervention, where he started, and that's an issue that's not new, it's an issue that we've been talking about for many years, isn't it? , which is all that precisely refers to the Vandellòs variant - the Children's Hospital – more quickly is the Children's Hospital, not Vandellòs, huh? Although the municipal term is the same, physically it is the Hospitallet de l'Infant –, until we call "the nude of Vila-seca, which is this great railway nude in which various lines converge. Clearly, this variety many and many years ago that is, first, pending the execution of its infrastructure, while there were urban reserves, including some esplanade, before the AP-7– imagines that years ago there had been plans to make this variety of railways– and that it was executed in its totality, huh? It's been a relatively short time. In fact, when you take the car for the AP-7 and go to the Lands of the Ebre, you see a series of viaducts and then you see a series of stations, infrastructures that are finished at 100_per_cent. They are, a little, some stations and some ghost infrastructure because, effectively, so trains still don't pass. And we wonder, like you, when the trains will pass. And we have asked the governments of the PP and we are asking the socialist governments now too, and I have asked the President in the first person..., I forgive, "the President: the Minister of Development, and I have asked him in the first person – "the first person I want to say that I have asked myself – the Secretary of State, and we have asked the mayors and the mayors of the municipalities directly affected... And so much so and so much we have asked and so much we have insisted that the two-thousand... – I don't want to be wrong –, 2018, which was then Secretary of Infrastructures and Mobility, under 155 still, huh? However, in any case, in exercising its functions, it achieved something quite innovative in all that is the planning of railway services to our country, which was agreed by various municipalities and Government of the Generality – therefore, Catalan band – in all that precisely represents this planning and provision of railway services to Camp Tarragona. And that says it's pretty unheard of because it costs, it costs to put everybody in agreement, huh? , because each municipality sometimes has conflicting interests. But we did a job, which you were demanding of me now, of coordination, of leadership; so we did it, Mr. MP, we did it. And we managed to sign an agreement that is said the Agreement for railway services at Camp Tarragona: Mayor of Tarragona, of the PSC; Mayor of Reus, of Junts per Catalunya; Mayor of Vila-seca and of Salou, of Junts per Catalunya; Mayor of Cambrils, of Esquerra Republicana. Different political forces, mayors and mayors, Government of the Generality, we signed a paper saying: "The railmen at Camp Tarragona must develop in this way. And it wasn't an invented way, it was a contrasted way, contrasted with the know-how, with the knowledge of the department, of the Tarragona Camp ATM – which exists and you told me that we were going to create it, but it already exists – with all this we did this plan of service to the Tarragona Camp. What's to go through in order to be able to apply? That comes into operation the variant of the Hospitallet de l'Infant al nus de Vila-seca. We don't have an answer about when it's going to work, but in case we sent this plan to the Ministry of Development, which kept quiet for a reply. But as we are weighed, insistent, and we know very well what type of railway service the Camp of Tarragona needs, so I have not stopped – and when I say « I have not stopped to say myself, but also the Secretary of Infrastructures, who is accompanying us, Mr. Isidre Gavín, and all his team – to get the Ministry of Development to get this information and we can, now, effectively coordinate what is the entry into operation of the variant, the dismantling – because it is, indeed, in the report or in the environmental impact study – from the way of the coast and the creation of a useful public transport service for the people. This is the terminology used by the environmental impact study of the same project of the variant, and that then we have to go through it in the meantime, so, time without knowing what to do with the lands – that they are from Adif, or at least they are Adif's reserve, and that we need to know what to do – and the same treatment that each of the joints does, and finally that we can actually implement a service that on the day of the tram train, because in what we are thinking is in a light rail service, huh? A railway service that can make these paths more urban, long-distance, can enter the city of Tarragona... we still define that. I insist, we sent it to the Ministry of Development between various institutions – I have named it six: five assemblies and the Government of the Generality – the silence for an answer... But in any case, it does relatively little – I speak of memory, but this must be two months ago, between one and two months and two months ago – we succeeded in getting that effectively, after much insistence, therefore the Ministry of Development..., organized between the Ministry of Development and the Government of the Generality – we did it in Madrid, at the same Ministry of Development –, a summit. That's what I asked for on a visit that I did to Salou in disembarkation, before the uncertainty of everything that was said to him: when he goes into operation, what happens to the lands, what happens to the dismantling... I said: "Look, that's enough. We need to make a summit of all parts. The Catalan part we have already coordinated – under this leadership that you were demanding from me that we have exercised – and we got the summit. The summit was made, I insist, like two months ago, in a meeting with the Secretary of State, Mr. Pedro Saura, at the Ministry of Development. And from this meeting we hope to get results, we hope that effectively the State will give us the answer around when the trains begin to pass – it seems to be that there are still evidence of safety, but I do not have a certain answer around when the trains start to pass; this should be asked to the President of Renfe or the Minister of Development – and in what way can we coordinate that the dismantling vagi perfectly coordinated – this is the word – with the installation, with the enabling of a light rail public transport system. A system that we want to plan and exploit, first, urbanistically from the Directorate General of Urbanism, with an urbanist planner, but then through Railways of the Generality, as the model company of management of railway services. And that's why the Generality Railway Company is already doing an informational study and an environmental impact study of this train that you claim with the leadership of the Government of the Generality and that we, this leadership, insist that we have and exercise it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.196.0	Thank you, Counselor. Mr Francisco Javier Domínguez spoke for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.197.0	Thank you, President. Of course I won't deny that things are being done, it would just be missing. Of course there's long distance transport, I won't deny it, this. But does it cover all needs? He said that he was asking for responsibilities on matters that are not our competence. Of course, the responsibilities of the ministry are of the ministry, and of the variant I will not ask you for explanations, because it is not your competence, and I will not defend the twenty-year delays in the variant either. But the responsibilities and powers of this government are his government's, and I spoke of them. If you have answered any of the things, which is progressing in the right direction, it will seem perfect to me, but what I am interested in is what to do with mobility after the variant, and with the taxi, which has not answered me either. Electoralism. Well, I advise you that if you report on my agenda and my activities, you report correctly, because I'm not number six. And yes, it is true, I have a debate on Friday, of two; I have a debate on Friday, but I also had it last week, and besides this issue is not the first time that it has come out here in committee: it has come out in committee several times, in several appearances of yours, and it has given explanations, we have asked you questions... So today it comes out, just as it will come out soon, if you do not advance in the work you have to do. [[Greetings.]] I just want to remind you of the important issues in Tarragona. First, work on the tram train. Think about what to do with the line, with the land; prepare the project and bid it; buy the vehicles, because it seems to me that it does not take two days to manufacture..., that is, it is better to have those in charge in time, because in the English Court they do not sell them. You've had twenty years to think about it, and you don't have to wait twenty more years. Second point: work on an alternative transport plan, because the track will be dismantled, but there will be a moment when the trains will stop running, and that transport plan must be perfectly crashed before the tram train comes, because the tram train is not made in two days. Do not wait for the variant to come into service, prepare the alternative plan, and do not have us waiting until the tram train comes. And third: work to improve access to the AVE station. If you go by car, you can park easily; if you go by bus, make it reliable and fast. From Tarragona and Reus as main populations, but also from Cambrils, from Salou, from Vila-seca or from Valls. Have stops at strategic points such as, for example, in Tarragona, that the bus can stop in front of the train station to perfectly connect the city's train station with the AVE train station. And, if you go by taxi, you improve the benefits, because you haven't talked about the unification of the taxi; that if you go by taxi, that you can also return by taxi, it's not normal for a taxi to have to return empty from the station. And, finally, I remind you that to these deficiencies of forecasting that you question you have to add to the delays and costs of other projects of your government, as is line 9 of the metro and the T-Mobilitat, which may in this case help something to the tariff issue. But why do I name these two projects? So that you don't excuse me that we don't have powers or that we don't have enough budget or funding. If there have been delays and cost overruns, then funding could come from there. Your Government, Mr Calvet, has powers. His Government did not exercise them effectively. This government, your government, Mr Calvet, has a responsibility to exercise them. And Citizens – to end – we have always defended public transport, Citizens defend the consensus of the territory and Citizens always – always – will work to solve the problems of all Catalans, the real ones. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.198.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the reply, the word has the advisor Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.199.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members and Members... Mr. Member, lastly, there has been a repetition of the first intervention, very focused on the fact that it is number 2– forgive, not number 6, but – in any case, very focused on this debate that is still about mobility and in which you can say things that you have later in this Parliament like, for example, that there is the Tarragona Camp ATM, huh? , which you said: "We must create it! So there are 21_million people transferred to the year and we have 6_million_i_mig euros in tickets. All this is data that can be used in your debate tomorrow. In any case, I would like to reiterate that we, in fact, are very much about the entry into operation of the variant – as it can't be otherwise – but let's not just get into operation and then start doing things. We have made the pact with these institutions that I have previously given, we are working in the information study and we are not just working in this information study, but we have developed not so much a plan – as you say – ‘alternate but a complementary plan – a complementary plan', because it is fixed that when the variation enters into operation, the service of rollers and regionals over the variation will continue to pass, it is more, will increase. We'll use the variant, with the Government of the Generality planning, because there's more R16..., Dignified Trains, remember? Ebre Lands, huh? In view of Renfe's poor functioning, we had to supplement it... by putting down the Government of the Generality's budget money, because the trains between Barcelona and València paressin to the Village and could make them serve, among comets, as regionals. All this has been done by the Government of the Generality with this leadership that you claim and we exercise. And we won't have more R16, but we'll also have, so, some of the more ordinary regional servants. And, therefore, in the band of the railway services itself, supplemented with what? Complemented with bus services, with bus services that already exist and that we want, therefore, to stop public transport to Camp Tarragona. We are talking about bus services between the cities and also between the cities and the station. And make a bet with the station. Indeed, the resort of today's "Camp de Tarragona" will be better served. The Camp de Tarragona estancia is located in a place that, effectively, is the line to Lleida and the central corridor, isn't it? And that's it, and it's there physically, and so it was the decision that he made at the time. But you know that in the planning of all that is the railway system of Camp Tarragona, not ours, already of the State – in any case we collect it and demand it – there is a second station: the central station. The central station that is – this is – on the same variant and, therefore, on what is strictly Mediterranean Corridor, closer to the airport and, therefore, has to make this connection with the airport, so that the airport of Reus is able, therefore, to connect more quickly and more efficiently with the airport of Barcelona and also with the airport of Girona; therefore, the Catalan airport system. We were alerted a few months ago when the state commission for the Mediterranean Corridor said in an interview – it seems to me that it was in a middle of Tarragona – that the resort of Camp Tarragona, sorry, the central station, that was not... that neither is nor is expected, came to say. And we already..., I quickly made statements and the secretary also said: "No, no; the central station is an indisputable part of this railway service at Camp Tarragona. He agrees that we have signed the five sets of different political colors and the Government of the Generality, and therefore we demand that we continue to be planned and we demand that there be a project, and we demand that it be set aside. And, this station, once it's set up, it'll help a lot to stop all the rail services at Camp Tarragona. Therefore, the Tarragona Camp ATM exists, the Tarragona Camp ATM works: urban buses, long-distance buses, railway services... Much attention to the deures of the Government of the State respects the variant, the entry into operation of the variant; complementary services of buses and requirements respect to which it is not yet planned, but which must form part of this public transport system to Tarragona Camp, as, for example, this central station. This is the leadership exercised by the Government of the Generality, a government that rules in the public transport camp from the Department of Lands and Sustainability and from the Tarragona Camp ATM. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-09-3002.200.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. And now, there should be no more on the order of the day, it should raise the session, but thanks to the courtesy – which I thank very much – of the President of the Parliament, Roger Torrent, who, as you know, also left this institution in the proper days, I would like, therefore, to make a bite – very briefly, it is not worrying – and I would like to say only three things. The first of all, thank you very much to all the Members with whom I have shared all these years in Parliament and with whom I have worked, be of my political formation be of any other, and I believe that we have built good things despite the difficult times we have experienced. Thanks also to my fellow Members of the Bureau of Parliament; thanks to all the workers of this institution, who are the ones who make it work every day. I'm sorry, too, if I've never been up to it – I've tried to be always, but I sure as hell haven't. And, above all and, finally, a special wish for luck and good luck for all of you, because your luck and good luck are the luck and good luck of all the citizens of Catalonia. And now I do... Now yes, thank you very much. The session's up. [[Perlongats applause.]]
