ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.1.0	MPs, MPs; good morning. Let's resume the session; ask them to vaginate their scons. [[Question to the Government on the protection of the civil and political rights of all Catalans]] [[300-00113/12]] The next item is the question to the Government on the protection of the civil and political rights of all Catalans, an question put by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia; it is explained by Mrs Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.2.0	Good morning; thank you, President. MPs, MPs; Councillor..., look, the present inquiry – already smiles because I imagine you imagine where it is going to come from – Mr Aragonès, it is about civil and political rights, and, as the text says, of all the citizens of Catalonia. Look, the consequences, in the end, of a process to which you have condemned the Catalans over the past eight years, have caused so much damage to our society, of all kinds, huh? , from the most relevant, and transcendent, to almost imperceptible details, but which are there and are not silent, are clearly visible, aren't they? Look, from the aldabonazo to the business and commercial fabric in Catalonia, with the loss of almost five_ thousand companies, and what that implies for the economy, for the well-being, for the evolution of a society, until..., thus passing through the deterioration of the image and the relationship of Catalans with the rest of Spanish. Believe me, that we are not seen with sympathy – but as a result of the process, not before – we have lost prestige. You have made the Catalans lose the prestige that so many years, efforts and merits had managed to give us, haven't you? And, moreover, you have also damaged our image within Europe. And far from that "the world looks at us, it turns out that we are now known in the heart of Europe as the first region to have a president reprobated by racist and xenophobic by the European Parliament a few days ago. Finally, in Europe, in that heart, in that heart that represents the will to live together and share common dreams, they have panicked to see that, in a region of Europe, within Europe, there can be a person like Mr Torra, with xenophobic attitudes and writings like those we all know. Moreover, there is also that social fracture, which you deny and deny, in civil society, between Catalans, but not only between neighbors, between families, professional schools – totally contaminated by political dynamics –, football clubs, former schoolmates, neighbors, balconies, but also in that so basic norm that has now been installed in our society – formerly non-existent, by the way. I can tell you that, with my brother-in-law, he had, in the end, tapes of demonstrations and conversations about his point of view..., of things in Catalonia, being deeply independent, and mine, that no, right? For that rule, which is very serious, and which should alarm us all, if you are in this group of WhatsApp, if you share this table..., we talk about everything except politics. Come on, what happened in other times, with religion and politics, right? It wasn't about that, and it was just about football. Well, we've come to that. And in this context, therefore, the Government of which you are a party, it turns out that Mr Torra makes a very profuse writing in August, explaining to us Catalans that there were ways of being good and bad Catalan, and that those who removed symbols and independenceist ties, in short, separatist propaganda from all of Catalonia, were, in the end, fascists. Some were even covered and went out at night; in short, they were practically..., the bad Catalans were those who wanted to decontaminate the public space of separatist symbols, and those he pointed out as such. On 1 October, moreover – that is, a little later – it turns out that Mr. Torra, therefore, meets with some lords of the CDRs, the cherubim of the CDRs, and they say to them: «................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... , and we find that, fifteen days after that « presseu – fifteen, eh? , just – you create an office, which is the Office, this one, of Drets Politics i Civils. And look what I'm going to say to you: being public and aware of the differences between Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana, between a president who acts as a trade delegate of Mr Puigdemont, asking for the « presseu, presseu, and, finally, a certain criticism within the bosom of Esquerra Republicana, of « so don't look at it, you can't impose independence with more of the half of the population than you want, because look, this office comes out and says one, well, at best you have even reflected on that you can't move forward so, on that from « presseu it would be good to pass to « reflexeu, eh? We take care of living together, that's right, to give us all a chance. But no, it turns out not. And it turns out not, because you choose Mr. Adam Majó at the head of this office. Therefore, this office, instead of contributing to a certain..., finally, to try to seek the lost normality and to a democratic coexistence in Catalonia, with greater guarantees, because it seems that it is not. Moreover, I will tell you, the moment when someone, in a remote assumption, thought that this office could serve that, as a restorer of coexistence, as a guarantor of social peace, then, lasted little; it lasted little, the joy, lasted almost the same as the seconds that the non-existent republic lasted – almost the same. You know perfectly well, because he is a complete man, that in Catalonia we have serious deficits of democracy, alarming – alarming –, and you have created an office; an office run by a « excuper veteran, which, moreover, was ex Militant of the Movement of Defense of the Earth, linked to Terra Lliure. You give him a salary of EUR 90_000, you help him with a press chief and a secretary, and you think that's normal, and that nothing has to happen here, and that we all have to say: "Wow, that's good, a political and civil rights office for the citizens of Catalonia. Look, you know perfectly well that, in Barcelona, a father who was going to a demonstration on 12 October, with his daughter with a T-shirt from the team, chased him down the street and attacked him. And you are going to say to that gentleman: "Listen, look, can you assist him in this office, that Mr Majó is going to assist you? Do you know that, in Balaguer, some gentlemen who asked for bilingual education for their daughter at a school... and were harassed, the girl and the parents? And you're going to refer them to Mr. Majó? In Ciudadela Park, a lady was punched for pulling out a yellow tie; an independent fanatic, who couldn't stand that image of pulling a party symbol out of a public space. And you are going to refer to a Commissioner, to that woman you are going to refer to a Commissioner of the most radical separatism, so that she is defended? Two women from the selection platform, in Barcelona, were attacked in Fabra and Puig, and you, are going to send them to a gentleman who is ex-member of the Movement of Defense of the Earth, linked to Terra Lliure? Constitutionalist parties, and this you know, I know you're going to tell me that other parties are also suffering aggression... Anyway, a third part... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes; no, and I can agree with you that, by disagreeing with someone, you cannot attack political parties, nor their representatives, nor much less, but the seats of constitutionalist parties are receiving attacks, one attack every four days. This is real data. They are claimed, for the most part, by Arran. Who are Arran's? The lads of the gentlemen of the CUP. I mean, Mr Majó's apprentices, when he was twenty-seven years in the CUP. And will you, the constitutionalist parties, also refer them to the office running a veteran's cup to defend them? To denounce the aggressions suffered every four days? Just a few days ago, there was a rally here, from a political party, which is legal, you might like it more or less, but it's legal. And at that rally, they were received with insults and stones, by separatists. Do you know that Mr. Majó took photographs with a small sign, summoning people to protest against a legal political party, no matter how much he dislikes it? Is that institutionally responsible? Is that the type of person to run this office? Look, the questions are very clear, Mr. Counsellor: What is the reason for the creation of this office? Is it the payment to appease the differences and tensions you have with the gentlemen of the CUP, who have withdrawn their support? Is it that you are fulfilling the dictates of Mr. Torra's obligations and account when he spoke of ‘ masked, violent, intolerant individuals,'in that article I have mentioned to you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.3.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.4.0	Or is it the order...? – a moment, I'm done – is it the task of...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.5.0	No; then you have a _second return; therefore, if you want to follow later, then continue later, but now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.6.0	Is it the charge of the structures that Puigdemont made to Mr. Torra before the start of the legislature? Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.7.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.8.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen; honourable Member, very good morning. Let's start with... well, you've made a series of considerations, context, political appreciation, what's the situation in the country, and, as I disagree, so let's start by trying to deny some of the statements you've made, that I think they're a long way from reality, or that in any case, they omit aspects that are fundamental in a democratic system, right? You refer to the political situation in Catalonia and to the petition on the one hand, so, very sensitive to the Catalan society, that Catalonia becomes an independent state, you say, as the process to which we have condemned all Catalans, right? In fact, it seems that there has been..., I assume that you believe that the demand for political independence for our country, therefore, is a creation that is made in a despatx, of hope, and that you do not respond to the will of a very important part of the citizenry, nor that this is expressed in the elections, and that, therefore, listen to me, this Parliament and the Government of Catalonia are exercising our functions because we have had the electoral support to be able to do so. And it's already, and so we don't make a conviction on anyone. It is the citizenry of Catalonia, which, in its diversity..., has obtained the necessary support for, in this Parliament, being able to form Government, therefore, is an independentist government. And, therefore, there is no condemnation here of anyone. If we were, from an absolute minority respect the political opinions of the country, those who impose this project, we could talk about that we have condemned... For example, if we were twelve judges of a constitutional court that impose a statute of autonomy that no one has voted for, and then no one does anything to reconcile it with the democratic will of the people, man, it would be a condemnation. If we were, then, the last party of the chamber, which decides, through the prosecution and through the state's advocacy, when they were in the government – which, happily, is no longer, this last party of the chamber here, but, at the moment, still, the main party of the chamber to the state –..., you decide – that it is believed with the power to decide it – who could or could not be president of the Generalitat de Catalunya from among the deputies who have all the rights to be able to do so, then we can speak of condemnation. But if what this Parliament reflects, as it does, are the votes of the citizenry, it cannot speak of condemnation; in any case, a political reality that you do not like. And I can respect it, that you don't like it, and you have all the legitimacy to change it democratically, but don't say that the independence process is a condemnation of Catalans. As the fallacy of the loss of jobs, when you know perfectly well that there has been a change in social domicile, but that the displacements of jobs are not what you say, and you know perfectly well. Therefore, it is simply a question of social domicile; in many cases neither tax domicile – in many cases, nor tax domicile. He mentioned – and this has done me a lot of thanks –..., he says: "Clear," he says – "now it turns out that Catalans..., you know, don't you? That we don't have any sympathy for the citizens of the rest of the state? I think your party should have a deep reflection here. You started a gathering of firms against the Statute. And they did it with some arguments that, I mean, I think in everyone's memory we all have very clear who was the argumentary that there was, right? : firm against Catalans. You have favored Catalanophobia. And, you, that so many times they denounce that independence can associate – it can associate –, or you can say that it represents the totality of Catalans, you, many times, to criticize independence, criticise the country's conjunction. And I think this is a profound mistake. He also did a... well, when he talks about the European image of Catalonia, so it's that we just look at the things we're interested in, right? I think it's a big contrast that you say about..., don't you? , a denunciation of those famous articles by the President of the Generality of a pile of years ago, this contrasts completely – the vision that you want to project from this – with the action of government. And I'm setting an example for which we're all responsible, and it's thanks to everyone, that it's the agreement presented the past day. And this, in a Europe in which, precisely, tensions over immigration cause political and social fracture, which in Catalonia there may be an agreement of these characteristics I believe that everyone – and it is thanks to all – must be able to pride us. I therefore believe that, when you talk about the image of Catalonia in Europe, this should also be taken into account; or take into account the image that the Spanish State is planning with these Euroorders that are presented, which are withdrawn at the convenience of how a judicial investigation is carried out, right? And I think one of the points that you have put on the table, that it is obvious that Catalonia has a strong political debate, very strong, yes, and polarized, certainly; go, this Parliament is not the best show. In fact, it's a political debate that we, in our files, are experiencing this polarization. Patim, when this polarization is transferred... for example, and the judiciary takes sides. And when we have these deep loops here that symbolize our political prisoners and exiles, right? But the diversity of opinions in a society is not a fracture. You have spoken of your independent brother-in-law; I wish you had an excellent relationship, but listen to me, we all have friends, family who feel different and can continue to speak perfectly. That's the mature societies. If the price you ask for is to abolish the diversity of ideas, I think we're going very badly. Therefore, the important thing is to ensure that the different ideas can be expressed freely. And precisely because of this, we have promoted the Office of Civil and Political Rights; not by a task of not knowing who, for a government agreement that reflects the votes in this chamber, and for a government program that was presented in this chamber by the President of the Government of Catalonia, and that this chamber, with the vote of its investiture, approved the government program, as the Statute of Catalonia says. Therefore, by virtue of this government agreement, it is created this office, in which, in the face of it, the Government appoints a person like Adam Majó, fully qualified to do this function, and who has addressed himself before any attack that has occurred on people of non-independence ideology..., he has addressed himself to make himself available. Then he decided not to use it. And it's legitimate, not to use it. But, in any case, listen to me, he has addressed it; Mr. Adam Majó has done so, and obviously he will continue to do so, because it is true that there are democratic deficits in our society. There are democratic deficits when certain ideologies are subject to permanent persecution. There is an arbitrary use of the powers of the State and civil and political rights will be violated. And it's true, there are democratic deficits that are also manifest when there are people who, by their ideology, can suffer attacks or attacks. For example, the mayor of Vilassar de Mar, appointed for these night commands; that is certain, they were hooded, but because they publish videos that were hooded. And they act on the night; they publish videos in which they see that they go on the night and in which they remove the symbol that they do not like, in which they take and assign the private domiciles of certain mayors. And I set the next example, last week: Damia del Clot, mayor of Vilasar de Mar, assigned, his private domicile, for these groups. And the President of the Generality accurately denounced the performance of these groups. And you say, "They say they're wearing hoods. It's the anaven. It's more like, they do it and they go to full light of the day, before the Palau of the Generalitat, and they take all the deep loops and banners of political parties, which they have decided to withdraw because they don't like them, and they do it at the gates of the Palau of the Generalitat, at full light of the day. And there's no persecution, because we know perfectly well what an act is by virtue of freedom of speech and what it doesn't, even though we don't like it. And I didn't like people, I found it deeply offensive; but if you can't act, you can't act. Like, for example, a demonstration against a political party rally. To me, the political party Vox, which did a political act last week or a few days ago in Barcelona, I don't like people, but I will defend – I will defend – that can manifest and that can do their actions. And, in the same way, I'll argue that anyone who doesn't agree can protest, obviously with a few limits. And, when there are violent acts, it has to be done, and it has been done by the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad I'm making him a proposal that I made here last week and that we're going to address to all the groups: we're making a compromise between all the parliamentary sentencing groups before any attack, against their parties, against people and against entities by virtue of their ideology. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] Let's see if we do that. I think it would be a good opportunity, and a good conclusion...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.9.0	Vice-President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.10.0	... of this inquiry. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.11.0	Thank you, Vice President. To make the reply, the Member has the new word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.12.0	Well, see, counselor, I'm actually... you tell me... you do a counter-relationship, don't you? Let's just say, of my inquiry, and tell me that separatist movement in the end is not a condemnation, and that the process is not a condemnation for Catalan citizens. And I tell you one thing: when you, in order to defend what you think, are serving a law of legal transition where you place all Catalans in a practically state-of-the-art situation – state of-of-the-art – you, while remaining your freedom and your rights as a citizen, on the margin – on the margin – of charging the separation of powers – law of legal transition – have a problem; when you make and break legal order by jumping all protocols and procedures, like from here, and violating our rights beyond the half of Catalonia's citizenship on 6, on the 7th of September, 2017, that is to say, on the side of the Constitutional Court. And it is because, even from the ranks of political separatism, it recognizes that this began..., not that independence does not exist, no, but that the process itself began before the problems of Democratic Convergence, which was up to the neck of corruption, and before incapacity and inefficiency in managing the real problems of Catalans, which passed, exactly as today, eight years later, for the very same time: sanitation, security, schools, in short, for the daily problems of the people. So you don't tell me that eight years of this, of loving problems, eight years of covering corruption, eight years of imposing your criteria and your sleep on more than half the Catalan population, eight years of breaking democracy, eight years of wear and tear is not a condemnation, because it is. I'm taking the offer to condemn the rapes that are being committed against all people, and I have the ideology that I have. In the last parliamentary term we succeeded in another of the attacks that were made to our own in Urgel for the Lords another round of Arran, and we succeeded in doing so, we signed all the parliamentary groups, and even the CUP –" rare" – this sentence. I'll take it, I'll take it. What I don't take and don't buy is the existence of this office and why it's created; I can't take it. He's smart, and it's even extravagant that you tell me, that Mr. Majo is the ideal person to carry this office. And that, besides, the thirty-four complaints that this gentleman made in these two months and a half, three months, are a valid instrument. Look, in the end, I told Mr Majó at the time when he appeared to the Commission of Institutional Affairs: when the director of this office has the profile that I told him, and that I told him personally; when the director of this office animates – animates – people to counter manifest against political parties of ideology that he does not like, or to identify those political representatives that are not of his own accord, or even to compare, in the end, the symbolism of a Spanish flag before the barracks of Civil Guardia with a large place, saying that the Spanish flag, "in the end, is as little neutral as a yellow link, as if it were comparable, an official symbol representing all Spaniards, including Catalans, with an unsymbolistic party. The office is just a counter-relationship office; you need to have the counter-relationship served to try to justify your government actions or inactions. I mean, Spain is not an advanced democracy. Lie; you can create this office and twenty-five more. Spanish is an advanced democracy, as all international indexes say; the new, exactly. In Spain, democracy and the rule of law are guaranteed, and the separation of powers is also guaranteed, and we have a judge with cameras, stenographers and full guarantees, until his party head has practically been able to hold a rally in a statement from a judge, which I say to him, that I am a lawyer, that is not normal; it is usually much tighter, the time of intervention of the declarants. Look, you're using a counter-relationship office, and we don't have to pay for all the Catalans, much so that you have, in fact, to pay for.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To make the answer, it is now the return of the Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.14.0	All right, thank you very much, President. The Office of Civil and Political Rights brings to term initiatives aimed at defending the rights of demonstration, of assembly, of association, of freedom of expression, of political participation and of holding fair trials, so rights that are directed, that are owned by all citizens, and this is one of the functions of the office. In fact, at the moment, the office is centered on two key actions: the attention and support, first of all, to Catalans residing abroad who want to participate in this own electoral cycle, and that it is obvious that their political rights of participation, not just Catalans, but the rest of the citizen of the State, with the application and execution that is made of the General Electoral Law..., therefore, this political participation cannot be completed; therefore, the Office of Civil and Political Rights works at these times in this area. They are both in difficulties and, therefore, how we can reverse the difficulties in exercising the right to universal suffrage experienced by Catalans and Catalans with past migrants, who do not have nationality, or who have problems, in this sense, in dealing with all their..., doing all the processing in the bureaucratic field that is required to exercise the right to vote, and, in the absence of information, in the area of the right to vote of the people who are migrated, and therefore these two actions, these two areas, at these times, represent where they are focused, at these times, eh? , in these weeks, for a question of calendars, the Office of Civil and Political Rights. You said that the debate on the independence of Catalonia is to cover the management of salvation, of security, of the schools; in any case, let us look at the interventions that you are making in the plenary of Parliament, that you are doing with your Spanish nationalist right-wing partners, and let us see what you are talking about, and let us see what you are asking the President of the Generality for at the control sessions, and what you are asking the members of the Government for, and that you are basically talking about independence. Yes, it is true that you have made a..., with your intervention on the Spanish flag, I think it represents very well this banal nationalism that Michael Billig, for example, so explains so well, right? Block symbols and officiality, and symbols, some, that the law says they are of all and results..., official symbols, it's always complicated, especially, in a society where there has been a diversity of national consciousness inscriptions, where feelings are diverse. It's always complicated, and it's true, and that's what Mr. Majó said, that there are citizens of Catalonia who think that the Spanish flag represents a certain ideology, a certain national project, and that's it, because, in this sense, citizens, that they think that, there is, in a few words, that we think that. Now, one other thing is that it is true that the current legislation which says that there are certain symbols which, by the nature of being official, even though they associate, for a very important part of the population, and, therefore, they can have effects in the electoral field, to a certain political option, some are official and the regulations employ them, of others, so they are not official, and therefore they force them to withdraw. When you talk about separation of powers, you forget about aspects and elements that we have had in the past year, here in Catalonia, that show that this separation of powers does not exist. And I can talk to her about my personal experience, and I've seen how, in the exercise of its functions as a judicial police, the Civil Guard is dedicated to filtering reports that it brings into a judicial process, that was under secret summary, about my political activity, and I found myself in the media. Yes, that's right, because, well, basically, look at the leaks in the media about our political activity. And that's separation of powers, when you're in front of the units of the Civil Guard that write these reports, while you're doing the reports with one hand, with the other you're doing Twitter to criticize those who represent an ideology that he doesn't like? Is this separation of powers? Has there been any investigation of this? Did Minister Zoido of the People's Party make any inquiries? No – no. Minister Zoido and his predecessor were dedicated to ensuring that there was a political police in the State, some key-gatherers in the State who, for one hand, were trying to make false news about independence, and, for the other, were dedicated to spying on political leaders such as, for example, Mr. Pablo Iglesias, of Podemos, who did not like them. Therefore, I think it is obvious that the separation of powers in the Spanish State is far from where it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.15.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[He asked the Government about the recovery of the great consensus to make Catalonia move forward.]] [[300-00107/12]] Next, let's go to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the recovery of the great consensus to make Catalonia advance, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. I, to expose the inquiry, has the parable of the deputy Jessica Albiach. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. The vice president is expected to answer that question. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] According to the Ple's guide, it is the Vice-President who answers the question. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So go ahead, Mrs. Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.16.0	Well, good morning to everyone and everyone. We present this question because we are living decisive moments, we are in a historical crucible in which we are not only playing our own games, but we are playing the country we want to be, and therefore we must be able to assume this responsibility and build scenes of the future. And, in this context, more than ever, to claim the importance of this Parliament, which represents popular sovereignty, and, moreover, that we believe that we must have a key role to play in marking the decisions that will be of fundamental importance to our country. I believe that the facts show that the time of "we can alone has run out; now, more than ever, we can let go of symbolism and gesticulation and cal – cal – dialog, that is the dialog we are talking about so much, but after that we see that it has not just materialized; a dialog that must be full of contents and that, moreover, must represent the great consensus we have with the country. Given the improvisation, paralysis and reactionary and conservative nationalism of some who, moreover, say that Spain is irreformable and that, therefore, I would already like to know why they are running for the general elections, before those who only want to go to the institutions to block, before a government that is sitting at the banquet of a waiting room of a new moment and also before those who want a state that continues to be antisocial, semi-democratic and straight, Catalonia has to propose a transformation agenda, because participating is the only way to be a motor of change, and changing is the only way to advance in disjurisaging, redistributing, fighting against inequality and winning and conquering sovereignty. Look, the works are not just shown in an election campaign, it is not just a reading of what took place in the last fifteen days; the works are shown when one is in the government, as the Barcelona Assembly did or as all the meetings in Catalonia have done, mainly the only institutions that have been active during all these months. That is why, because it is the responsibility of this Parliament, because the Government, you are who is in the Government, because we already know that we are asking for elections, but you are who is in the Government represents and works for the interests of 99 percent of the citizenry, this Parliament must have a key role to play and it must be done from the transparency and must gather the great consensus that we have. These last few months we have known that there were negotiations, that there was a supposed dialogue between the Government of Spain and the Government of Catalonia, but, there, Parliament and the citizen have little to say, right? In fact, we learned of the contents of the famous twenty-one points of Torra very late, we believe that too late. And, because this cannot happen again, because Parliament is a foundational institution of our self-government, but more represents the plurality of this Catalonia, which is different and mixed, we propose to push from Parliament an agenda of change, from compromise with our common reality. We are experiencing a triple crisis that is causing the foundations of this democracy to be shaken, and, in the disjunctive we find ourselves, there are only two options: to move forward or back, to rule with Catalonia or to rule against Catalonia. This triple crisis that is going on in the State is social, institutional and democratic. And explain it to me. There is a crisis of the social pact, after two years of the most important crisis of the last hundred years, which broke our social agreement, we remain stuck in austerity and in detail. Neither Europe, nor the State nor Catalonia have been able to respond to this reality; in fact, most people are still trapped between uncertainty and precariousness as in vital times. And the main fracture we have as a society is inequality, we see that while the banks have been rescued, while the great fortunes have not stopped growing, in change, the working and middle classes have carried on their scales the consequences of this scam. It is a fact that 40 percent of our young people live and live worse than their parents and mothers have done, and we are not only carrying their future, but we are carrying our future as the country. The institutional crisis. After decades of bipartisanism between the Socialist Party and the People's Party, with the support of Convergence and the Basque Nationalist Party, the formation of an oligarchic system and a political class every time longer of the common people, it is certain that doors and windows were opened to a new democratic impulse which was shaped by different ways, but still, today, we follow a monarchy ; a monarchy which, moreover, is blocked by corruption ; we are also patting the rotating doors, the last case, but there are many, followed by the Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría, which, in fact, is seen against the actions of the key players of the State, which lay down the ends, perpetuating the system, which is in fact, in fact, the party itself, the party itself, the party itself, the producer, the party itself, the party itself, the party itself, the party, the party itself, the party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party' party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party' party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's And, lastly, a democratic crisis; a democratic crisis that in Catalonia is living and pating itself with a special virulence, with a situation of brutal exceptionality. For one thing, we have the trial against the independence leaders; we saw the illegal application of 155, so, from our political space, there was an appeal before the Constitutional Court, which has not yet received an answer; we have seen the last decision of the Central Electoral Board, which violates freedom of expression, but we have also seen the persecution of demonstrators, pickets, tweets or rappers. And, before this triple crisis situation, what we need is a great deal of agreement to move forward. And we are aware that this is not going to be done in the political programme of the party; this is going to be done with a Catalan agenda, to be shared, to be consensual, to address the solutions of this triple crisis and to push for a new agreement. And get in to detail a little five points I'd have to look at this agenda, in our opinion. For one thing, we must start with the principle, and for us, the principle is the repeal of Article 135 of the Constitution, which prioritizes the payment of the interests of the debtor before the interests of a social majority. This would allow us to shield public services, and that would force governments to guarantee social rights as well, and put us in a position to be uncertain and precarious. Also to end the continuous insecurity of those who go from the twilight to the precarious occupation, from the precarious occupation to the twilight; to end with the wisdom of the EROs, to end with an unjust distribution of benefits between capital and work. It has to be finished and the two labor reforms, that of Zapatero, have to be repealed, but also that of the People's Party. And, in a positive light, we need to move towards a new status of the workers and the workers I put in the center, again, working conditions. Obviously, we need to talk about pensions, which must be shielded by law, not just pensions, but also that the bid must agree with the level of life. We demand, of course, a public bank and that the banks return each of the euros that have come out of our pockets to rescue them. And, above all, thinking of the future, I would like to impose a tax on the bank to be prepared for possible new economic turbulence. We also need to move forward in democratic regeneration. They must be banned by law from turning doors, they must seek agreements to reform our judicial system to guarantee their independence, and they must pursue corruption in all institutions, and when they all say, they are all, including the monarchy. The democratic regeneration was accompanied, it went from the hand of the republican values. We believe it is indecent that the judiciary did not allow a parliament to investigate the corruption of the monarchy, but, if I may, I think it is not only indecent, but it is a shame that certain parties that are said to be democratic are blocking the investigation of corruption in the Congress, against the monarchy. [[Greetings.]] We must also advance to a state that accepts its plurality and that the most powerful democratizing impulse from the cities, such as municipalism. They are the ones who have been giving their faces, day by day, in the most complicated situations. And in this sense, they are the ones who have also been most active in housing policies, even though it was not their competence, because we cannot fight against this real estate cylinder that we have now, which is that of the loguer, to reform the law in the Congress because it is possible to fix a maximum price, and not as has been so far the PSOE, which has been avoiding it. And, basic and phonental: we need to move on to a new dialogue scene that has to be based on two principles; on the one hand, the judicialization and freedom of prisoners and political pressures, and, on the other hand, the recognition of the natural politics of the conflict that we are currently patenting and seeking solutions that go through a reference and a bilaterality relationship. Catalonia deserves to advance in rights and sobrieties to decide which country it wants to be. Leave me two themes for later, but I would like to know, Vice-President, if you accept this challenge, on the one hand, to work on this shared Catalan agenda, which must be of consensus between the majority of Catalans and Catalans, and if, as well as the Government, you are committed to pulling forward, and shaping and channeling these great consensuses into the bilateral dialogue that has to be established with Spain. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.17.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. Next, to answer the question, the Deputy President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.18.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen; honourable Member, you have put a lot of fear on the table. I agree with a good part of the analysis that we are facing a triple crisis in the Spanish, social, institutional and democratic states. Here I make you a proposal; in any case, the motion following the inquiry will be sent to you if you do not have a group present any of the questions in this sense. But, that this Parliament clearly rejected the application of a new 155, I think it would be a point that would generate a broad consensus here, and that, at the moment we are, would give a clear position of the Parliament of Catalonia in this sense. Let me tell you, go ahead, that most of the fears you have raised about the table fit perfectly with the electoral campaign debates on April 28 that we have, and certainly not so much with those that we can do at these times in the Catalan Parliament. There are great consensus in this country. The President of the Generality, often, therefore, explains the three great consensuss, the three 80_per_cent: to support a reference as a solution to the political conflict we have, the 80_per_cent against repression, and the 80_per_cent that shares republican values and does not believe in monarchy as a form of government. Beyond these great consensuss, which, to a good extent, are related – worth the redundancy – to Catalonia's relationship with the State, there are indeed great consensuss of a country that we are pushing and that I would like to put in full, and a few. Some are the initiative of the Government, other initiatives of other institutions in which the Government has participated or collided, but in any case it draws an important scenario, I think, or remarkable, that we have space to agree. Pact against School Segregation, promoted by the Syndicate of Greuges and the Department of Education; it was initialled a few days ago in Parliament. It is an important pact, which, moreover, needs to have a long run, which will go to improve and transform positively what is the reality of our specific education system in Catalonia. Secondly, we are pushing the National Disability Pact, with the aim of advancing towards non-discrimination and true integration. They spoke of Councillor El Homrani and the same president of the Generalitat. We have already set out, and there was the first plenary that gave the start, that gave the sort of exit to the National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge. The first work meetings have been held and we hope, therefore, that the first results will be held at the length of the second semester. We want to realize the national pact for the eradication of male violence, framed in all the initiatives that the Government, in a cross-cutting way, is pushing in question of equality between women and men, and elimination of the masculinist massacres that still threaten us today. This week we held this country agreement for coexistence, for the non-use of immigration, so, like the electoral weapon, and it pushed this Table of Dialogue of Parties and Entities against Racism. Therefore, we have enough strong, powerful spaces, some areas of work where we can generate these great consensuses. You have listed a whole series of issues that are material, let's say..., obviously this Parliament will discuss it and have to make a proposal, but that, basically, they are matter of the state sphere, because 135 of the Spanish Constitution, the labor reform and the status of workers, the pension system, the bank rescue, the reform of the judicial system, the analysis of the monarchy – this Parliament intends to do it, but it is forbidden – therefore, a plurinational reform of the State, the reform of the Law on Urban Leases..., that is what you understand is the electoral program or are the elements, right? , of the speeches of the Spanish election campaign and that, in any case, the motion of the following week may place it in your campaign calendar, but they show that, on all these issues, the interpretation of the Constitutional Court of the current Constitution and of the State, we cannot decide, Catalonia cannot decide on the 135 of the Constitution, on the labor reform of the Staff of Workers, on the pension system, on the bank bail, on the reform of the judicial system, on the supervision and transparency of the monarchy, on the Urban Lei d'Arrendements, is that, obviously, this country does not have the sovereignty that surrounds it, because they have placed these issues as well as the fundamental ones. And I agree: they are times that we have on the table and that we have to be able to overcome, but unfortunately, at these times, the current constitutional mark and the interpretation that makes it a constitutional court that for a few years ago, therefore, carries a clearly recent drift, saying that from this we have no competence. And that's what we want to decide. And that's why we're independent, some of us, because we want to decide about this too. In any case, it is important..., and I think we should be able to jointly design a way to establish a dialogue space with the institutions of the State, because it is clear that the political crisis that we have between the Catalan society and the institutions of the State can only be resolved politically. Any other solution will be either a non-solution or a piece or will make the problem worse. Repression is not a solution to a political crisis. Not talking, not addressing the issues is not a solution. This only involves more patience, wider political conflict, and obviously a violation of the rights and freedoms of the citizens. Therefore, we must commit ourselves, with a sincere and honest dialogue, with the institutions of the State to find a way out. The government of Catalonia tried, and in this first attempt, so we didn't get out. We did not get out because the Government of the State, therefore, decided to interrupt the talks that were going to be held in order to be able to form these spaces of dialogue, in good part, from my point of view, and, in fact, from the point of view of the Government, because of the internal tensions and pressures that existed within the same Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, and also throughout the external pressure. The fact that the figure of a provoked rapporteur that provoked, that it is a manifestation that tried to fill the Plaza Colon of Madrid, already shows that there is a part of the Spanish society that any question, any debate that means that Catalonia is a political subject with whom to talk, that there must be a political solution, so, go, the nervous poses, do not please them and mobilize this part of the Spanish society, that there is, that it is deeply nationalist, right? Therefore, we must continue to insist, and this Government will continue to insist on the dialect, which can be spoken of all, fundamentally, of the problem, of the big problems, because, if we have a problem around the independence of Catalonia, if we have a problem between this demand from a very important part of Catalan society, as is demonstrated in each election, in every configuration of this Parliament, if we have a problem about this, we need to be able to talk about this. If this question is removed from the dialog, it will be a dialog on other topics, which will be fine. If all goes well, if we negotiate, if we agree, we can solve other issues – so good – but we will still have the most important political problem we have at these times on the table without being able to solve. This is why we have always defended a dialog without limitations, in which we can talk about everything. And for the time being, we have not yet succeeded, because there is a veto on certain positions, and there was a veto on the part of the Government of the State on certain proposals that the Government of Catalonia or the Catalan institutions or the parties that set up a majority in Catalonia, that is, we can express it as we want to express, they wanted to put on the table. Therefore, if, from the outset, independence is required, it cannot put its proposals on the table, this will not be a dialect, it will be a monologue, it will be a yield, and this does not have any meaning. Therefore, we will not enter, like the Government of Catalonia, into a dialect in which it is said that of our proposals we cannot talk, because then it is not a dialect, that is to say, that they send us by letter what they believe we should do, and then we will decide, right? Obviously, we'll decide not to, because we'll defend our convictions with all the determination that we're capable of, right? Therefore, the dialog must be above all. And, surely, it will take time and it will require flexibility and it will require a lot of patience and it will require discretion and it will also require a shared public explanation; okay. All the dialogue and negotiation processes go this way, but there must be political will. My wish is that as a result of the April 28 elections a parliamentary composition and also a representation of Catalonian citizenship that can advance towards this scene, because we need to find a political exit, a political and democratic solution to a conflict that is essentially political. And in this sense, and in this line, the government will be totally compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.19.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now, for the reply, has the new word the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.20.0	Yes, thank you, Vice President. I appreciate the suggestions for the young lady, but I would appreciate it if you would leave the young lady to us, that we are the ones who present this inquiry, and you are doing your job, which is to govern. So, we set the papers right, because we see that, rule, they do not rule, but they do want to say what the opposition is to do. You say that we have presented you here with the main campaign themes. I'd say no, I think the main theme of the campaign is the dialog. Now, what's there to talk about? You said you should be able to talk about everything, but mainly about the big issues and you talked about repression and independence. I'll tell you, obviously, repression and the right to a reference are phoneous. Now, I think that having a decent habitat is also a big problem, especially for all those people who don't have it. I think having decent pensions for the law and for reaching the end of the month and being at the cost of living level is also a big problem. I think having equal opportunities is also a very big problem. So, in the end, that's a big problem or not much of the eyes you're looking at. I believe that you were also prepared with your speech on school segregation, on the fight against racism, which I thank him for, because it is a complex subject that we are presenting, and therefore I have seen it a little erratic, but I insist on the question: you accept the challenge of drawing up, from this Parliament, a Catalan agenda shared with all the big problems for you and for that 53_per_cent for which your biggest problem is not independence and from there to convey it to your dialogue with the Government of Spain when we have a new government? I'd like to know if you'll accept that. We are convinced that Catalonia cannot move forward if Spain does not change, but if Catalonia does not change, Spain cannot move forward either. And I believe that, in this sense, all the actions that we take from Parliament must be put forward; for this reason, we propose this shared Catalan agenda, which is an agenda for the future and which is an agenda for change. And, before those who only want to go to the institutions to block, which I don't know what it is that they want to block, we, in any case, want to block are the factual interests, the factual powers, the lobbying, Article 135, IBEX 35 or the extreme right; this is what we would like to block, but we do not want to block either the lowering of university fees or the regulation of the loguer; things, of course, that you have blocked by falling an agreement of assumptions that you did contemplate. We believe that we must work in this line of future and progress. Look, we believe that the government that is sitting at the banquet cannot continue there, so we believe that Parliament must regain the strength and power it has as the institution of Catalonia's self-government and must pull forward on its own initiative and gather the great consensus of the majority of Catalonia's citizens. For this reason, before a government, I insist, that it is sitting at the banquet of a new moment, we propose that there has been clarity before uncertainty, we propose hope before frustration and we propose a transformation agenda before paralysis and blockage. In view of this situation of triple crisis that we have commented on and in which we play forward in more or less right, in more or less freedom, in more or less democracy, we believe that Catalonia cannot be left behind. We need to regain the great consensus of Catalonia in order to advance in democracy and in order to advance in sobrieties; some sobrieties that, moreover, we know that we believe that they must be shared and that Catalonia must be able to decide who they are in this bilateral relationship with Spain. We have to get Catalonia back to being a symbol of progress and courage and also a engine of change. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To close the inquiry, has the word, finally, the vice president Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.22.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My honourable Member, obviously you will present the motion, and in any case, I would allow this little luxury to make a suggestion to you, but, if you do not take it, I am not entirely convinced that some parliamentary group will do something about it. He drew the schedule of his own cycle. The agenda that you have presented here is an agenda, basically, in Catalonia's relationship with the State, not only in questions of sovereignty and democracy, but also in questions of the backs of the social sphere. I think that we also need to talk about all the challenges in the environmental, functional, and so on, that you have put on the table; but there are also great consensuss that we can build on the yes of the Catalan society, in which we can already decide, and that is why I related to it a whole series of themes in which we can do it, and in which we can do much more, and in which we can move much further together. And the axes that we have presented in the proposal of assumptions, which at last has not drawn forward, and which I hope I can draw forward, therefore, with the new political circumstances that are derived after the elections of 28 April and 26 May, also collect these consensuses: a clear bet for teaching, a clear bet for the better in the field of salvation, a clear bet for the Department of Treball, Social Afers and Families, for the dignity of our country's security and emergence policies; a clear job, also, to start reducing the cost of access to university, from paid scholarships to reducing university fees. This was what we proposed; that you heard that it was not enough and therefore decided to reject it. But, in any case, we note that there are great consensuses that we also had in the proposal for a budget. And, obviously, apart from all this, we have to work in the field of how we guarantee the sustainability of a pension system that, with the transformation that is going on in the world of work, with the transformation that is going on in the production systems, in which the working relationships change, change..., and in which we have to be prepared so that we can face these changes from a most equitable and with a guarantee of access to work, and of quality and dignified work. Because, if we don't, we're going to be flushed by precariousness both in terms of quality of work and temporality. Of course we have to work on this. And the government has decided to work there. In the field of our skills, through active employment policies that we make through the Occupational Service of Catalonia, or, for example, with the impulse of vocational training; another great consensus, the Law of Vocational Training, which was in this Parliament, and which we have set aside the Rector Council of the Vocational Training System in Catalonia. And of course we have a front in the field of housing. And here there are differences between the government and its group – I already admit – in some questions, in some aspects of some of the housing policies that we are putting into effect. But some housing policies that can be addressed in two ways. On the one hand, for the most regulatory area: law changes. And here basically there is regulation in the field of the logger. In the field of Catalan civil law, the regulation of contracts, we can hold locks; we can have work spaces: we will work. There is also, obviously, the Law of urban leases at the state level. But beyond the regulatory sphere, beyond the legislative change in housing, there is a need for resources. Because it is obvious that with a public park of sufficient size, that we were able to modulate, even more so, because of the impact that you have on the market, an important public park, in the terms of the objective of urban solidarity that we have to the Housing Law of 2007..., it was important enough to give answer, also modulate the prices of the free market. Therefore, if there is a sufficient supply of public housing to logger. To do so, we need presuppositionary effort. For many years we have had one, in the financing of housing policies, which came fonamentally– also during the Government of the Left– of state housing plans. Now it's recovered a little, not enough. But this we have replaced, and we have found resources, raising them, for example, to the Catalan Institute of Finance, with 250_million euros, to give support to the public promotion of protected housing. Therefore, we work with consensus in this area, totally in agreement. And I think, well, we'll be loving your proposal and your young lady for this Catalan agenda. In fact, the points that the President of the Generality transferred to President Pedro Sánchez, therefore, incorporate a part of this. Of the rest of our issues, we are willing to talk about it, and I think we can reach important consensus. So, we'll be loving your young lady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.23.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[Asking the Government about the best needed for the Catalan school]] [[300-00108/12]] Let us then turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the best needed for the Catalan school, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose the inquiry, has the word the deputy Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.24.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. One of the mantras of nationalism is that our education system is a model of success. Well, to be able to say that an education system is a model of success, one must have a set of objective indicators that support this assertion. Let's see what happens in Catalonia with these indicators. Does Catalonia lead any national or international rankings in science? No, no, In mathematics? No, no, In Reading Understanding? No, no, In equity and equal opportunity? No, no, So my first question is: what are they based on to say that the Catalan education system is a model of success? Because it's not just that we don't lead any positive rankings. The bad news is, the ones we lead are negative. Let's see what with objective data. First of all, we have the theme of the barracks. Catalonia is the autonomous community with the most barracks, much different from the second autonomous community and other autonomous Spanish communities, which simply do not have barracks. We've got over a thousand. And not just that. It's just that there are centers that have been in barracks for 20 years. That is, promotions and promotions and promotions of students who have not known in their life anything but to study in barracks. And all this because of his poor management, the poor management of Squerra Republicana, the poor management of Convergence – or as they call themselves this week, which I don't know – or the poor management also of the PSC and the commons, which were then called Initiative per Catalunya Verds, because they have also ruled, and throughout all these years, from the 1980s to here, the number of barracks has remained stable. That is, we cannot claim that there are barracks because there has been a demographic rise, or because there has been an immigration avalanche. No, no, it's just it's been stable from the '80s to here. I insist: this is the result of the poor management of the political parties that have been in the government. And the most serious problem, of course, is the well-being of the students, I repeat, those promotions and promotions of students who in their life have known nothing but to study in barracks. And it can't be that students die of cold in winter and heat in summer. But it's not the only problem. It's just that the barracks are very expensive for us. [[Widow's remorse.]] We, Citizens, have already submitted a battery of questions to find out how much it costs us – if you could turn down the volume a little bit, please... – to have to buy and keep those barracks. I hope you have a little bit more luck than with the language projects at the center and you give me that information, because we already know it costs you a little bit; you tell me the information, you don't give me the information I ask for. Of course, they'll say they can't get rid of the barracks because it's an economic issue. Well, in the last few days we have known that more than 400_million have been wasted – let us know, that perhaps there are more – on buying the wishes of journalists, academics, so, with small trips, with dinners, with 100_euro wines... Do you know how many barracks could be removed with those 400_million_euros? Look, I'm gonna tell you, everybody. Because with these 400_million_euros could be built between one hundred and two hundred schools. That is, we would end the barracks and, in addition, we would also end those institutes that are in bad condition or those schools that are in bad condition, which is another of the problems. Because barracks are not a biblical plague. I insist: there are autonomous communities in which there are simply no communities. Why do we in Catalonia have to endure children studying in barracks from the 1980's to here? And another of the mantras that always appears attached to the model of success is... that the Catalan school is the only one that guarantees social cohesion. Well, this statement is not supported by the slightest rational analysis. To begin with, if we take into account that the model of Catalan school is so bad that it is not done anywhere else in the world, then to say that this is the only model that guarantees social cohesion is as much as to say that in the rest of the world there is no social cohesion, which we will agree is quite absurd. But it's not just that, it's that to analyze whether an educational system guarantees social cohesion at international level – not the mantras you invent, huh? , I say at international level – what is being studied is equity and equal opportunities. Well, let's see what happens in Catalonia with equity and equal opportunities. For starters, living in one neighborhood or another in Catalonia is up to eight times more likely to fail at school. That is, the postal code marks your chances of success or school failure. Counselor, why is it that you were born in one neighborhood or another that is such a disproportion in terms of academic results? And, above all, what steps will your department take to solve it? Only with this indicator – only with this one – would we already be clear that the Catalan education system does not guarantee equity or equal opportunities; but unfortunately we have more indicators in this regard. For example, Catalonia is the autonomous Spanish community and the region of Europe that has the most school failure with people of immigrant origin. Having a foreign origin or having your parents have a foreign origin does not make you worse student, as the results in, for example, Castile León show, or as the results in, for example, the UK show, that they will not tell me they have no immigration. But here in Catalonia, you've got the result. Counselor, why in Catalonia does it penalize you to be of foreign origin or your parents to be of foreign origin? Why does it penalize you here that you were not born in Catalonia? What analysis have they made about it and above all what do they intend to do to resolve it? Because in Citizens we believe that talent doesn't go through neighborhoods, and that we have to rescue that talent wherever it is. It can't be that in Catalonia having been born outside or having parents outside penalizes you. More indicators of the lack of equity and equal opportunities. In Catalonia the Spanish speaking students triple the number of repeaters of course that the Catalan speaking students. And in addition, nine_of_each_ten students who repeat two or more courses are Spanish speakers. Counselor, why in Catalonia does it penalize you to be a Spanish speaker? That there are also three reports, already, that tell us that they produce worse results in all socio-economic strata. That is, even when we distract the socio-economic variety, it continues to penalize. Why? And, above all, what are they going to do to fix it? More indicators show us that Catalonia does not guarantee equity or equal opportunities. Catalonia is the second autonomous community where academic results depend more on the socio-economic situation of families. What does this mean? Well, in Catalonia the social lift is broken, and the stairs are not in very good condition either; you can't even go up the stairs, I know what I'm saying. On the other hand, Spain is the second country in Europe with the most drop out of school, and, within the drop out of school, Catalonia occupies the eighth position. Being in the eighth position of the country with the most school failure, the truth is that it is no good indicator. Catalonia's average drop-out rate is 17_per_cent, and the average set by the European Union for 2020 is 10_per_cent. What are you going to do to get us to that grade? And then there's the subject of school segregation, which is the star theme of this legislature. That is, that we have been holding on for years to be told that the Catalan educational model is a system of success and now tells us that it segregates. I mean, they recognize that it segregates, that's what it's been saying citizens for a long time. Can you explain to me from what cynicism it is possible to recognize that the school is a model of success? Because, listen, no, an educational model that segregates is not a model of success. It's not going to be, maybe, that they're worried about everyone having the same opportunities and taking away their jobs. Because of course, segregating and modeling success, no. Either one or the other, but both things at once, no. And, by the way, we are Spain's second most segregated autonomous community. I mean, it's true that the problem of segregation is very serious, but then don't tell me it's a model of success; either one or the other. And, of course, in this pact, the syndic – once again he has been the syndic of the nationalists – has only taken the things that seemed right to you and has not accepted any of the contributions of Citizens. And then we go with the real segregation that is in Catalonia. Children with autistic-looking disorders cannot stay for lunch in school dining rooms. There's nothing more segregating than this, I can't think of anything else. Students who have diabetes or some other type of special educational need, or their parents pay them an assistant or are not going to be able to go from colonies. Do you imagine how those children feel, that on top of having a disease you can't go from colonies because you don't put them in attendance so you can do it? Or deaf children, who have no interpreters and spend hours there without knowing what's going on. And don't tell me it's a matter of money, that the prosecution is already investigating, thanks to the work of Citizens, the more than 10_million that they have given to private associations of the Valencian Community – more than 10_million, and thanks to the work of Citizens is already being investigated in the prosecution. With these 10_million we would end the problem of children segregated by their special educational needs. Look, the other day on TV3 he was listening to a family that had a child with special educational needs – that is, he knew what they were talking about – and he said: "Inclusive school is a deception. Look, I can't think of a better definition. Here in Catalonia... inclusive school is a trick. The same way it's deceptive to say that this model is a success model. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.25.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Education, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.26.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament... Mrs Sierra, you have started with the mantra with which each question begins, which we have every fifteen days and which we are repeating, with the same theme every fifteen days. And it starts with the mantra to talk about mantra. And it starts with a mantra-talking mantra, which is a mantra-talking mantra, and which brings us to this loop in which we are situated, in which you say that we say that the Catalan educational model is a model of success. And you, in this mantra that speaks of mantra and that stands in a mantra that speaks of mantra, makes it good. We say that the linguistic model of the Catalan education system is a model of success. This is what we have always said – this is what we have always said – that the linguistic model of the Catalan education system is a model of success. And that it's a model of majority consensus – that's what we've always said. And that is not acceptable to those who are outside this majority consensus – that we have always said. The Catalan education system is an educational system that has problems – we have always said this – which has many problems – and we have always said this. And what you have – and what you have – moments of success; it's also true – it's also true. Then you also take some other mantras that you always take. The mantra of the prefabricated modules. You're right about some things and you don't have any other things. Because it turns out that sometimes there are people who are right in some things and who don't have other things. Except you, who think you're right all the time. Who thinks you're right is always right is always wrong every time you think you're right. The subject of prefabricated modules. We have Catalonia around a thousand prefabricated modules. From this thousand prefabricated modules, a 30_per_cent are prefabricated modules that could qualify them as conjunctural; it is to say, that they are and that we will always have this so much percent, this amount of conjunctural modules. They're molds that have to be placed in a center because there's some work, they're molds that have to be placed in a place because there's been a sudden demographic change. And 70_percent of modules are structural modules; so they are modules that have to end with a construction. These are—these are—the ones we need to reduce—these are the ones we need to reduce. This 70_per_cent prefabricated modules that we have to reduce are in the planning to seven years of constructions of the department – planning to seven years of constructions of the department – which was explained to you in great terms by the director general of centers in the last appearance, in the commission of this Parliament, and that we are about to present, but the Spanish electoral campaign unexpected and the prohibition of the Electoral Board to publicly present plans to us have made it hard. But the Director General already told them we had it ready. These prefabricated modules, these seven hundred that we need to take out – accepting that there are three hundred that are part of this conjunctural mobility that will always be, and that is in the whole system –, these seven hundred have various motivations. But when you accuse all the governments that have done so and for the history of humanity in which you have not participated in Catalonia, that you are all... you leave a significant figure at the time of explaining, in part, why we came here. From 2000 to 2018, the Catalan public school has increased by 35_per_cent– by 35_per_cent– enrolment; it is to say, we have a 35_per_cent more students at the public school now than the year 2000. When, for example – to set an example –, Andalusia has a 12_per_cent more, or when, for example – to set an example – Galícia has a 3_per_cent less. Because there has been a significant, significant increase in public school in these divided years. Why? For a migration that other parts of the State have not held and for a transfer of trend from the school agreed to the public school, that other parts of the State have not held. Because if we look at the data for which it refers to private centers, Madrid has increased by 45_per_cent the enrolment in private centers at this time and Catalonia by 10_per_cent. Thus, there is a significant increase in enrolment in public centres. And this remarkable increase in enrolment in public centers explains, in a very good part – not all, in a very good part – this number of prefabricated modules. And there is a tendency to more enrolment every year in public centres and less in concerted centres, a product of many motivations, which also affects us. But in any case, we have a prefabricated module removal plan. Because it's a new construction plan. But I insist, I will not deceive him now and say: "Planning is of all thousand... Because all thousand, no. Because, I'm insisting, there's only a few conjuncturals that the year you see won't be in those thousand. And I'm sure there's some that I can't find out they're short-term, and I'm sure they'll be there. Then, for social cohesion. There is the Segregation Pact..., the Covenant against the Segregation of the Syndicate. You didn't like the percent of the pact. I didn't make the hundred per cent of the deal as it is. That's why it's a pact – that's why it's a pact. But it has been signed by all the Catalan assemblies of more than two thousand inhabitants. All the Catalan gatherings of more than two thousand inhabitants have all the political diversity that exists in our municipalities today for what it does to government teams – all of them. All of it. They signed it. Why? Because it is obvious that the Pact against Segregation addresses an important, fundamental issue to our school, to our society, to our municipalities. Because segregation exists in our barrels, in our cities, in our territories – it exists. And it exists for many motius– socioeconomic motius, as a result of the crisis, of the immigration allau, of the economic tradition of its own–, and it is obvious that the school, for a canton, must keep the tools for not getting this segregation in a negative way, but sometimes it must also keep the tools to try to modify it. But these are some of them at the school, which go further than the school. The topic of immersion, which comes out again, with the reference of the Calero report: it is not true, the report does not prove it. And if the report is well done, that many scientists are proving that it is not well done – and if the report is well done – it also shows that there is a diversity of results depending on the student's language. There is a diversity of results depending on the social origin of the student, the room where the student lives, and the socioeconomic reality of the family, I insist. Plus it's a report – and you know it – that it's about the PISA tests, which haven't been done for this, but it doesn't take all the PISA tests back or from all the colleges, but it just sorts out which colleges back the data. And it's a report that, I insist, the same scientists don't accept as valid, but it's more than just prove it, I insist. It is not unique to establish a causal relationship between the language of origin and educational inequalities – no. The use of the language fits the reality of the centres of agreement with the characteristics of the student, and the disadvantage that the fact of being educated in a language is reduced in comparison with the advantages that guarantee the full student the knowledge of two languages. And about inclusive school, if you want, we'll talk about it at the same time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs Sonia Sierra has the new word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.28.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Counselor. I don't go out to question it every fortnight – which I'd like, by the way – but I see that it's getting too long, my calls. On the pact: for look, we have not signed most of the parties, nor the majority education unions, because..., in the case of Citizens we have not signed it because it did not collect one of our proposals. You said it: it's a pact, they don't have to like you all; but, man, at least accept something you've said. Then it was just invented that I was talking about the Calero report, because I have not named it in my speech at any time. I imagine he was bringing it from home, had it prepared by the advisors, who had to say that, but I didn't talk about it. Is it a lie, that nine_of_each_ten people who repeat two or more courses are Spanish speaking? Is it a lie that the number of repeaters of Spanish speaking courses triples that of Catalan speaking courses? Because that doesn't come out in the Calero report. Is it a lie that we are the autonomous community of Spain and the region of Europe with the most school failure among students of immigrant origin? Is this all a lie, or is it true? So, don't tell me that is that the language model is a model of success when it is obvious that here there is a problem with the subject of language. Because, I insist, Castile and Leon don't have this. For example. Nor does this happen to them in the United Kingdom, that immigrants are doing very well. That is, with all the objective data that I have given and that you have not been able to disassemble, it is clear that it is not a model of success, neither linguistic nor non-linguistic – this is not a model of success. But it doesn't matter, because since you are absolutely impervious to reality and data, you are going to come out here again to say that this is a linguistic model of success – you, and next week the nationalist spokespersons. But what I like most about everything – I recognize it, huh? It's that I love – it's when you come up and say it's that it's an internationally recognized language model of success. Well, I said in the previous legislature: "Listen, let me have those documents that show that it is an internationally recognized model of linguistic success. Not one. I try my luck with you, and you send me this report – which, of course, does not at any time say it is a model of success –..., and what you do is congratulate the Government of Spain on the treatment it gives to the co-official languages. And what he does is say exactly the same thing as Citizens say. [[some applause]] : there is a need to strengthen the learning of mother tongues. Mr Councillor, are you going to listen to this report that you yourself have sent me and are going to allow most Catalans to study in your mother tongue? Because you have sent me this report that what you do is that recommendation. So I asked him for another one. Like this one, of course, shows nothing – shows that Spain is doing quite well, but nothing from the Catalan educational model – I asked for another. And then you sent me one called "Educational equity in Spain: regional comparison from PISA 2015. You sent it to me, which then says that PISA is not worth it, but then you send me an article – well, you sent me several things – from PISA, which you then say here that it is not worth. Me, for starters... I thought it was a little weird to send me an article that treats Catalonia as a region, but, well, it's the one you sent me, huh? And he literally says, "The most inequitable regions are Murcia, Madrid and Catalonia. I mean, you're sending me an article about Catalonia that says it's one of the least equitable autonomous communities. That is to say, that I am right in everything I have explained: that our education system does not guarantee social cohesion because it does not guarantee equality and equal opportunities. And I insist: it is said in a report that you sent me yourself. I mean, my question is, do you read the documents you send me? Because if you read them, there are two things that can happen: one, that you have an inordinate sympathy for Citizens, which I thank you for, and it sends us more and more information to prove that our postulates are the good ones, or that is that then I don't understand. Another issue is that maybe you think I don't read the documents you send me. Hey, I read myself to the shampoo label. If I went to look for all the language projects at the center and analyzed them, how can you believe I don't read my papers? You, as you're surrounded by vags who don't stick a stick to the water, think that the others are the same. No, the others are working. And you keep sending me documents that show that Citizens are right. And not only do you send me documents that do not say that the Catalan model is a model of success, it is that the European Parliament sent you a letter that said – and I quote literally – "According to Judgment 31/10 of the Constitutional Court, it is also considered to be the Spanish language of teaching in Catalonia alongside Catalan. So my question is: what do you do to follow the recommendations of the European Commission on the one hand, and of the European Parliament on the other, that what you are told is that teaching in the mother tongue must be strengthened and that Spanish is also a vehicle language? I hope you keep sending me these wonderful articles that show that the Citizens line is the good one and that... you say we're here alone. No, we're with over a million Catalans, who made us win the election. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.29.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I finally got the word, the counselor, to close the line.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.30.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Congresswoman, I am convinced that the people who voted for them are more polite and respect the rest of the people than you show day by day in this chamber. I'm the one who'd have to go out and say, "Look, you said vaguely to people who work. And, therefore, I should say to him: "Listen to me, I wouldn't have to answer him now. Because before disrespect, the only possible answer is silence. Of the people we respect, the only possible response to disrespect is silence. It's not getting on the sheet and saying you more. No, no, it's silence. It's the only one. And that's what we teach the schools to respect. And that's what critical thinking is, that it's a no-offender debate. And that's what confrontation of ideas is: putting ideas from the table to defend your own. I already knew what I would say; from the linguistics of the reports I sent him, I already knew what I would say. Because some of these digital ones that make the lie their raison d'être, some of these media that support unionism tougher, they already carry days to tell you what you said here and make this read faded. That they do it – that they do it – that they do it, if they fly. The fake is feedback. But, listen, he says: "Our postulates are the good ones. I've already told him that we're all probably closing up and all of us are wrong. But I'm not going to tell him that our postulates are the right ones. I will tell you that, in spite of the Catalan school, we will be leaving twenty-five schools, on the side of the twenty-eight schools that existed; six secondary institutes and two vocational training institutes; we will be presenting a new model of dual vocational training, with a staff of EUR 4 million, with a curriculum change and with more than one year's duration in enterprises; we will be creating a dual title of training, with sport and artistic training; we will be creating a specific three-year course of training; we will be creating a title of professional training; we will be creating a double title of training, with a dual title of training, with sport and artistic training; we will be creating a specific three-year course; we will be creating a title of professional training; we will be creating a double title of professional training in Catalonia; we will be creating a new profile of the specialized training courses; we will be creating a three-year specific title of training; we will be creating a title of professional training in another hundred groups of professional training in Catalonia; we will be working against a new profile of the specialized format; we will be creating a special three years's; that we will be creating a new profile of professional training, that we will be building a new professional training groups, that we will be working in the first, that we are preparing a new professional professional training from a new profile against a new profile, that we, that we, that we are working, that we are a new profile of professional professional professional training, that we, that we, that we, that we are a new profile, that we are working, that we are a new profile, that we are working, that we are a new, that we are a new, that we are a new, that we, that we are, that we, that we, that we are working, that we are a new, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working, that we are working Therefore, we work in the best needed for the Catalan school. And we work in the current circumstances, which is that we are still the debtors of the migration allusion; that we are still the debtors of the retail; that we are still the debtors of the crisis; of a political crisis, too, that paralyzed the department for many months, in a department that paralysis is very negative. But I insist: can we agree on teaching? Sure. But starting from the word "vague" we'll never get there. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[300-00109/12]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, which is the inquiry to the Government about the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, also presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. In order to explain the question, Ignacio Martín has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.32.0	Well, good morning, deputies and deputies. Good morning, Counselor. In the first place, I want to begin this inquiry by wishing it to come out and be certain in the new stage it starts; the same way that I want to wish the former councillor, Mrs Artadi, also the same: come out and be certain in a new stage that will surely also be difficult, but in any case I wish you to have the best of spells and uncertainties. Well, Councilwoman Artadi was given the opportunity to make a couple of inquiries, in which she predominated, presided over our conversation of opinions, cordiality, a friendly atmosphere, which does not mean that I, as a Member, as representing more than one thousand Catalans, do not see myself being forced to say things that to many citizens of Catalonia affect us and are simply offensive to us in the way that the public media in Catalonia are focusing on reality or are taking part in the separatist discourse, in all that has been called the separatist process. From this point of view, during the years of the process, the attitude or performance of TV3 and Catalunya Radio has been so prolific in examples of distortion of reality and of information manipulation, that I think that this inquiry could almost turn into a fixed section of plenary sessions, to serve the media term, and surely there would be material every week to make an inquiry of these characteristics. Only to see the position that TV3 and Catalonia Radio are holding towards the judiciary to the authors of the coup to the democracy that we suffered the conjunction of Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards on the 17th, in which, therefore, with this coverage that TV3 is giving is proving that TV3 and Catalonia Radio have become a correct transmission of defense arguments and abandon any claim of equanimity and truthfulness that should preside, logically, the performance of public media of quality. The concept of this has recently been met with the double sentence of the Central Electoral Board, both on TV3 and in Catalonia Radio, for its disparate arrangement with separatist parties in electoral period. This arrangement, obviously, is not circumscribed to the electoral period, but extends to the conjunction of the year, to the period of the process, but in the electoral period it is especially bloody for it represents a lack of respect for the principles of information neutrality and the principles of political pluralism, which should logically be two fundamental values in the performance of public media of quality. The first of the sentences, the first of the resolutions of the Central Electoral Board, the first of the convictions, has to do with the coverage of the independence demonstration that took place in Madrid on March 16, a few days ago, because that was not a demonstration, it was directly an act of party, it was an act in which they called for instructions from separatist parties, they echoed instructions from separatist parties, they exhibited symbolism of separatist parties, and they exhibited directly photos of separatist party candidates for their own elections. All this is a clear example of information manipulation and the arrangement of public media with a part of the Catalan society, in this case the Government, which makes public media an instrument to operate its social engineering. From this point of view, I believe that TV3_has demonstrated its ductility or..., the directors, above all, the directors of TV3 and Catalonia Radio have demonstrated their ductility before the Government of the Generality's claim to convert these media into propaganda and agitation media, and I believe that, from this point of view, public communication media should be radically different. There's a question that I think the government is trying to confuse. We, with our complaints to the Electoral Board, do not pretend that you, as representatives of a political party, stop saying the things that the Electoral Board has told you that you cannot say because you distort reality and cause confusion between the electorate. Terms such as political prisoners, repression, repression, etc., or exiles, are obviously terms that do not conform in absolute terms to which the international law is, much as the Greuges Synod says. Indeed, they are terms that exist, but they do not apply to the case, they have nothing to do with the thing that you, like political representatives, and TV3, like media already, or Catalunya Radio, try to impose as reality. This is not, at all, something that is opinionable or questionable, but it is obvious that there is nothing in Spain that you say. But, fix it there, we don't pretend that you, as political representatives, stop saying it. No matter what happens, for a matter of decency and for a question of respect for the principle of pluralism, sense of doubt – no matter what happens. But they have the right not to do so and continue to detonate this message. What is not right in the way is that a public medium does language on the one hand, the language of political parties – of government language, in this case – the official slang of the issuer, the official slang of the chain, and present this as a reality, when everyone knows positively that it does not correspond with the image that you come from Spain. We know, because the European Commission tells us that the Spanish judicial system is one of the most independent systems in Europe. We know that, because all international leaders present Spain as a full democracy, as a first-level democracy. And, therefore, it is impossible that, before the absolutely flattering reality that tells us that Spain is an absolutely solid democracy, consolidated and recognized for the conjunction of the world, whatever you claim to say about Spain, that it is assimilation of the Spanish political system with a dictatorial or authoritarian system..., it is obvious that there is no sense of consistency. I insist: but, still, we defend your right to say so. It doesn't look good to me, but they can tell. Who can't tell by the way, because you have the obligation to respect the principles of information neutrality and to respect political pluralism, it is the public media that we pay among all. I assure you that on the day Puigdemont, Torra and Junqueras are paid for their communication media..., that they pay for their butxaca, not for all or trying, with subterfuges, to make us pay for their expenses and their interests, as they often do. But that day, on the day that Mr. Torra, Mr. Puigdemont and Mr. Junqueras are paid for their media, we will stop criticizing this performance of the new television, which, it is said as it is supposed to say, Tele Puigdemont, Tele Junqueras, Tele Proces or as it is supposed to say... but in any case, this will have to stop being a public media. A public media must have the will to serve the assembly of the citizens of Catalonia and not to exclude and diminish the sensitivities of many citizens of Catalonia, who feel Catalan, Spanish and European, and who, above all, have a right – because it is a constitutional right – to a true and equitable information. And it's not what we're getting from our public media. In this sense, we have hardly seen the reaction of TV3, which has been a reaction to re-engaging with the Government of the Generality, even making a hashtag in the Frequently Asked Questions program, in accounts of political prisoners, seemed to be a very fun thing to talk about. I, in fact, more than ridiculous, the fact that a public television, in an information program, makes this clear show of defiance to the institutions of the right-wing State that guarantee the rights and freedoms of the citizens together, in such a muddy way, seems to me to greatly degrade our public debate. It's not admissible for this to happen on public television. I insist that before: all this terminology that makes TV3 serve to whiten what is, sense doubt, therefore, an attack on our brand of coexistence, a systematic violation of laws and judicial resolutions – this is not an interpretation that we ourselves, which is subjective, but that it is something that the Constitutional Court finds; it has recently found, and it has also found, various previous sentences–..., so I believe that what we cannot accept is that this is converted into normality and that it is intended to follow the official language of the chain. To say that Puigdemont is an exile or that Junqueras is a political press is exactly the same as to say that what Mr. Pujol did escaping taxed Andorra was international cooperation or sending family remittances to his family to Andorra. [[Greetings.]] From this point of view, TV3's reaction makes clear to what extent the channel's direction has converted the public television into what it said, an agitation and propaganda apparatus, which we would not fail to denounce from here, from the Parliament, to the judicial institutions and with all the tools and instruments that the state of right places in our abyss to guarantee the rights of the citizens. Beyond the two examples of the Central Electoral Board, the electoral act presented as a manifestation absolutely, let's say..., that it had an acceptance for the conjunction of Catalonia's citizenship, when it is obvious that this is not true, it is a manifestation on the part, it is an electoral act, and beyond the use of this language, we saw just a few other examples that are scandalous to me: the visit of President Torra to Portugal. President Torra goes to Portugal and presents us with Portugal as the most democratic country in the world. Obviously, I will not be the one to discuss the quality of Portuguese democracy, beyond what the ranquings say, which always present Spain as a democracy far more full and much more consolidated than Portuguese democracy, than French democracy, than Italian democracy and North America democracy; but in any case, I do not discuss Portuguese democracy, nor good democracy. But Mr. Torra's doing is to present Portuguese democracy as more advanced than Spanish, because he supposedly recognizes the right to self-determination. Mirin, no: the right to self-determination recognized by the Portuguese Constitution is for the colonies, in a process of decolonization. The Constitution is of the year 76, refers exclusively to colonies, and not logically to the territorial integrity of the same Portuguese State. And, moreover, if they want to contextualize and give a true information to the city council, what they should have explained is that this recognition has nothing to do with the possibility of leaving, of dividing the national territory, but that, moreover, Portugal is prohibited from local parties – not the separatists, but directly local or regional – and it guarantees the indivisible unity of the sovereignty of the Portuguese people's council, exactly like Article 2 of our Constitution. Therefore, TV3 should inform truthfully and not be a transmission correctness of the message of separatist parties, which is what it has been feeling during these years that the process has lasted. And the only thing we ask of you is that you do handcuffs and handcuffs because that's what happens. It is obvious that they have no intention of doing so, but we ask them: please, madame will advise. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.33.0	Thank you, Mr. Martin. The words of Councillor Meritxell Budó, the Councillor of Presidency, who would like to take the opportunity to welcome her first intervention in this plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.34.0	Well, good morning, President, thank you very much. Deputies and deputies, first of all, thank Mr Martín Blanco for his cordiality. To be political antipodes does not exclude, therefore, that we may have this relationship of cordial debate, as has been his intervention. Therefore, allow me, first of all, to thank you for your cordial tone. Actually, now the president was welcoming me; it's my first question, and it's my first intervention in this chamber. And I'm opening up about the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation and our communication media. In fact, Councillor Turull also premiered with an inquiry on the same subject, presented also for his political group, and if this legislature was a normal legislature, today, who would be here again responding to his inquiry would be Councillor Turull, today unfairly engaged. [[Greetings.]] You now remembered this in your speech: during this parliamentary term you have spoken enough about the corporation in this Parliament, in the plenary, in the committee, and in the specific control sessions, you have the opportunity to directly question the president and the directives of the public communication media. I thank you for giving us, another time, this loudspeaker to talk about this subject. We'll never get tired of talking about communication media and corporate, and it's always a very good opportunity to do it, and if it's in place, and if it's hoping to add more. But, in fact, all the good news of the intervention, so unfortunately, his intervention did not go on this line. Surely, our positions in many fears, and medianatels of communication can be one of the clearest..., are so far away from our positions that we could say they are diametrically opposed. Miri, we defend public communication media, like the key piece to configure the communication space. Some media that are an area of professionalism and rigour, that are a guarantee of accurate, plural and true information, as many studies have shown about the plurality of these media. We are compromised with freedom of expression and defence of the fundamental rights; unlike you, they are installed in a permanent conflict and confrontation. In fact, he is now referring to the terminology being used, or has set the example of "pilitic prisoners who must have used FAQS in view of this prohibition by the electoral board to be able to speak of political prisoners and exiles in the media. In fact, we do not use terminology, we talk about using euphemisms, as it was used in darker times in this country, to tell what is forbidden to say. We'll be back at this point: it's a ban on what's to be said, and so we have to find these euphemisms. Well, as I said, we're compromised with freedom of speech and the defense of phone rights. And so much so that we have reached the extreme that, while we want our media to be better, free and independent every day, you want them closed or intervened in their dictatorship. Maybe that's why you presented the complaint before the Central Electoral Board, for the coverage that TV3 gave – as you said now – to the demonstration against the October 1 trial that was held in Madrid on March 16th, and that now, the Central Electoral Board asks that it is compensation, with two hours of coverage, the parties that did not support it. The Central Electoral Board has taken this decision, revoking the agreement of the Barcelona Provincial Council, which did not admit the complaint of its party, Ciutadans, against TV3 and Catalunya Radio, for the coverage of the event. At the same time, the Barcelona Provincial Electoral Board has banned the use of the two terms, such as political prisoners and exiles, since they consider them contrary to the principle of information neutrality. But this same electoral board does not find any problem that, in the second five months, it is possible to talk about « fugitives from justice, « thumpers, and that the members of Vox, at these times, are making their own electoral campaign as they intervene, as a particular accusation, in the trial against the process. It makes sense that we have a double rod to measure. In fact, many circles have described themselves as violations of the rights and freedoms of professionals, and also as violations of the rights and freedoms of the citizenry, to which these professionals must inform. I have been condemned by the Catalan Journalist College, which considers that, once again, the Central Electoral Board is exceeding itself with its functions, and understands that it represents a full-fledged interference, in one of the fundamental pillars of democracy, such as freedom of information and non-political interference. Of course, the director of TV3 has also denounced Mr. Vincent Sanchis, who defends rigour in the use of language on public television, and believes that the decision of the Central Electoral Board to ban the words "political pressure and exile creates a feeling of defencelessness and impotence. But we go further, TV3 and Catalunya Radio's professional councils also consider it an attack on freedom of expression; TV3 and Catalunya Radio's business committees have considered it censorship and restriction, too, to freedom of expression. In fact, in the area of state journalism we also find, in this case, that the president of the Federation of Associations of Journalists of Spain considers that the use of the word cannot be prohibited. In fact, freedom of opinion is contemplated in Article 20 of the Constitution, and is exercised through the word. Also in the white Spanish, Reporters Without Borders and its president have commented that, in their desire to preserve institutional neutrality, the electoral board has gone beyond limits. In fact, in this case, the board has become an editor. The Greuges syndic has also positioned himself on this assumption, huh? , and in this case, in defense of the professionals of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation before the Electoral Administration, because it considers that the use of the expression expressed by the professionals of these media cannot be considered to be counter to the principles of equality, plurality, and political neutrality, since it is a recognized expression for international law. Indeed, Lords of Citizens, it is true that you have won the two resources, and, in fact, with your action, more than you have won, who has lost – who has lost – is this country again; you have lost – we have lost – in freedom of expression and in the rights of all citizens to free information of coercion. In fact, the electoral board only acts motivated by the resources of political parties, and in this case, only its party, Ciutadans, is playing this card of conditioning the freedom of journalists, appealing to the Electoral Law. In fact, it may be present, too, that the main international media use the word "exiles; media like the BBC, media like The Guardian, the Financial Times, Sky News. It seems to indicate that freedom of expression is a fundamental right that preserves the outside world, and it would be good if we could emmirate ourselves with the prestige and rigour of these international media. In fact, one of the principles that is fundamental in democracy is freedom of expression, which, as we see later, in the State, some want limited. Not us, and the journalists, with their professional task, are and must be guaranteed freedom of expression. On TV3, the information follow-up that was made of the event, the late disbandment, had a hearing rate of 20_percent of midjana, one of the most visible spaces that day. In fact, the event was an informative priority, both for the Catalan media and for the Spanish state media, who also reported in detail about the event that was long-term in Madrid. You were talking to us about the trial and the follow-up that is being done on the Catalan television of the trial. Look, we, like the government, have to tell him that we don't decide the contents of public media, this is the business and its professionals' business. And the content and control of the contents so that they are adequate to the regulations, the Audiovisual Council realizes them. And corporation and council are named for this very Parliament and not for the government. Therefore, it will not be me, as counsel, and neither will the Government, who makes the assessments of the contents, programs or professionals of our media. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now has the word, for the reply, the questioner's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.36.0	Yes; thank you, counselor. Look, I usually use Catalan and Spanish in my speeches in Parliament, although I have a certain tendency to use Catalan more. Yes, it is true that I would like, in solidarity with the councillor of La Garriga, Mr Ángel Guillén, who used the Castilian in an intervention to address Andalusian neighbors of the locality, with all normality, as we do in Catalonia, with absolute tranquility, absolute normality, and you rebuked him, for having addressed the inhabitants of La Garriga Andaluces, or of Andalusian origin, or with family in Andalusia, in Castilian. It seemed to you that a sample of attempted segregation and almost an offence. Well, look, Mrs. Budó, the most normal thing in Catalonia is to speak Catalan and Spanish indistinctly. We live in a bilingual society, absolutely harmoniously, and it is you, when you speak of segregation, when you speak of the claim to offend someone by speaking to him in your mother tongue – which seems to me the greatest nonsense I have ever heard – who precisely generate abnormality in this harmonious coexistence between Catalan speakers, Spanish speakers and perfectly bilingual people. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, I would like to make this intervention in Spanish, precisely in solidarity with Councilman Angel Guillén, because I find it offensive what..., the answer you gave him. You tell me about the BBC as an example of neutrality and equanimity. And, indeed, I believe that, without knowing the details, we all have in the BBC a reference of how to inform public media, or those that are public, concerted or of the kind that is, in any case, a quality service, a public information service. Look, Mrs. Budó, I can't imagine the director of the BBC going to do campaign acts with stellar flags behind, or with flags of a party behind, or going through gossip or the media to interviews, to say that the main party in Catalonia, the most voted party in Catalonia, supported by more than a million Catalans, generates hatred. I believe that such attitudes would not be normal in any democratic environment, but here in Catalonia, unfortunately, we have normalized absolutely abnormal things. And some have developed a tolerance for patheticism and the unworthy thing that worries me, sincerely. And from this point of view, I want to make it very clear. It is curious that both Mr Torra and you, in your speech today, have spoken about the election board's claim to censor. Look, I insist on the argument before: there is no intention to censor your opinions as political representatives or as citizens, of course, what we ask you to do is that, as institutional representatives, when you are, for example, on the balcony of your City Hall of La Garriga, do not hang a stellate, which excludes a lot of citizens of La Garriga. When Mr. Torra is in the Generalitat, do not hang from the balcony of the Generalitat a stellar flag or party symbolism – which is exactly that, party propaganda. What we ask you to do is to respect the principle of institutional neutrality, not to stop saying what you want. However, I find it very curious that, just after what we saw yesterday in this Parliament, you dare to talk about censorship or you dare to talk about freedom of expression. Here the President-in-Office, Mr Costa, yesterday, replacing Mr Torrent, tried to prevent Mrs Arrimadas, the chairman of my parliamentary group, from saying what she wanted. And more specifically, when he was making a textual quote of the barbarities, of the nonsense that Mr. Torra has come to write throughout his life. By the way, they are not, as a representative of his Government said just a few minutes ago..., "things that he wrote a pile of years ago. No, it's things he wrote four days ago; 2015 he wrote yet an article about the Spanish speaking as a human-shaped beast. Therefore, I insist on what I say to you: do not speak of censorship, do not give lessons of freedom of expression, do not intend to tell us..., attribute to us their shortcomings, attribute to us their love, by silence the opinion that disagrees with their opinions, because we, as the majority party of Catalonia, have gone to populations like Canet, and there a mayor of one of the government parties, in this case Esquerra Republicana, has come to tell us that we could not be there, in Canet, that we could not do an act in Canet, and simply that we left. We've gone to throw out a Republican Left mayor, and that's the conception of the freedom of expression you have. I really have a word in Catalan that seems to me very precise to describe this, which is the « cofoisme, it is the self-congratulation of those who, in addition to being the ones who intend to silence the opposition, as Mr Costa did yesterday in a flagrant and absolutely unacceptable way in a democratic parliament..., those who intend to silence the opposition are, above all, those who intend to give lessons of freedom of expression and respect for pluralism; it seems to me that it is the summum of cynicism and the summum of the lack of internal coherence. No, look, Mrs Budó, what we are asking for, precisely, are public media that do not exclude more than half of the citizens of Catalonia. And, in this sense, perhaps it was something that was unclear whether or not to say, but there has been a very sad and absolutely unacceptable episode of what has happened on TV3 recently, which I would love for you to give me your opinion on. In the program De que es queixen les dones, a few weeks ago, it was clearly intended, in the line of dehumanizing the opponent, the political opponent– and TV3 has assumed that the opponents of Torra are their opponents and that is what we are extremely concerned about –, it was decided to present, as people who have and practice Machista attitudes, just, casually, three representatives, three commentators, in that case Mr Jordi Cañas, Mr Manel Manchón and myself; we were presented as people with Machista attitudes, as Machistas. Why? Because we defend the unity of Spain and because we defend the Constitution. It is absolutely unacceptable, in a democratic state of law, and in this case in an autonomous community of a democratic state of law, that public television should seek to point out and dehumanize a part of the citizenry for its political ideas. Of course, this is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.37.0	You're out of here, Mr. Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.38.0	Well, I'll be done when the time runs out, won't I? But, come on... no, if you want, I'll finish up and censor us one more time. But, go on, don't get used to it either, Mr. President, making censure every day. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.39.0	Mr. Martín, just an acclaim. I neglected to put the timer on when you started. That's why I asked him to finish. I didn't interrupt him, I just told him I was going to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.40.0	Excuse me. In any case, I insist, the attitude of Mr Costa, yesterday, is censorship; what the Central Electoral Board does is simply to demand that public institutions respect the principle of neutrality and respect for political pluralism, which is essential in a democracy. And you are refusing to hear and take this obligation. I would appreciate it if you would answer all the questions, and especially the one I asked you about the claim to dehumanize the political adversary. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.41.0	Thank you, Mr. Martin. Now, to finish the inquiry, the speaker of the Presidency has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.42.0	Thank you, President. I really appreciate you talking about my village, Garriga. Actually, for the past couple of days, I haven't been mayor in the last eight years. I cherish it infinitely, my people, and it could be hours talking about the Garriga with all the passage that I could express, because I feel it. But today we came here to talk about the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation and not about my municipality. So, so, if you don't know how hard it is... if you have any doubts about my actions like the mayor, we can talk about it, so, out here and I'll make it clear to you these facts, that they're kind of contextual as you explained to them. And, therefore, I will clarify it without any problem, with all the time you need, out here, so that I can explain it well, so that you exposed it not with all the rigour that required knowledge of the subject. But well, that's why we came here to talk about the media and not about the Garriga, and, actually, I'll talk about it with data, with audience data on TV3, for example, right? In fact, TV3_has returned to being a hearing leader in March; in fact, with the best first quarter of the last nine years. Portem, as hearing leaders, twenty_months after, with a 15_per_cent share, at much distance from the classified second. In fact, TV3 makes the best first quarter of the year 2010, and with twenty months of leadership makes its record. It was surpassed in 4.7 points the second string classified, Antenna 3, and in 4.8 points the third, that is Tele 5. TV3_was the most visible channel, thirty days of the thirty-one of the month of March. Twelve of the fifteen most-seen TV programs are on TV3. It is also the most valued chain in the March, with an 8,5, made for the German company GFK. The information is leaders in all their editions and is kept in the forefront of quality, with an index of 8.6, and they are also leaders in impartiality and credibility. TV3 is the most valued channel qualitatively. Increase video consumption: TV3_has dyed 13,2_millions of video playbacks– a 23_per_cent more than the previous month–, and more than 3,500,000 single users have visited the portal of the Catalan corporation, which is the best given since November 2017. Another relevant fact is that each time it grows more the names of people that sort TV3 to find out, and this follows the third onada of the CEO. In the November 2018 report, it is said that 53.4_percent of the respondents prefer to follow the information for TV3 or for 3/24 – 2.8 points per over the previous one. And, according to you, only the independents watch TV3, but, in change, every time there are more people watching TV3; so, I don't know how we could end up with this, right? In fact, I would like to thank them... to speak clearly, that they pass the mask, that they do not hide, that they say things by their name, that they stop deceiving people and say that what you want is to close the Catalan public communication media, because that is what you are chasing and what you want. We will continue to work to ensure, from this Parliament, that it is nearby, that the corporate model is independent and is a leader in both audiences and content. And you were asking me about the opponent's dehumanization. To me it is the effect that the dehumanization of the opponent who practices it with more examples is his political formation. Yesterday we had an example here in Parliament, and every day we have an example when you are unable to refer to the very honourable President of the Generality as President Torra. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about Aran]] [[300-00111/12]] Next, it is the dotze point of the order of the day, which is the inquiry to the Government on the Aran, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. And to expose it has now the parable of Congresswoman Anna Geli.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.44.0	Ben; good morning, President. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, political prisoners and exiles, comrades who were repression by the Spanish State, have you imprisoned and exiled and confined, before you stop, will have me allow you to say congratulations to the Council; as soon as the Council of Vilallonga – that, in case it is not, even then, the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers – we delay following that, so far, it is madeishi criteria of excellence, but as it was here at the Council of Ministers, it will be in the first stage of the legislative process. Councilwoman Budo, welcome Tath Plen Tanben. Only glad to be able to address him was his dusau interpellation. To receive eth witness now counsel Elsa Artadi will not be easy, even though he was acquittal to this day every journey that this age of besonh. Regret tanben was presence and eth trabalh tanben deth Secretary of Administration Place and Relations Lady Aran, Miquel Ángel Escobar, and tanben eth Secretary of Communication deth Govèrn, eth Monsieur Antoni Molons. Good morning. Well, I'm going to refer to important aspects that affect Val d'Aran now. Eth premér d'eri, eth nau finance model, e tanben eth papér dera Corporacion Catalana de Mejans Audiovisual. Counsel, like Catalonia, was Val d'Aran's no invention. It was Val d'Aran and a political subject with specific strengths different from that of Catalonia. Guardaz : Aran to that luenha geolocation, and, by definition, it is most inaccessible horns, of which country it follows, besonhs speciaus; they to Aran and the years are areas of this Pyrenees. We talk about the accesses if the small nuclides, now depopulation, now destationization, now monoculture toristic, and the access to air habitatge, it was difficult to see of this agriculture, it was ramaderia, it is besonhs of this joenessa and tanben of this people money. As far as this is concerned, it was a foreign specificity, which justifies the support of the Government of the Republic of Moldova, not that it is geographically enclaved, but that it was its historical, national, cultural, social and linguistic reality. Abandoned and unrecovery of democratic institutions, it is Aranese we work hard to avoid it was our disappearance as possible. I could explain to him, in his most politically correct form, that we are working on this social use of this language, that we are stimulating our traditions so that we can then give them to future generations, that it was school and that it is associations that are important for this literature, eth theatre and tanben was music. So much so that the use of spider society goes on for years. You're studying to prove it. It is statistical of the linguistic uses we did that by this twenty years and spiders could practically disappear from this everything. Because of this feeling as was deth the Constitutional Tribunal, which showed that it was a preference for this language, a demonstration, a journey a month ago, that the Spanish State would not be sensitive to us and discriminate and warn at least weakly – this also happens to Catalonia – we will not help, fail, print and delete. I want him to be a Spanish state, respect this language, respect this Val d'Aran. From travel, it was our identity that became that defense sonque phyloanthropologic. It is limitations of this self-government that are so many instruments from which we are distancing ourselves today's reality are not indispensable minimums in the artenhé'c. Cádir clearly said that it was in this generation that it was later that he used to be a regular spider. They're going to recognize him, for sure, as far as they know, we're going to be arrested. And it shall be questioned, counsel, that he speakest of the tongue: and he came to him in a deliberate manner, that, at the end of the day, it was a tongue, and all that was a nation as an alien. They want the right and extreme right-wing policies to attack us – they attack now, they attack my communications and they are used as a society – but they don't help equidistant policies and it's politics that pact was right. For all this, now that you think you're trying to warn people of a clear hunger, it's a risk that it was Val d'Aran, so I feel obliged to transport the Syrian society safely and, of course, this group of parliamentarians, in order to support the governments of the Republic of Armenia. A favourable financing agreement was reached in March in Val d'Aran; it was guaranteed that the financial stability of Val d'Aran would be achieved and that the Council of Aran would continue to implement policies to improve the quality of life of the Vesins and Vesies of Val d'Aran and, by extension, of the Vesins and Vesies deth Pirenèu. In its own right or in its own right, since the recovery of its own institutions in 1992, it has been a success for the governments of the United States of America which have been so sensitive to the needs of these countries, and which have been legislated in favour of the aspirations of the United States of America. There are laws of special regime and it was the Law of Aran, Tanben was the Law of Occitan, spiders in Aran. Tostemp has been co-responsible in an economic endowment that derives from past competences. An empirical action that also responds to this symbolism: it has never been before, to celebrate eth Govèrn Conselh in the past Generality in foreign countries; an action of respect and recognition that reveals at the time of autite types of behavior between governments, as for example in the case of this celebration of your Spanish Government in Catalonia, which, attention, change eth no dere aeroport deth Prat without consent of your territory; great respect eth deth president of your Catalan Government – great respect. That is why I continue, as a result of which I have agreed to finance, to advise, and then take advantage of it to ask you that, if you place it, we don't have any details of your response. Counsel, also transcended, after all, an agreement ship between the Catalan Corporation of Mejans Audiovisual and the Conselh Generau d'Aran. In a statement, eth conselh specifies that it will be stimulated was production and contented eth divulged that it will be made in spiders, and that it will also increase the themes on Aran and that they appear as much on Television of Catalonia as in Catalonia Radio; which question has been precisely removed now from my question; which question has now been left to reflect on its social use of this language. Eth contained in character divulged and eth contained in light its source your fifth process of normalization. Counselor, I'll be allowed to be a joke, but the spiders also want us to be "Sue Ellen, you're a hanger. So we want eth in this paradigm of linguistic normalization we mean. At this point, I wanted to ask him about his apprehension. I'm done. Steady and brave, counsel. Aguest grup parlementarian confides that he will be able to speak eth witness to Councillor Artadi, so much so that Councillor Jordi Turull and, above all, our president, in that so much so that now his sensitivities were Val d'Aran, so much so that he could be a frog and so much so that he was a Piraeus. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.45.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the President's advisor has the word to answer the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.46.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs Geli. I also take this opportunity to greet the Secretary of Local Administration and Relations with the Aran – good morning – and also the Secretary of Communication of the Government and the Mitjans of Communication – good morning as well. Certainly, Mrs Geli, I fully agree with her intervention: the Aran is not an invention. The Aran is, from Catalonia, a national reality with its own and distinct personality, based on the fact that the Aran community has a specific language and culture, common and shared with the rest of the Occitania, and, at the same time, an ancient tradition of self-government firmly defended by the Aran over time. This government placed for the first time the local world, at the level of competitive structure, within the Department of the Presidency. And we did so with the willingness to respond to the multiple relationships that each administration has with the Government of the Generality, which are cross-cutting and which go to very different departments. We understand that this is the best way to give an answer to the voice of the territory. With the creation of the Secretary of Local Administration and Relations with the Aran, since the government we have given compliments to a historical demand enclosing relations with the Aran in the competitions of the Department of the Presidency. This decision went in the line of making a much more explicit recognition of the national reality of the Aran, which we want to be much more known throughout the country. We have always understood plurinationality as a rich and not as a problem, and that is why we want to strengthen the links between the Orange people and the Catalan people. The different standard marks that existed since 1979 have led to a progressive recognition of the Arane reality, its institutions and autonomy in the management of services to the territories of the Aran. All this reality – and its right to decide – is also protected through the autonomy status of the year 2006. But we wanted to take a step further and a step that is defined, and on this line, on March 11, the government met with its Council General of Aran, as a way of replenishing the singularity of the Valley of Aran and also as a way of recognizing and showing respect for their institutions, their language and their culture. With the objective that the Aran advances in its self-government and to increase the recognition of the Aranian institutions, they have made various agreements that we believe are important for the Aran Valley. In the area of finance, the bilateral committee held on 10 October 2018 approved the creation of the Aran Sub-Committee on Finance as a support body for the study of a new funding system. This subcommission was marked as the objective that this new financing model allowed the Aran territory to have a management autonomy for its development. This has been the fundamental premise that has governed the debate process in the case of this organ, through various troubadours, various meetings, and that it has concluded with an agreement that materialized with its approval to the meeting of the bilateral commission that was hard to finish on March 22, Generalitat - Conselh Generau d'Aran. This agreement has a duration of five years – you explained to us that in doing so a brief explanation – and will give the Council more de-escalated and will also allow the Government of Catalonia a better planning of the expenditure. This agreement is concrete in two basic elements: from one band, it is part of a base year; it will have to be updated annually from certain indicators, such as the CPI, the expenditure rule, the non-financial non-final expenditure of the Generality and GDP. This is what has been called the unconditional funding fund. On the other hand, the management of self-government will also be taken into account through the competition management coefficient. The base year of determination of this unconditional financing fund is the year 2018 and has an import of 23,144,436 euros, and, depending on the presuppositional prorogation situation in which we find ourselves, this year the import of the unconditional financing fund will be the same amount; therefore, these 23,144,436 euros. The forecast is that five years from now, in 2023, the financing xifra is around 29_million euros approximately. And from the year 2020 this fund incorporates an additional endowment to compensate the Aran for the development of its own policies. This additional endowment, equivalent to 10_percent of the base year's fund, will be made available to the Aran in a gradual period of four years. In summary, this agreement allows the General Council of Aran to have sufficient resources to effectively and effectively complete the exercise of its functions and the provision of services to the territory of Aran with sufficient autonomy to manage them, while also allowing it to advance and expand transfers and skills. Also in the area of self-government two transfers have been formalised – important –: that of the management of the protected natural spaces of the Aran, and also that of the heliport of the southern mouth of the tunnel of Old to the Conselh Generau d'Aran. In the field of language, the Government strongly approved the use of public libraries in the Aran and the recognition of its literature and linguistic reality in the rest of Catalonia. The Government has also approved an action plan to promote language, traditions and the culture of occità, the Aranes a l'Aran, through the Institut Obert de Catalunya. He also agreed to progressively incorporate the orange into the stable contents of institutional fall to the websites of the Generalitat. And, lastly, in this linguistic area, a plan was also approved to improve the presence of orange in the field of salvation, since the use of this language improves communication during medical attention. They are also carrying out actions aimed at strengthening the presence of the Aranese in the public communication media of Catalonia. Signed by the General Council of Aran and the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation, it will enhance the range in the information wheels of channel 3/24, it will promote the doubling of children's programming in Aran, it will promote the presence in the Val d'Aran of entertainment and character programs disseminated in the first time of TV3, and it will also create specific web spaces in Aran to the websites of the company and 3/24. And it will allow me to make a joke of it: obviously this will allow the Aran to also hold his "Sue Ellen", you are a pendant. In fact, the agreement is the result of the work of the Joint Committee, the audiovisual public sector and the General Council of Aran, with the aim of promoting orange on TV3 and in Catalonia Radio established last November. In fact, the coming week, allow me to advance them, is previewed the signature of an agreement of collaboration between the Council and the corporation, in order to strengthen and boost the presence of the Vall d'Aran to different programs of TV3 and of Catalunya Radio. For what he does in the field of sports, there has also been a recognition of the specificity of the Aran, and this will also encourage the modification of the Catalonian Sports Law, so as to create and recognize the Aranian sports federations. In the social sphere, the Government will also allocate more than €452,000 to the future residence of large people and day centres in Les, to finance 30 residential places and day care. In the field of education, last November the Government also signed an agreement with the General Council of Aran and the University of Lleida; an agreement to include the option of aranes in the statements of the history review of university access tests for this year 2019. For what it does to connectivity, the government also dealt with the situation, and in this sense the forecast is that the Generality's optical fiber arrives in the Aran Valley just a year ago, starting with the deployment to Old Town and the Municipality of Naut Aran, and has balanced the occupation policies to the Aran. For what it does to the Emergence Management – also important – this bilateral commission gave green light to a new model of integral Emergence Management of the Aran Valley, which will develop the General Council. In fact, this new model will have a four-year transition period. You see, as it was compromised, and as a compliment to the law, this government is advancing in the recovery of the identity elements of Aran – language, history, culture, historical rights and national recognition –, pushing the progress for people and providing a stable financing system that allows these actions to last without oblivion of the process just to historical claims. With the consent of the territory and the institutions of the Americas, and with the utmost respect, I am convinced that this legislature will mark a historical tape for the recognition of the alienity of the Catalan society; a tape that will allow us to advance..., but freedom from all is possible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. I understand there's no reply. [[Asking the Government about trade policies]] [[300-00112/12]] So let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on trade policies, also presented for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. To expose the inquiry, the honourable Member Elsa Artadi has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.48.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Counselor. As you know, and we have spoken many times, both in government, but also in this hemisphere, we live in a world that is changing; that is changing and, moreover, does it in one way every time faster. Internationalization, connectivity, digitalization, which are at the center of this paradigm shift, affect us in all areas of our lives, from how we move, how we work, how we communicate. And that affects all economic sectors, you know better than anyone; you haven't talked many times and work hard in the application of Industry 4.0, not letting this industry 4.0 train pass us and not taking advantage of it. But it also affects the rest of our country's economic sectors, absolutely everyone. And in this sense, it affects only one of the most important for us, one of the most difficult, and it is that Catalonia is a trading country, and the new paradigm, so it is also affecting it, it is affecting trade; a trade that also forms part of the landscape of our lives. We would not understand our cities, our peoples without trade: almost a hundred_ thousand establishments, more than a million people occupied in the sector and, therefore, the affectation also in their families. And it is actually one of the characteristics of the trade sector also to see with the intensity with which it generates occupation. At the length of the years, from Catalonia and from all the institutions, therefore, he tried to bet on two lines. For a band, the balance of the different commercial formats: the small, medium and large commercial establishment. And also a bet for which are the compact cities. This... we have applied different instruments, and even the whole tax route, as it was at the time when the tax on large commercial establishments was implemented. A tax that was attacked by the Spanish Government, which ended up in the Constitutional Court, which we also had to defend before the European Union, which in the end gave us the reason; which gave us the reason in the sense of a tax to correct externalities, both in that it is the use of the only as in the generated mobility that causes certain commercial establishments and that goes in the line, therefore, of a better mobility and, above all, of a better quality of the area, and to maintain the balance of the different formats. Since your department last week, therefore, the third edition of the Trade Week has been celebrated. An initiative that has been pioneering, that has begun 2017, that we celebrate and that we encourage to continue realizing. It is also a recognition of the importance of this sector, of a type of celebration that does not exist so far, and as central to our economy. This Trade Week, therefore, has also served to bring together different areas of the trade sector, and also with the Administration, because this is also part of what we understand as public-private collaboration; with three very important objectives. First, it served to reflect together what the situation of the sector was, which are the opposites. In the second term, too, therefore, to intersperse projects and experiences that have been successful – those that have not, too –, because there is a shared knowledge, and also to generate spaces for the promotion of ideas and projects, always with the same shared objective, which is that it is a success of the future, that it is a success for the whole commercial sector in our home. We could define as three great reptes facing the sector itself now. The main thing of all is that it is immersed in this paradigm shift, with the emergence of the new technologies, that make appear, above all, a mode of trade that until now was very minority and that goes through a substantial change in consumer behaviour patterns, above all with the emergence of electronic commerce, that is changing everything, that is impacting on trade, but that is also impacting on the mobility and quality of the area of many cities, especially those that are more dense. Everything is changing, even if it is not as extensive as in other countries, but with very rapid growth taxes as it is urgent to see how we are evolving the sector, how we are competing and how we are living with a transformation that will follow. In the second term, which was linked but which is not excluded from the relationship with electronic commerce, the need to boost our commercial axes within a city's gaze, which helps to preserve traditions, which helps to preserve locals, also, emblematic, these habitats of coexistence, of commerce, which give life, precisely, to our barrels. And, finally, and even though the impact is not extended in all trade, it is indeed intense in areas – it is, in particular, in tourist areas in the city of Barcelona – which is the phenomenon of the "top blanket". And this call for him to respond to this phenomenon is not only from the point of view of trade, as well as from a member of the Government, because it has some effects that go far beyond trade, and that above all it has a social dimension that needs to be attended to and given an urgent response and to avoid the precariousness of the lives of many people. In this sense, I would like to ask the Counsellor about the Trade Agenda 2020-2021, which, in fact, was referred to in the Trade Week. At a time when data is beginning to reactivate and also to take advantage of, how we generate new business models, how we accompany this digital transformation maximizing investment, and how we make a change, too, of proactive trade management and profiting from resources, skills, how we innovate in a way that is fast and easy. Connect with this, how we give new skills, training, professionalism to the salespeople, to the workers in the sector, and how the new generations also see it as a future activity. And, at the same time, how we put trade at the centre of city plans to respond to consumer motivations and to generate a model for the future. And, therefore, how we converge our changes with a sector that must continue to feel like the future. In this sense, I would also like to ask the advisor about the development of the APEU Law, or the IDBs, which is known to the world: in what situation it is, as we have it oriented, how it is working from the department why it serves to give resilience, transformation, promotion and, above all, what happens to the strengthening of the partnership, which has been present, but surely it can strengthen it also in this sector. An APEU law that has been requested for the same sector repeatedly, also with the intention that there is a more direct relationship between traders and the same local administration, that it has not always been fluid and that it has not always been at all times and that therefore requires more public-private collaboration. An orientation that we understand, from this law, that it must be to seek solutions, if I may, from those that are in the bottom-up, solutions that arise from those that are the real actors, to give more competence to associations, actions that benefit the conjunction of the area where they apply, where there is a corresponding responsibility, where there is collaboration and where there is, if I may, those that literally raise the Persians, who are the ones who detect the best who are needed are the ones they have. It has to be the same sector, from its knowledge, from the will to prioritise the joint, therefore, that marks the actions that are really to be prioritized, that agree in a joint way actions that wander towards improving the uptake of investments, to increase demand, to increase the visit of the areas, so that they can revitalize areas or that they are more projected from the future. Managing empty locals, which we have many in many areas of the city; empty locals that are given a way out, that have to pass, in part, also, to attract more economic activity and that from the same scope, therefore, it is possible to guide what they believe to be complementary and what needs to be strengthened. The advice, the encouragement of formation, including the promotion of environmental improvements and the entourage that vaginates for the benefit of everyone; the management of public space and joint advertising, among others. A more concrete question and we hope that the councillor can also solve doubts in this area. We understand that the government thinks in no case of this tool to replace or to minimize services that are already being given by municipal services, nor, in any case, because from the private sector there are powers that are precisely from the Administration, that we believe it must continue to do. Finally, as he also pointed out at the beginning of the intervention, I believe that it is important that from the government a path is marked, a project is marked, according to the actions that should be worked for the approach of the phenomenon of the "top manta, to give solutions, to give solutions from an integral point of view. Especially in those areas of the country where there is a tourist influx is produced and has been, especially in the later years, the practice of the sale of products to the street without regulation, which obviously affects the occupation of the public street and, therefore, the coexistence of the public space, which in some areas has a negative impact on trade and restoration, but above all condemns to a lack of opportunity the people who are in a situation of vulnerability and who are the ones who end up practicing..., « making the blanket, that we would say. Then we would like to appeal to the Government of the Generality to how it is focusing, from different backgrounds, from all administrations, as it can lead, how it can put itself to the front to avoid a phenomenon that does not help anyone and that especially condemns many people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.49.0	Thank you, Mrs. Artadi. Next, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge has the word, to answer the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.50.0	Thank you very much. Thank you, Vice-President; thank you, Member. MPs, MPs, effectively, trade in Catalonia represents 101,000 establishments, some eighty-thousand businesses, and employs more than a million people. In fact, as you said, honourable Member, we are facing some of the sector's own challenges, but we are also conditioned by the emergence of the new technologies and phenomena – now we are talking about it – as the top manta, as we have derivatives of the change in consumption habits. Answering the questions you were asking me, the first thing we're referring to is this Easter Law. Obviously, in any case – and I can assure you this – it implies or rather relieves responsibility, the obligations that we have with the Administration of the Generality, not even at the municipal level, but complements. We are taking this initiative to develop this Law of Urban Promotion Areas, which is already in imminent progress towards entry into the Sicop and public information phase, because we understand that it is a complementary tool to which are already policies promoting commercial activity, both at the local level and at the level of General Administration. Why? Because it is each of the demarcated areas that will remain like the APEU area, it is each of these areas that has a defined environment, certain actors, and to whom also a series of determined actions. Therefore, we want to specialize, focus very and very well on the actions, so as to be the most efficient. Therefore, we understand APEU as a complement to the policies that are developing. You pointed it out: we have a lot of challenges for what makes the problem of the empty locals, we also have problems for what makes aspects to complement better around the city, events, dynamism of the sector... Therefore, therefore, we understand this law as a complement. Make reference also to what Trade Agenda 20-21 is. Obviously we are – we did not dare to do it longer, a two-year program, because the socioeconomic background is changing in such a way that it does not allow us to do it longer – a full route; a full route that integrates, as you pointed out, all these folds and a follow-up of actions. From the outset... and here it is a message that I also want to convey very clearly, when it sometimes happens that we don't manage, that we don't feel proactive in acting. From the start, only a few data: the programs that have developed this past year, the year 2018, linked to trade, are worth more than 7_million euros. What have we meant to do, in concrete terms? So, for what it does to competitiveness, to the promotion of the competitiveness of the enterprise through entities, to the associationism around trade, there are 3,8_million euros. To programs of participation in firal, sectoral, multisectoral and professional activities of trade and services to Catalonia, therefore, almost 600,000_euros. To the Digital Transformation Programme, 1.152,000 euros. And to the implementation program of new trades and commercial improvement of the establishments, also 1_million_i_mig. Therefore, in parallel with these policies, with these concrete economic activities, there is a series of activities that we do. First, he pointed out that there has been this transformation of the economic models linked to trade. What have we done? Therefore, we are promoting the study of our trading models; improving the competitiveness of some areas, also linked to the sector, such as municipal markets; also putting sectoral tables on the market – in concrete terms, to set examples of two sectors, such as the flora and plant sector and the electrodomestic and mobile sector – and also training through associations of traders. We also need to make the sector more prestigious. That's why we continue with the National Trade Initiative Awards, the Centennial Trade Map and the Trade Week, of which you did, with activities in the territories and newspapers..., we named them Incredible Trade Days. We are accompanying – and I will now refer to this – this digital transformation of trade, and we are also clear that trade must be at the centre of city plans. In this sense, eCommerce and mobility studies, the impulse, also, to digital commerce, and what it does to the professionalization of the associated world and to the promotion of internationalization. What actions do we or are we promoting in order to adapt these reps, these new technologies to their integration into the strategies of trade? So we are also clear that the physical trade until now – it is said – will not be able to compete with electronic trade. In change, we understand that we need to have tools so that it can be possible. In this sense, there is a whole series of work dedicated to improving the shopping experience of users; also the advantages offered by the Omnicanal must be compensated with all the sensitisation that has to be established in the trade sector. And we need to make it clear that the physical botiga not only becomes an element of bond with the consumer, but we also need to establish alliances with other distributors, such as Amazon, Alibaba or Zalando, at the time of collecting girl orders for the internet. We also anticipate that artificial intelligence will revolutionize much of what the retail market is in the next few years; artificial intelligence applied also to predict consumption patterns will transform it. What margin do we have to act at the legislative level? The standard mark that we have is regulated by this state legislation, Law 34/2002, but there is also a series of actions that with Law 18/2017 we realize from the advice; in this sense, both to companies, encouraging that it is the points of collection of the stores, as well as to the joints, because we understand and understand that these consumption habits, this new model of purchase, affect much and very much mobility. Donors some data: the year 2018 there were more than 53 million online purchases in Catalonia; 77_percent of these purchases are in demand at home, and only 15,1_percent of the purchases so far are in demand at commercial establishments. Therefore, we shall have to reverse this trend. And of these 39_million displacements, 6_million correspond to second visits, because in a first delivery, therefore, the buyer was not home. Therefore, we see how we are working and we will have to work a lot on this aspect of mobility together with the gatherings. For what it does to digitalization activities, the gods before more than 1.152,000 euros have been allocated, not only from Agenda 2021, but also from Trade Week. We're making ICT self-diagnosis. The Trade, Crafts and Fashion Consortium has a self-diagnosis tool for businesses to know their degree of digitalization. And also to point out that this year 2018 was more than three thousand self-diagnosis. He was commenting on one aspect that's very and very important, that's the top blanket. The blanket top is, well, a fact that we'll have to be brave and approach across the board. Greuges' own syndicate yesterday in fact said that this is a phenomenon that is not a question of immigration; he asks us to remove this link of concepts, and if we match the top of the blanket with immigration, we are before the exits are lost. It is also called for courageous actions, you decide to focus on this problem. And in this sense I very much regret the statements that Mayor Colau is making from the Barcelona Assembly, the chips of the damunt, focusing the problem, therefore, on the government. This is a question that affects economic and social aspects, and that we understand that we will not solve in any way that is not with the establishment of a protocol, an action protocol where different administrations and different policies must have been involved, and each one with its degree of involvement. It is in this sense that, defuguent demagogies, defuguent these easy situations, we must give out. Not only because they are violating rights such as intellectual and industrial property and because there is a very direct tax evasion, but also because they are affecting people who are left in the hands of groups that obviously exploit this fact. Therefore, the proposal, the Government of the Generality's bet, is to work with a consensus protocol: all administrations must be involved, absolutely all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. I don't know if they want to do the line... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't they plan to do the reply? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] [[Question to the Government about the Government's visit to Catalan participation in colonialism and slavery]] [[300-00110/12]] Therefore, we would move to the next item on the agenda, which is tretzè, the question to the Government about the Government's visit to Catalan participation in colonialism and slavery, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. And to expose the inquiry has now the word of Congressman Ferran Civit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.52.0	Good morning. Thank you, Vice President. Counsellor, MPs, MPs... « I am the black man of tropical Africa. I suppose they remember, don't they? , of this famous slogan. Many of us no longer lived it, as a young man, but it is part of the historical memory of this country. But, of course, that's it. And I felt once in my family, now some twenty years ago: "The blame for Guatemala's problems lies with the Indians. My father's family is from Guatemala, and that's what I heard. And this means that imperialism, colonialism, which seemed to be a historical era past, is, unfortunately, well-lived and well present among us. Because this is supremacism of the good, to consider that there are inferior, superior, and that this justifies after colonialism, imperialism or slavery and – not to say – not to consider that these people or their descendants are 'lshagi to ask forgiveness, and that is supremacism. We are certainly not responsible for colonialism or for the slavery of the past, but we are responsible for a repugnant heritage. And a full democracy must assume its mistakes, but so must the ones that it has rejected, and in this case there is the whole subject of colonialism. Mexico's president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, knows that a few weeks ago he issued a statement in a public act that, as other presidents of ancient colonies have done, demanded that the metropolis apologize for everything that happened. So, certainly, the one he expressed was not a whim; it was a necessity to close the wounds of the past. And to assume what has been done is not at the moment a shame or a betrayal, despite the fact that some illustrious butlers say it, because they cannot assume the successes without assuming the failures, because it cannot be that we speak of very laudable epic gestures – with which the Portuguese Magalhães and the Basque Elcano surrounded the world – but that we do not assume, from the same coin, therefore, the commissions, the exploitation of the Potosí mines, forced evangelisation and many other things. Because the conquest of America was this: neither a pact, nor an agreement, nor an agreement, nor a dialect; it was a conquest, it was a process of the least kind, even though today it is considered as the first globalization. The Spanish State has not assumed its colonial, imperial or slave past. It's a long way to go, certainly, but it's not sad to say that it hasn't taken its past more recently, considering that more than a hundred and a thousand people are still in the mainstream that are about to be recovered, and, logically, we have a dictator – who, unfortunately, seems to be well-lived – in the Valley of the Fallen and who doesn't want to get out of there. We won't talk about historical memory recently because it doesn't play today, but we do want to talk about historical repair, we do want to talk about the part that competes with us as Catalans. A decree of Carles III of 1778 finally allowed the kingdoms of other places that were not the Crown of Castella to intervene in American colonies. Until 1778 there was the heritage of the Kingdom of Castella, both colonization and the theme of commerce. From then on, the Catalans – the Catalan ports and the Catalan entrepreneurs – set themselves up on a good basis. And "on the basis of goodness I mean as well in a positive way as in a negative way, because, certainly, we did not participate in the exterminations or the indigenous genocide of the sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, but we went through the big door: we participated in colonialism through the slave trade, and this is a shame of a country – it is a shame of a country. Because if even the whole Spanish State apologized to the Sephardic Jews who were expelled in the 15th century and it gave even the whole Spanish nationality to their hereus – in 2015, with the government of Mariano Rajoy – we must do so, too. We have to apologize for our most embarrassing part, which was the slave trade. I don't know if they remember Steven Spielberg's Amistat film, which was released a few twenty-two years ago, twenty-three years ago. He spoke of a black vessel, of a black vessel in which he participated, after he had considered himself illegal, the slave trade of the Atlantic. That ship was commanded by an escaped captain, Ramon Ferrer, and there was a riot in 1839. From here it is shown that here speaking Catalan or not speaking Catalan did not mean the exemption from being a slaver or a blacker, and the Friend was not a good example. Some of the fortunes of the industrial revolution – some, not all of them – do have a slave past. We have the industrial revolution in Catalonia, which has always been said that it was done without coal, without ace and without ace; but it was done an industrial revolution, in this country, with blood and sweat of slaves. Because a lot of this blood and this sweat, which came out of Africa and which went to countries like Cuba..., the benefits of the sugary ingenuities have been reversed in part in the industrialisation of Catalonia, and the sweat of slavery also stifles the origin of our revolution. Surnames with Vidal-Quadras, Lopez, Goytisolo, Samà, Xifré, Güell, Mas, Torrents, Bru, Rovirosa, Viada or Barba have a black past. I suppose you all know the fact that the statue of Antonio López was recently removed, a well-known black man, well around here, but I also suppose you know that some pigs that are very close to here, the ports of Xifré and the porxos of Vidal-Quadras, also have their origin in the background of slavery. Also Palau Savassona, today his from the Atheneu Barcelones, also has some fonaments based on slavery in greater or lesser measure, not for the Atheneus, eh? , but for what he's going to do. And, of course, this is not just Barcelona's heritage, obviously. Vidal Ribas, a famous black man, has a street dedicated to Sant Feliu de Llobregat, his hometown, but also to Esplugues de Llobregat. In the barrio of Sarria we have a Vidal and Quadras street. In Vilanova and Geltrú we have a central branch bearing the name Salvador Samà. In Vilasar de Mar we have one of the gigants of the feasts that is said Pere Mas Roig, the Pigat, famous black captain – sailor, but black. Josep Maria Fradera, a historian, drew up a list of all the black captains in Catalonia in 1984, and we are talking about one hundred and fifty names– one hundred and fifty names. And many of them participated when the slave trade was already considered illegal – in the Spanish State, but not all the world, yes, in the world of metropolises. Between 1807 and 1867 it went from 24_per_cent, the black ships, to 74_per_cent– from 24 to 74. This is a shameful enterprise like the country. About 700,000 people were ported from Africa to the colonies – 700,000 people – in this lapse of time, 40 percent of all that had been carried by Spanish ships since 1501. 40_per_cent, in this lapse of time; what a great Catalan merit and reason to be proud of... The Catalans have not taken up our history, we have not taken on our share of the subject of slavery, colonialism, imperialism, Equatorial Guinea or America – the whole continent of America – or other places. It's our part as a society. If we want to be a society free of harm, free of inheritances from which we do not want to take the part that surrounds us, but we do want to repair the weights in the greatest measure possible, it is what we have to do. Because an uncomplicated society has to look at the Mirall, like it or not like what you see, and this Mirall is not solved by starting it or breaking it; it is looking and changing the one that touches. That's why it's very important that we, if we were involved in slavery, say it and condemn it. It is very important that we make gestures to change everything that our forefathers did and from which we are completely ashamed. And we also invite the rest of the colonial countries to do the same self-criticism process: we break the silence to self-criticize. Counselor, we can't change the story, but we can do it. I don't know if we're going to fix anything, but I do think it's very important that a full society, or at least what it expects to be, in the 21st century do these gestures all at once. We have a moral duty to those who suffered. A lot of things we can't fix today, certainly, but it's up to us to do it. We do not follow the last of the Philippines to recognize the mistake of colonialism, slavery and imperialism. The Catalans, like many other peoples of the world, participated, and our duty in an evolved Western society is to assume its responsibilities. Never more« I am the black man of tropical Africa and « All the problems of Guatemala are the fault of the Indians. Therefore, our responsibility is to assume the heritage, but above all to improve the projection of the future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.53.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. To give an answer to the inquiry, counsel Alfred Bosch has the word, for a period of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.54.0	Good morning, everybody. MPs, MPs, President, Bureau..., MP Civit, I must say first, before anything else, that congratulations on this initiative. It's about time. I believe that the answer, both personal and personal, which I say to you, like the Government of Catalonia, can only be a favourable answer, in favour of the inquiry, for various reasons. First, because the colonial genocide and the American conquest and all that was going on is true, historically it's true. So it would be absurd if we came in here... yes, it is. And consult with any of the solvent historians, who would explain to them not only that this happened, but also the magnitude – that every time it is known better – of which it happened. And, therefore, we cannot deny that in one hundred and fifty years the indigenous population of the Americas goes from 60 million people to 6 million people. That's to say, it affects..., « it affects, no, let's make it clear: it eliminates 90_percent of the Native American population. The magnitude is incomparable to any other process of conquest or occupation. Surely, in this case, we are talking about the hardest we can talk about in the history of humanity. And we're talking about people; people with us, people they loved, people they looked like, people they lived, they worked. And so, we don't stay in the woods, we also go to see, so, as these people, collectively, disappeared from the face of the earth. Their cultures disappeared, their way of making, their way of creating, their way of building. Above all, apart from the massacres that were produced, which were many, many names, here we also have to include the introduction of epidemics – which were not combated, but all the contrary: they were used in favor of conquest and occupation – and of fame – resulting, to a large extent, from the bilateral conflicts also connected with occupation and also connected with colonization. We're talking, more than that, about massive cultural destruction. Senseful tongues disappeared. Traditions disappeared. They disappeared documents, documents made with writing, with the pictographic system of many of these cultures, which simply disappeared and which, moreover, now prevent us from recognizing the richness, plurality, creativity of all these societies. Some things were preserved, but in general all this was destroyed, and it was destroyed with the connivance, therefore, of those who at that time also maintained the cultural hegemony of the occupation, to the extent connected to the imperial power of that time and to Catholic Church – their hierarchies, at that time. So, here we have... look, to quote it... it's an example that's very graphic, too: the city of Mexico, 1520, huh? What Tenochtitlan said at that time was a city with about 200,000 inhabitants living on a lake, moving with boats, basically, from one band to another, and having a trade, an intercanvi, and was also like a cultural centre. With all the injustices that any – any – great city, logically – has there too – but in any case it was, therefore, a city that basically disappeared. And on top of this, also very graphically, there was a completely different city, a city on top of the pyramids built cathedrals, and there were plans to gather for it to celebrate all the close ceremonies of those indigenous cultures, so there were going to be military parades, religious ceremonies, etc. Therefore, here is the total disappearance of a world: of people, but of these people who live in a determined cultural universe. And all this, the result of the occupation and the plunder, just disappeared. To the world of all this, we also find three centuries of slave traffic, transport – which has also been mentioned – and in the last moment there were Catalan highlights. Therefore, here, therefore, something we also have to say, because we also affected some populations of the Americas and the continent of Africa, which was very touched by this repeated experience in many centuries. We are talking about the possibly more deadly process that has occurred in the history of humanity, and therefore we cannot ignore it, we have to recognize it. And if there are any responsibilities or implications of the past, of our pasts, then logically that's what we'd have to say too. We can't change the past, it's obvious, but we can know it better, every day better. And, above all, we can recognize him. Others said: France apologized for the colonization process; Germany apologized for the Second World War and the holocaust that took place in parallel; the United Kingdom also apologized to African countries – Kenya and other countries – for its colonial actions; Holland apologized for the executions in Indonesia in the colonial period... Therefore, here there is not only the obligation to know and to recognize; there is also a political obligation, ethical, to say that we do not want to go any further. And, therefore, we speak against it; in the measure that this implies and refers to us, we speak against it. Therefore, I listened, on behalf of my own person, obviously – as you know – but also on behalf of the Government of Catalonia, no problem in assuming those responsibilities which in our nearness derives from history and in condemning certain facts which are clearly reprehensible. It would encourage this Parliament to continue to debate, stop this inquiry, and also in the subsequent motion, so that this chamber adopts the decisions that democratically are considered appropriate in these historical facts. To encourage this Parliament to urge the Government of Catalonia to speak, because we believe that it would be healthy and that it would be ethical to do so. And at the same time, if I may, also share with American peoples and with the American countries impacted by this historic process... who also know what our position is. This is why I would like to introduce here a few words in castles to..., the indigenous peoples of the Americas, to the countries of the American continent, and in particular also to a person who has requested it, the President of the United States of Mexico, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, to go ahead – go ahead – our condemnation of the abuses committed against the peoples and peoples originating in America and the Americas, because we must condemn and deplore the death of millions of people and the disappearance of entire cultures. No more barbarism, no more domination, no more atrocity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.55.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the financing needed to strengthen the welfare state]] [[302-00081/12]] There is no reply; therefore, let us turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the financing needed to strengthen the welfare state, presented by the Parliamentary Group Republic. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I don't think there is, the deputy who has to defend the initiative... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah. Therefore, Mr. Maragall, you have the word to expose the young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.56.0	Well, good morning. Good morning, President; good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Five minutes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.57.0	Five, Mr. Congressman; five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.58.0	Five? All right. Well, today we present this young man, who is derived from the question that we saw in the last plenary, and it is a young man that we could say that it is the formal, very synthetic and very concentrated formation, from which the economic policy of the Government has followed and, in particular, from the departments of Economy directed by officials of the Republican Left of Catalonia. A massive economic policy for an abandoned country for those who fill their mouths in defense of equality, but who always end up prioritizing electoral interests. And I believe that the way Vice-President Junqueras and Vice-President Aragones are acting speaks to us exactly of the counter-activities: of the obsession to guarantee the financing necessary to build the welfare state, which must give response to the needs of the citizens of Catalonia. We cannot, therefore, disregard a certain context of globalisation, this context which affects the states of the welfare of the Mediterranean arc, of the countries of southern Europe in particular. But it is a very different context from the one in which the first construction, the first great construction of the welfare state, developed in France in the thirty glorious years after World War II, took place, when the democratic Europe had a continuous economic growth that allowed the foundations of this capacity to build the welfare state. At that time – let's remember – we had a Faixist dictatorship the institutional arrival of which we are living today, too. We built that welfare state during the eighties in an absolutely unfavorable context for fiscal consolidation, which is the least that requires a welfare state ambition. It should be remembered: now, the year has passed, while the receipts from taxes from countries such as Denmark or Sweden continue to turn around 45_per_cent, to countries such as Portugal or Spain are not far, very far: to Portugal, a 34.7_per_cent; to the Spanish State, in its conjunction, they are only 33.7_per_cent. And we still have to listen to how the great Spanish employer continues to claim tax reductions in global terms. With this fiscal capacity, if we apply it in the case of an administration such as the Generalitat de Catalunya, which is responsible for the actual expenditure of all the great concepts of the welfare state – education, health and social services – we see that the Generalitat has 13_percent of GDP, that is to say, four times under those countries that are the paradigm of what it means to be the welfare state. The Department of Economics, headed by Esquerra Republicana, has been very ambitious in time to move forward in terms of defining and building a greener, more progressive taxation that guarantees this funding, or that it intends to put all its capabilities there, right? But I think that this object now deserves not only to be concrete, but also to be shared. And it is in this sense that we make an appeal to the groups of this chamber, especially to the groups that are said to be progressive, in other words, to abandon electoralism or all the follow-up of other parliamentary dynamics, which is always possible, but not recommensurable, and that we ensure, that we share, that we work together in time to define what financing of the welfare state means as an absolute shared objective. We are, therefore, in this proposal for a debate on the assumptions of the Generality, this necessary and possible debate that we continue to offer, which is still on the table, which seeks to recover very much, in real terms, the education that we had in the year 2010. And we must try, therefore, to recover concepts such as the financing of schools in Bressol or the development of this figure of wage scholarships, or the reinforcement of guaranteed income. We are aware that building the welfare state that deserves Catalonia's citizenship cannot be done with a state against it. The obligations of spending on Spain are decentralised, but not the responsibilities over the appropriate resources, so that we are in the worst position to get ahead of this policy, this will, this constructive strategy. And that's why we also ask the State to facilitate our data to know where we are, to know what happens with our fiscal balances – we don't have the data –; we ask that the basic criteria of institutional responsibility are met with the advance of the financial beasts, that they are not coming when they are to do it, and this is an attack, a direct attack on our ability to manage directly as the administration of Catalonia, and we ask that the commitments that have been made by the central government on the ground are fulfilled only a few months ago, so much of the infrastructure expenditure associated with the State of Autonomy as on the subject...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.59.0	You're out of your mind, Mr. Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.60.0	...of the financing of the Squadron Mosses. And that's all I told this young man. And I hope that also, in the measure that we have given some transactions to the papers presented...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.61.0	You're out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.62.0	.....can actually vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.63.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. [[Some applause.]] Next, it's the return to defend the papers presented. And in the first place is the deputy Alicia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.64.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, counselors, vice president. Well, in this Republican Left's motion about the financing needed to strengthen the welfare state..., it means that a government's obligation is to govern, and it means that what it has to do is to work to get the maximum resources, the maximum funding to deal with the challenges and problems the country has. And you have different lives to do it, whenever you're proactive, obviously, that's what a government should do: be proactive, move forward. And so, as I say, there are various possibilities: through a presupposition – then I will talk about it – through which self-government enables it, which is the modification of taxation and some tax reform to get more resources, or the system of autonomous financing. It's three ways the government has to get more tickets, and so it can face this welfare state. On the system of autonomous financing, to start and follow a little the pattern of the movement, miri, I will say: 2014 played a new system of financing, the revision of the system of financing. It is true that the People's Party did not have much interest in being modified and renewed, this autonomous financing system, but I also have to tell the Republican Left Group that the government you were part of did not have much interest in that was so. Moreover, the People's Party set up an expert group to study the current model of the financing system and the possibilities of the future and Catalonia did not send there any expert, they did not put in a name because there was a representative or like at least one person sorted for Catalonia because they formed part of this expert group. The study came out, the report came out; in some things we may agree, in others not, but in any case there was a starting document in which they did not participate. It can only be the Catalans, that Catalonia, that the Government of Catalonia deixi empty cadires. We have to be represented, Catalans, to say whether or not we like things, to influence, for what we've always done and what I think we've done well Catalans, which is to try to get more finance and more skills. And that's what we've been doing all these years of democracy. So look, in the next eight years the Government of the Generalitat has not managed to achieve better finance or more competition; therefore... It is true that the People's Party has not had any interest, but neither have you. And, therefore, in these later eight years – now I will talk about the new months of the government presided over by Pedro Sánchez –, the better in finance and the better in competitions, while some other autonomous communities have made it. Therefore, I believe that here we must ask the Government to do its work, to represent the Catalans, to defend Catalonia's interests where it touches, where there is a chair, where it is known. That is why we are making a point, in this sense, that we have dealt with the Republican Left Group, and I appreciate it, because we are committed to doing the work that surrounds us and going to defend our interests. But I said..., one is the model of autonomous financing; the other is the assumption. The premise is the resource, the most important law that approves a parliament and in which the government says where money goes – to make it easy and understanding – where I generate it, and where spending it. So, listen, you haven't approved the Generality's presupposition for 2019 yet. We had a point that he said: "To the proper council, on Tuesdays, on the 9th, I gave this premise of which they speak so much. Approve it. If it's so good, if they like it so much, if they think it'll solve so many problems, why don't they approve of it at the execution board? The register in Parliament, as has been the case all your life since democracy, and then negotiate with parliamentary groups. It's just that Mr. Junqueras did it that way. It was brave, at that time: he presented the premise, approved it, presented it in Parliament, registered it and started negotiations with the groups. It didn't go well, it didn't go well in 2016. Well, at least he believed that assumption he had put forward. Besides, Mr. Aragones, you were part of your team. He approved it, registered it in Parliament and started the process. I don't understand why you don't do this job, don't get along. Honestly, having a working assumption, we don't understand how you don't approve. We asked him in a letter, they didn't accept us. Well, I guess it's that you want to do things backwards from what you've always done, that you're first trying to negotiate and when you've already connected to bring it here. But it's that what a government has to do is approve its premise and then register it in Parliament because it starts the process of the law. It's always been like this. There's a lot of laws coming into Parliament without agreement, huh? Miri, I'm going to tell you now that they also depend on your department: the contract law and you serve people. It's in processing, the pose is working, and, as far as I'm concerned, nobody's bought anything; it's the most normal. So why don't they approve of the premise, the present, and how at least you've done your job and responsable for your obligations as a government? So neither. Miri, the third way – why do you talk about more tickets, more resources, to face the challenge, right? , which has the welfare state– is the State. And I will say to him: obviously there has been an incredible change since Pedro Sánchez came to the presidency of the Government of the State: bilateral commissions have been set up; in the Joint Committee on Economic Affairs we have reached agreements to pay part of the debt of the Mossos and also the additional third. But I'll tell you one thing: if there's no general assumption of the state approved, it's because, among other things, Republican Left presented an issue to the totality. Because now they say: "No, let the State over all those commitments complete them. So there's no presupposition, huh? There's no presupposition. There will be some elections on April 28 because, among other things, you presented a statement to the totality. Therefore, they require a lot and you give very little. And so we'll see what happens on April 28. So much so that we have the opportunity to present those assumptions and approve them because they can be paid for these Mossos debts, the additional third provision and so many things that we believe are right for Catalonia and that obviously need to be improved for what it does to its autonomous financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.65.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, and has the word deputy Antonio Espinosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.66.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, advisors, deputies, very good morning to everyone. This motion on financing and fiscal deficit shows, like any product that comes out of the factory of Esquerra and independence, the insolidity and selfishness that permeate the independence political parties. It shows that separatists do not want to improve the equity of the financing system. It is their selfishness and insolidity that enable them to aim for a more equitable and fair financing model for the Spanish as a whole and also, logically, for the Catalans. Moreover, the independenceists want borders to reduce the perimeter of solidarity and distributive justice, and they intend, with this new border, to exclude the rest of the Spaniards. "They are there with their education, their health, or their dependence, they say, and think. Well, in front of them, in front of the secessionists, Citizens want to guarantee an area of equality, solidarity and freedom for all Spaniards. We want to ensure that all Spaniards have access to the public services that run the autonomous communities, and we want to do so on an equal basis, regardless of the place of residence. And that is why we propose a funding system that equals the per capita funding of all the autonomous communities. And, of course, this new funding system we are going to defend within the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and wherever necessary, unlike the discharge of functions that the Government of the Generalitat does in this and in many others. On the other hand, Members of Parliament, what you call 'the fiscal deficit of an autonomous community' is the logical result of having a progressive tax system, for which economically more prosperous citizens pay more. That Catalonia, Madrid or another autonomous community collect more as a result of having more residents with higher incomes, and that logically pay more taxes, is absolutely logical and normal. At the same time, it is reasonable for communities to receive in proportion to their population. We don't just say this from Citizens. Former advisor Mas-Colell has repeated this on several occasions; the last, in February 2018, at the London School. He said exactly: "Catalogue approximately pays taxes in proportion to its contribution to GDP and receives in proportion to its population. The same Mas-Colell, in an interview published in the newspaper Ara, stated that "in a hypothetical secession, with the taxes we pay we can cover the cost of all public services and there would be a small surplus. You've heard well, deputies. It says Mas-Colell, not us. Nor, as a matter of fact, are the 16,000_millions that proclaim independence. The lie, falsehood and deception that involves talking about a fiscal deficit of 16,000_million aims to build a portrait of a Spain that mistreats and suffocates Catalonia economically. It doesn't matter that talking about prosecutorial expoliation creates bad blood, as Ernest Lluch himself wrote in La Vanguardia a few years ago. For secessionism everything goes to break and cut Spain, and in its strategy it is essential to lie and deceive about the fiscal deficit. Look, with their continuous crying and victimism they also intend to cover up their mismanagement, which has turned Catalonia into Spain's champion in public debt, waiting lists in health and dependency, and also to have some barracks for schools. It is the mismanagement of the Government of the Generalitat, which is leading to a less efficient administration and public sector. The Government of the Generalitat is responsible for ensuring that Catalans have a state of welfare of less quality than citizens of other autonomous communities, and that is what they always want to cover up with a victimistic discourse on fiscal balances, fiscal deficits, poor financing... No; what you have above all is mismanagement. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word Lord David Cid, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.68.0	Okay. The debate about assumptions, admissions, and I would also say taxation is a recurring debate in this chamber. I will not be the one who denies that Catalonia has insufficient funding; we have always defended it. It might also be good to remember that the current financing system agreed in this case also Republican Left, and I'm sure that Mr. Maragall knows it well, because at that time he was advisor to the Government of the Generality, it is certain that for another party, but in any case, he was advisor to the Generality. And I agree, don't I? In this case there is a deficit in the financing for Catalonia, but it also makes me feel that you are oblivious to certain things, or that you do not want to remember them, because it is obvious that today the one that limits enormously in this case the creation of a presumption of the Generality is the rule of expense and also the objectives of deficit, that you seem not to want to talk about it, in short, also, I suppose that in order not to bother the members of the government... But I think it is essential to change the rule of expenditure in this case to the level of the State, and also the objectives of deficit. And then, too, if it's about the funding system's deficiency, I'm willing to negotiate a new funding system. Because, of course, we've made it a point that what you say is that you're willing to negotiate a new funding system with the State. In this case we can claim a personal and solidary legacy, which I believe is something that we could agree with from the Republican Left, in this case also from Catalonia in Comú We can and even from the Socialist Party – I would like to remind you that Mr.Iceta also promised it in the campaign. And, finally, there's a fourth element that has to do with priorities. Look, there are other autonomous communities, such as the Valencian and Balearic Islands, that have a financing system I would say even more inadequate than that of Catalonia and that they have some other priorities at the social level. For example, the assumptions of the year 2017, which you said were the most social assumptions of history, so it turns out that they are the assumptions with the least social reversal per inhabitant of the entire State. And there are other autonomous communities, such as in this case Balears or the Valencia Country, which are very much above in social investment per inhabitant. And I take a picture of it: look, you are the autonomous community that less social investment per inhabitant ago, and on the other hand we have the Barcelona Assembly, which is the State Assembly than more social investment per inhabitant ago. This is the comparison we find ourselves in. And I say: Valencia, a community that has a clearly insufficient funding system – I think they should agree – is the third community with fewer patients on the waiting list on health lists. Or, for example, it is an autonomous community that has reduced the waiting lists to depend on 23,000 people. I suppose that Mrs Mònica Oltra or, in this case, also Mrs Colau is dedicated to "small politics, which is a phrase that you... made fortune. While you are engaged in high-level politics, we are engaged in far-reaching, road policy, and in any case you can't stand the comparison between your government and your government in social failure with other governments that have social priorities, such as the Valencia Country or the Barcelona City Council. And then I too... In many things we would agree, but – I'm sorry – yes, its responsibility is to present some assumptions in this chamber and that we can debate them and that we can discuss them and that we can discuss them. So, these subterfuges about continuing to work on assumptions we don't have, huh? , which we have not yet registered in this chamber... I also told one day, with confidence, in this case, to the same Vice President and Councillor of Economy: we are already working on the assumptions of 2020, because at the rate that they might have been able to reach some agreement by 2020. And I end up with two thoughts. Clearly, you – and we share this – are demanding the updating of the financial model's beasts – we are fully in agreement – or paying the debt commitments to the State, in this case with the additional third provision, and also the financing of the Squad Moissos. But, well, it's that we have assumptions, in this case, of the State, which, also the result of the negotiation made by the Economics Councilor, includes 350_millions that respond in this case to these parties, not all, but a part of the return of the debt, and that you decided to fall also from the hands of the PP and Citizens. Therefore, in the end it is demonstrated – that this is what we said – that they were making decisions that were against trying to build real social assumptions in Catalonia. And, therefore, it is not only possible to talk about a financing deficit, but it is also possible to talk about a policy deficit in this case, which is what you are doing in Catalonia blocking..., with a government of Torra-Aragones that does not govern and that is more of a social failure. And then I want to end with another reflection on the last point, where we have reached an agreement. The proof of the quota on the tax reform will be passed or stopped in this Parliament when we have the debate on the laws that we have presented in taxation, in IRPF, in successions and in this case also in documented legal acts. We'll see the debate, see if there's anything on the table, and we'll see in this case, too, if you're really willing to get more tickets to make some social assumptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.69.0	Thank you, Mr. Cid. Next, to fix his position, has the word in the first place the deputy Carles Riera, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.70.0	Thank you, President. Well, from our point of view, we are in front of a young man who does not know whether to say 'post-independence or 'pre-independence'. We have the feeling that he's pre-independence. We have moved from the "fish to the pit of pujolism" to the "fish to the pit of the Republican Left Government and the "socio-vergency", seems to be; the construction of pacts and alliances between the Republican Left and the Socialist Party. All folded, obviously, pulling us away from any self-determinationist settlement. Then, a lollipop, a lollipop in his young lady. Now they tell us that the cause of inequality and the poor is the fiscal deficit. Listen, this can help to make it difficult to finance, from the point of view of Catalonia, but that there is poverty or inequality has other causes and other reasons. That is why I know that capitalism, unequal distribution of wealth, a system of ownership, in which the Catalan elites are absolutely involved, and that the parties that are in the government are not planted in a complete sense, which we know, eh? So don't mess things up. Is it really about beasts or is it about economic sovereignty? Is it a question of asking almoine or is it a question of making assumptions based on a principle of sovereignty that does not comply with Article 135 of the Constitution, which obliged us to prioritise the return of debt over social needs? Is it an attempt to disobey Spanish tax rules – absolutely antisocial – the topall of the deficit? It seems like no, it's about beasts... soft, wreaths, reforms and alms. Look, we're not looking for the generosity of the State and the 78th Regime. We are seeking to break with the social and economic system of the 78th Regime, with its political organization and with its economic organization, in order, effectively, to establish a republic of social, civil, political and economic rights for everyone. It gives us the feeling that with this young man we may open a new political cycle, and it's the Republican Left bet for reformism. A new cycle that the one that is actually looking for isn't the breakup, but fits it. You'll tell me where you left October 1st and your electoral commitments. You maintain the thesis of "retaining autonomy and pact with Madrid, which is a thesis that has proved to be absolutely unsuccessful and that has not gone away. We won't cooperate. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.71.0	Thank you. Next is the return of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.72.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies, the first formal discrepancy in relation to the motion: they talk about the financing of the welfare state; we prefer to talk about the financing of the welfare society, which is a much broader concept than just that of the state. Then, let's get into the typical topics. First – classic, some other Member has already referred to –: the cause of all the evils of Catalonia and Catalans is the fiscal deficit of Catalonia. So I also deny the major. It has been said many other times and many years ago, in this very faristol, that Catalonia has no fiscal deficit. Basically because territories don't pay taxes; taxes pay people, and therefore Catalonia, like territories, can't have a fiscal deficit. We share with you that Catalans are the Spaniards who pay the most taxes. Yes, it is true, by the decision of this Parliament, basically, of the majority, that they are the ones who present this young man to us today. Escort, understand me, huh? I find it impractical to hear the honourable Member Maragall go out to the Faristol to criticize the financing model. It's the financing model that his government agreed with the PSOE government... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, when you had not yet converted to independence, and, if you have done so, too, because the Republican Left was also in that government, you agreed with the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol. But I have to recognize one thing: that when the Republican Left and the Socialist Party sit on a table, they always come to terms to blame all the evils that pass them to the People's Party. Now it turns out that if there's no funding model, it's the People's Party's fault. And what has Mr. Pedro Sánchez done these last few months? If they were in such a hurry, they could have arranged it. Home, in fact, Mr. Pedro Sánchez was president thanks to Mr. Cid's party, thanks to Mr. Maragall's party. You should have agreed on the funding model. What did Mr. Pedro Sánchez do? Absolutely nothing. Oh, yes! : "We meet in Pedralbes and talk. "From what? Did they put the finance model on the table? « No. « What did they put there? « Self-determination. Finance... as this affects all Catalans, it does not interest us; what interests us is what interests us, which is self-determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.73.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Finally, it is the return of Deputy Ferran Roquer, for the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.74.0	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I had a prepared intervention, but I see I won't have to do another one to prove to Mr Espinosa that the Catalans aren't insolidari. From this faristol, there are many parliamentary groups who claim better in some of the Generalitat's services, huh? And they set up hypotheses about why the government of the generality doesn't lend them. They say: « The opportunity cost of public television... There are 20_million public television that would have been used to pay the half of the budget of the Government of Catalonia. They say: "The policy of action, of promoting companies abroad..., this paid for the other half of the presupposition. Others say: "No, you, as such are of such ideology, do not do this, because you do not believe it. Well, I don't think so. I think that no hypothesis goes into the background of the question. The foundation of the issue is the continued – continued – infra-financing, Mr Espinosa, which is suffering Catalonia. The Vice-President's Department published the fiscal balance sheets for the years 2012, 13 and 14. According to 14, Catalonia contributes 18,9_percent of State tickets. The State spent in Catalonia, Mr Espinosa, 13.3_per_cent. If we bring in the tickets and the expenses of social security, which belong to the citizen they have contributed, which brings total State spending to Catalonia is 8.3. You must understand that with this gap, it is difficult to make policies. And what does that mean, this difference in entrances and expenses? Look, if we take the criteria that in admissions and expenses we only count the achievements in the territory where they see its beneficiaries, the criteria of the monetary flow, Mr Espinosa..., 16,570_million euros, an 8,4_percent of GDP. But you can discuss it, that. They may say: "No. No, Congressman Roquer. The campaign, Spain Global, contributes to its well-being, the Royal House contributes to its well-being, interviews made by Mr. Borrell contribute to its well-being, the Constitutional Court contributes to its well-being, the Supreme Court contributes to its well-being, the Police who talk to dissidents in Venice to see if any Spanish political leader contributes to its well-being... I buy it, I buy it. What happens if I buy this? That all these expenses benefit us summarily, that the fiscal deficit is 11,590_millions, 5.9_percent of Catalonia's GDP. And you can tell me: "You, who are an independentist, tell us this because you want to promote your thesis. So miri, no. The Ministry of Finance and Public Service commissioned Mr Ángel de la Fuente to read a study on fiscal balances, and Mr De la Fuente, an independent conspicu, did so. What's the result, Mr. Spiny? A fiscal deficit of EUR 9,892_million, 5.02_percent of GDP, EUR 1,317_per capita of Catalonia, which they vote for you, which they vote for us and which they vote for the CAPMA – each of the Catalans, all the Catalans. The other thing. He said they're misadministering. Let's see, we'll set a 100. Financing homogenous competitions of all autonomous communities that do not have an outside rule, we bring Ceuta and Melilla... Stay 100 and order them, by financing their services, from minor to major. Do you know where Catalunya is? To the third place per suba, per cua. And you know what you're saying, right? Congressman Roquer? Vice President Aragonès? No, he says so. [[the orator shows an image]] – poster – the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Public Service of the Government of Spain. Do you see where Catalonia is? See? Here. Black is finance, financing for homogeneous competitions, huh? , don't competition them that they don't have the other communities. Similarly, we could talk about the third additional provision or the financing system; I will not. Yes, I will announce that we will vote in favour of the totality of the motion, including the papers. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.75.0	Thank you, Mr. Roquer. Finally, to pronounce on the papers, the deputy of the proposing group, Ernest Maragall, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.76.0	Yes, thank you, President. Very quickly. PSC companies, well, you want us to follow them on their path to instability, the path you have taken to Madrid. We're delighted that we've been able to agree and trade some of the papers, huh? But don't ask us to play Russian roulette, say, that's what you did in Madrid, right? Look, the best example is what happened yesterday to the Congress of Deputies. Yesterday it was again produced the same majority that allowed Mr. Sánchez to be president of the government, around the decree of the habitation. This is the path that you have in front of you and that you have rejected, globally. Yesterday it re-produced a majority of the plural Spain, of the real Spain, huh? , which you have preferred, in short, to leave the band to surrender to the hands of your Ciutadans companions, who hold the front. At all times, I think we have a good way of working, with the items we've accepted and traded. The fiscal deficit, lords of Ciutadans, is perfectly measured: 16,000_millions for monetary flows and 9,000_millions for benefits. I'm looking at the Community of Madrid to highlight the weakness of the state concept of the autonomy of the last twenty years, huh? Mirin-ho, look-ho honestly, and you will see until we have had the current drift and the current model of state that defend PP, PSOE and yours in Madrid. Company Cid, also agree to add the thought that you propose to us on the subject of tax reform, but I ask you not to cheat on the concept of social investment per inhabitant comparing the Government of the Generality with the government of one or other joint venture, nor with that of Barcelona, because it is to compare pears and apples. The competition scheme and the obligations and responsibilities that we have with each other are quite clearly different, as you know perfectly well, because you make comparison possible. Mr. Riera...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.77.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.78.0	... our obligation is to defend to death the interest of our citizens today, to more of the country's objectives, which we can share, but we cannot renounce any of the elements that you seem to lack or consider as secondary battles. They're not secondary battles. The welfare of our citizens is the first for us and for this government at this time. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.79.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.80.0	To ask for separate votes: for one band, points 1 and 3a, and for the other, point 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.81.0	Yeah. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Spiny.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.82.0	Yeah. Mr. President, I'd like to ask for the word for contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.83.0	Okay. We do one thing: ask if there are separate votes, point them out, and then I give you the word. [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.84.0	Yeah. We'd need a separate vote on point 1, sun, and point 2, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.85.0	All right. Any more petitions? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Everything? Separated, Mr. Rodriguez? So we'll vote all the points separately. [[Pause.]] [[Antonio Espinosa Cerrato asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Spiny, thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.86.0	Thank you, President. I just want to reply to Mr Roquer, Mr Roquer, who, in our proposal specifically on autonomous financing, our proposal is to match by adjusted population, and therefore avoid these differences between autonomous communities. I hope someday you'll join this idea. And then you said, "Home, there's a tax deficit. So look, I think it's logical, and we think it's logical, that depending on the investment it's paid. So look, here's the logical correlation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.87.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.88.0	...between more inversion and more...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.89.0	...he's done 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.90.0	...and more recap. And here's the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.91.0	We're not reproducing the debate. Congressman, it's been 30 seconds. I think he's made himself clear, his position. [[Ferran Roquer and Padresa ask to speak.]] Mr. Roquer...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.92.0	President, I have donated the data that the Ministry has published...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.93.0	I'm asking for the word for...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.94.0	For allusions!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.95.0	Say it. [[Rialles.]] Thirty seconds, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.96.0	I try to get out here and speak rigorously. I have donated the data donated by the Ministry of Economy and History. Therefore, there is no contradiction with what he has expressed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.97.0	All right. [[Greetings. Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.98.0	When asking for separate votes, it wasn't just points, it was also...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.99.0	The subpoints too, huh? I've interpreted that. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. All right. So let's get to the vote. Vote each point and subpoint separately. Let's go vote on the first point. You don't score them 1 and 1 bis, huh? ; the first point of the motion. The vote begins. The first point of the motion was approved by 62 votes in favour, 40 against, 22 abstentions and 4 Members present who did not vote. Let's just move on to vote on the 1 bis point. The vote begins. Point 1a was approved by 120 votes to four, with no abstentions and four Members or Members present who did not vote. And now we're going to vote on 1 ter. The vote begins. Point 1b was approved by 124 votes to no, with no abstentions and four Members present who did not vote. And now we move to point number two. The vote begins. Point 2 was approved by 65 votes to 23, with 36 abstentions and four non-voting Members. And now we're going to vote number three. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm sorry, it's true, I had passed... vote... vote on the third and then vote on the third and the third. Therefore, we repeat the vote, because I did not actually say it was the third. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.100.0	If you prefer, we can vote on 3.b separately and subtract it together. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.101.0	No, no, So, we repeat the vote on the 3, which is true that I did not specify that it was the 3rd. So let's re-vote point 3a–3a. The vote begins. Point 3a was approved by 67 votes to 36, with 21 abstentions and 4 non-voting Members. We're voting now on point 3.b. The vote begins. Point 3.b was approved by 124 votes to no, with no abstentions and four Members present who did not vote. We're voting now on point 3.c. The vote begins. Point 3.c was approved by 84 votes to 40, with 4 Members not voting. And now we're going to vote on point 3.d. The vote begins. Point 3.d was approved by 84 votes in favour, against, 40 abstentions and 4 Members or Members present who had not voted. And, finally, we vote for the quarter point of the vote. The vote begins. The quarter point of the motion is approved by 124 votes in favour, against, abstentions and four Members or Members present who have not voted. And if we didn't leave it at all, we voted for the joint motion. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the theme of the World Day of Awareness on Autism]] [[401-00013/12]] So let's move to the next point of the order of the day. Before we do, however, we will read an institutional statement. Before reading the institutional declaration, let me especially greet Mrs. Neus Payerol Gràcia, president of the Catalan Autism Foundation, and people with autism, educators and family members who are accompanying us today. And I'll ask Secretary Joan García to read this statement about World Day of Awareness about Autism. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.102.0	« Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia with the motto of the World Day of Awareness on Autism. Autism and the combination of autistic spectrum disorders (ASDs) are some of the hardest neurodevelopmental disorders that affect little childhood. As main features present difficulties in three areas: communication, socialization and behavior. These difficulties have a great impact on the person affected, his family and his next. The impact on the affected person is maintained at the length of life, with difficult difficulties for their employment. While there is no universally accepted standard treatment for autism, and knowing that each child will have different characteristics and evolutions, the health professionals and those from the education camp agree that if the diagnosis is done as soon as possible and the intervention begins at the preschool stage, the results will be very positive throughout the lives of people with autism. For this reason, the deployment of the Full Service Platform to persons with disorders of the driver's spectrum throughout Catalonia must allow the establishment of an effective circuit of detection, evaluation, derivation and intervention of the available services, in addition to creating a common _marc of action that facilitates cohesion between the various services, the development of shared strategies based on integrated training and the transmission of knowledge between the professionals involved in the attendance of persons with disorders of the driver's spectrum and their families. Today, the Parliament of Catalonia, with the motto of the World Day of Awareness on Autism, wants to express its support to the people and families who suffer from this disease, recognize the effort of associations working in this field, who give services to children with autism and work for their rights, but who also consciously and sensitise the citizenry so that autism does not define the people who suffer. The Catalonian Parliament is committed to working for a more inclusive society, where everyone has a right to a decent life project and where all diversity is valued. Palau del Parlament, April 4, 2019. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.103.0	Allow me, before I go on, to say hello again – because when I did not attend the Chamber – Mrs. Neus Payerol Gràcia, president of the Catalan Autism Foundation, and people with autism, educators and family members who have accompanied us today. Welcome to the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into its inopportunity]] [[302-000080/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The next point of the House is the motion following the question to the Government about its inopportunity, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To introduce the young lady, has the word Mrs. Eva Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.104.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, yesterday we gave the arguments of this young man: we have a government that does not govern, does not respect the agreements of Parliament, has no majority and, moreover, has renounced to carry the assumptions. And that happens in Catalonia while other self-governments right now are improving people's lives, they're running and they know where they're going. There are autonomous governments that at these times are reducing waiting lists, reducing university fees, approving laws and assumptions, because it can be done, but you don't do it. Ever since you've been to the government, Catalans and Catalans are going back and forth. We haven't put many examples in the past – many examples – and can repeat them. Social entities have said that Catalonia continues to increase social inequality while you only hold one of your rights guaranteed – the land of dignity, to those who have nothing but one of your rights. They continue to increase the waiting lists since President Torra arrived, and health experts tell us that there is no political action in the Health Department and that the second presuppositional extension also hurts a lot. Twenty-and-a-thousand..., listen to me: 26,000 people with a severe dependency are waiting for something they have right and the government doesn't hold them. Catalonia is directly on the waiting list. Look, we could give a lot of examples, but today we're just reading an institutional statement, we're all wearing this black collar, and we need to remember that at these times we're in pre-school enrolment until April 9 until Tuesday. And, look, there was a time when Catalonia had a national pact for education, where there was a plan for inclusion, inclusive school, and also a year ago, and a decree was passed for inclusive school that required all children to have sufficient and necessary resources in their schooling so that everyone could be satisfied. Well, ladies and gentlemen, is there sensitivity? We've just listened to this institutional statement. Yes, there is, that sensibility. Is there any gain, that these kids with driver's trouble, or others, have these resources? There's a lot of gain, too. Is there any need? Yes, of course there are needs; we need vets, more teachers, more therapists, more training... But what's missing? We need a government that wants to do it, we need a government that can mobilize resources because they do it. At these times there are many families with a lot of uncertainty, a lot of anxiety, a lot of frustration, who don't know where to school their children, who don't know if the ordinary school will be able to give them the support they need. And that's because you don't deploy anything that's approved. How uncertain, how anxious... And what will happen to the children of these families? Shall we go to school? Do they have the resources to be able to be cherished as he plays? Talking to the masters, to the directions, to the professionals, to the parents, to the seas... This is an example of inopportunity. They have resigned from their responsibilities. With an effective government, this inclusive school decree would be operational. And it's inadmissible to let time pass, because children with special needs also need a government. And what does not understand and embarrass us, which is what happened yesterday in this Parliament, is the answer of the President of the Generality. He tells us: "They make a motion of censure. Did they hear each other? Have they stopped to think about the meaning of your words? The situation of the school, of the children, of the public health, of the infrastructures, of the fabric of the product, is the responsibility of the Government, is its responsibility. And if they don't know, they don't want to or they can't fix it, call elections and that the citizenry talked about. How can they come to repudiate the opposition, if they do not govern and have decided not to approve the assumptions? Why are you in the government? That's what we don't understand. A government must be useful to people. And you have forgotten the real Catalonia. They're extended day by day. Politics must transform reality and not overwhelm the realities that must be overcome. We're sick of symbols and gesticulation. And you, as much as you speak of legitimacy... which legitimacy has a government that doesn't approve of its assumptions? Who legitimately has a government that loses one_of_each_three votes? Look, if you're convinced of the ability to lead, you have a question of trust. And if you want to look at the citizenry face to face, directly call elections. We can't lose another minute to our country. They know the priorities, and not facing them is an irresponsibility that doesn't deserve them from the cargoes they're wearing. And, therefore, if they do not govern, if they do not respect the Parliament, if they do not have a majority and have renounced to submit assumptions, they fold. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.105.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, Ms. Anna Caula has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.106.0	Willingness of public service, social justice, freedom, equality and, yes, independence. We give it to the principles of the legislature and we repeat it again. We are here precisely for all this, to make a society better for everyone, fairer, freer and cleaner. From Republicanism, ruling for everyone, from honesty and service vocation. And yes, probably taking over the government at an exceptional and very complicated time. I'm not running away from him. But look, you can't be obviating; it wouldn't be just and it wouldn't be honest. We take a government after an illegal 155, restricted with our rights and freedoms, and with fellow MPs in prison and exile, which re-session limits this hemicicle to the reflex of which the society decided on 21 December. And living with the justice of democracy, the judgment of shame, which shows that our political prisoners are actually hostages. And of all this scenario, you, gentlemen of the PSC, are some of the main actors. To make a republic is also to rule well for everyone. And yes, we rule. And some, for different reasons, today they will question it, for one thing or another, and welcome the criticisms always, if they are constructive, but this is their only majority. As Vice President Aragones said, most of them are just criticisms. Ah, but where is the majority to push a real alternative to good governance? Then it doesn't exist. Then they introduce us to this original young man, we might say. You're talking about regulation one plere the other. The opposition has a tool for the long term that you want; a motion of censure is passed. They're talking about bravery. So go ahead, use the tool that surrounds them. But no, in a good process created, they raise a covert motion of censure, propose a question of trust, and they see that this is a tool that is only close to using the president. The remix formula, a question of confidence without alternative candidate, does not exist. We will assume all the responsibilities that surround us and take turns, even though they are neither easy nor comfortable. They do, however, you do the same: take backs that they have as opposition and set up a trusted motion with alternate candidate. The eras of bipartisanism and the absolute majority have ended. Now, here..., seven political forces, scenari us for everyone and, above all, a change of mindset. To rule, consensus, pacts, coalitions, and that's why we rule. A strict government, serious and compromised with the citizenry, with the whole of the citizenry. A government that listens to people's demands, seeks solutions and applies them. A government that works beyond the great headlines and takes care of the details of the projects and also develops the small letter of the commitments it undertakes, and always with a transformative look. This government's object is not the great headlines with a neon light, pharaohs. It is working for an inclusive, plural, diverse, healthy and healthy republic. Rigor in finance; we've come out of the FLA; three out of four euros in social policies, on assumptions that they didn't want to approve; call for five thousand master places, 250 meths, and the list would be very long. A list, though, that they don't want to listen to. Are they talking about the government's lack of respect for Parliament's agreements? Child protection debate. Approves measures amounting to EUR 10,392_million. To place us, all the presupposition of Salvation, twice the presupposition of Education. Summary: irresponsibility. Are we talking state assumptions? Talk to us. A great campaign of political marcheting. The PSOE did not want to assume the cost of listening to the other party that had agreed with the independenceists. A PSOE who didn't start a formal conversation with our party. The PSOE advertising assumptions that were smoke, as their proposals for Catalonia on 28-A. Of 100 proposals, heading for Catalonia. Smoke and more smoke. Perhaps, however, the question to ask us is: why is PSC raising an electoral dispute now? Maybe the recast is what aspires to make a future Ciutadans-PSOE government? They're acting for electoralism. They had support; they lacked political courage, however, to govern. Gentlemen of the PSC, please do not stifle the repression to put the Government of Catalonia in difficulty. Is that their objective, to profit parliamentarians from the state's judicial persecution? Stop being accomplices. They know how to make the paper that society has given them now. We take responsibility for who has the backing to rule, day by day and with a long look. I don't weaken Catalonia. Our commitment is to work every day to strengthen her...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.107.0	Please, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.108.0	Yours? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.109.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Mr Josep Costa, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.110.0	Thank you, President. Well, this young man is a cheating young man or a young man that we could qualify as an electoral gesticulation, because if you had or could have any legal effects you would not be legally eligible, because as you know perfectly well the subsequent motions to an inquiry cannot in any case be censored to the Government. And that, as Congresswoman Caula said, is a covert motion of censure that won't do them any good. When they talk about government, I could give them a recognition: this government can't rule and operate normally, because with political prisoners and exiles it can't rule normally, it's just missing. It is that here there is an unacceptable situation of repression that we must denounce every time we take the word. I wouldn't have time..., I have five minutes and I wouldn't have any time to start, if I were to read the government work of the last fifteen days; the last fifteen days..., I wouldn't have time, or in two minutes, to explain to you what this government has done. So, let's talk about inopérence. Inopportunity would be perhaps that of the central government, which in eight months was unable to fulfill its main commitments and which called for early elections because it seemed that it did not have a majority. That's inopportunity. And twenty-two years – more than half the years of democracy – in which they have not yet succeeded in eradicating the franchise of institutions. That's inopportunity. They're talking about losing most of this government. This government doesn't have a different situation than when it was invested. President Torra, the government of this country, has the confidence of the majority that he invested in May 2018. The only thing that could happen here is that you, on the basis of the judicial usurpation that has occurred from some votes in this Parliament, intend to approve something that you believe was in a different situation. But there won't be, there won't be a question of trust in this Parliament, because, logically, the President and the Government have the absolute confidence to continue to rely on the explicit support of the very Members who have invested them. Therefore, there is no loss of confidence in any group. This is not, as was said at some point, a situation comparable to that produced in the previous legislature, that a group that had invested the Government rejected the assumptions. We're not in this situation here. We are in a situation where the government maintained the support of the groups that invested it. And it's fixed, neither does it have a great inability to manage and make legislative agreements and achieve majorities in this Parliament. Fixin' there, this Parliament has validated new decrees approved by the government. Half of her decrees have been approved unanimously. God-in-law, what a loser of the majority, huh? Or, of her decrees, half have approved for unanimity. And, in the other half, the least I could bear exceeded a majority of two-thirds. I don't think we're that bad. Force elections with a young man? No, no, The power to call elections is exclusive to the President. If they want to make a change of government, as has been said, they must present a motion of censure. Maybe here they have a problem, which is that they don't have enough deputies to present it. The PSC Group does not have enough Members. They don't know if they'd force elections to take place. On the 21st of December, they already illegally forced elections, and they thought they might be guanyarians and not win them. He won the independence majority again. And I am absolutely convinced that if there are again elections, the independence majority will be revalidated, because this is the social majority of this country. We cannot support a situation of repression and exceptionality that destabilizes this government. They did not accept the results of those elections on 27 September. They didn't accept the October 1 result. They didn't accept the outcome of the 21st of December. And so, not even with cheats and the brute game of that campaign, with prisoners and exiles, they couldn't win. Nor will we accept the crude game that may mean saying or doing the holder that this government has lost the confidence of Parliament, when it has the support of the groups that will give it the stated vote in the investiture. President Torra's government is counting on the support he was invested in to continue to rule and will keep him, will keep him until the end of the legislature. We will not accept that it is a fiction that the Government has lost confidence on the basis of the usurpation of votes by the courts. This whole thing's gonna rise. This House has decided that all Members who have been elected for the city are still valid, that all Members have their rights, and therefore this is the majority of this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.111.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, in order to fix his position, has the word Ms. Lorena Roldán, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.112.0	Yes; thank you, President. Good morning. Well, a few days ago from Citizens we also made an inquiry to the government, because, about their lack of action, about their blockade, about their disgovernment, in short. The main social indicators give rise to very worrying data. We have the worst waiting lists in Catalonia. We are the autonomous community with more barracks. More than 26,000 Catalans are waiting for their aid for dependency. More and more children are at risk of exclusion – one_of_each_four. Thirty_Fifty_thousand people in Catalonia are in a situation of severe poverty. And we could go on, because unfortunately the list is very long. Yesterday, in fact, several groups in this chamber highlighted these and many other problems affecting Catalans, and so has the Socialist spokesman, the author of this motion, now. The question – and it is for the gentlemen of the PSC – is: if we share the diagnosis, if we agree that with Torra and the separatists in Catalonia we are going to get even worse, what did you do by giving them guavas from the Government of Spain? What was Mr. Sánchez doing saying that everything in Catalonia was normal and looking the other way? What was Mr. Sánchez doing with all honors to Mr. Torra and even begging for meetings? Meetings to talk about any of these problems? No, no, To talk about dependence? No, no, To talk about waiting lists? No, no, To talk about investment in infrastructure? Neither. Meetings to talk about the only thing these gentlemen know how to talk about: how to perpetuate the process's colloquium. Tora came out proud of those meetings, boasting how 90_per_cent of the conversation had revolved around the monotheme, of course. But Mr. Sanchez, giving them wings. Green light so that the money of all Catalans would be spent. In solving any of these problems? No, in political chiringuitos, well of embassies to make propaganda, to speak ill of Spain, well of chiringuitos to go putting the fugitives of justice and their friends charging a wage, I insist, despite the fact that there are Catalans who are in serious difficulties. Separatist propaganda everywhere: streets, squares, beaches, public buildings. And the Socialist Party and the gentlemen of the PSC have not moved a finger, or, yes, worse: they moved it to criminalize and signal to the citizens that they were removing that propaganda. What have you done? And the gentlemen of the Government, here present, dedicated themselves to pointing out and threatening those citizens as well. I'm going to ask you a question: Why don't you do the same thing with those who are throwing excrement and attacking courthouses? Why do they not do the same with those who attack the headquarters of my party day and day as well? Because you know who you are, but those don't identify you, no. But what else has Sanchez done at the head of the government? Because there are many things... Purging in the State's Law: Mr. Sánchez went from seeing the crime of rebellion to fulminating the state's lawyer, who also saw that crime, who held that crime. And not only that: Mr. Sánchez's government has devoted itself to questioning the work of judges and pre-trial detention, to talking about pardons... everything for what? Not to upset Mr. Torra, of course. Silence also before the report of the High Inspectorate of Education where it is believed that there is indoctrination in Catalan classrooms. Do you know where Mr. Sánchez had that report? Guarded in a drawer. And Mrs Celaá, the Minister for Education, I would like to remind her that she lied in Parliament saying that this report did not exist. Let's also talk about separatist propaganda and symbolism in schools. What have you, gentlemen of the PSC, done in the face of this? They haven't done anything. And I could go on, because you haven't stopped giving wings to separatism. So many wings that Mr Torra dared to give you a document of demands, twenty-one points that, look at me, my group, millions of Catalans and millions of citizens of the rest of Spain deeply outrage us. You have swallowed up the separatist whole framework. No wonder Mr. Sánchez doesn't want to talk on his Catalonian election program. If they would have to drop the face of shame, how they have sold the unit of Spain. I also tell you one thing: to me, being honest, I'm not surprised either, because we in Catalonia..., to the PSC we already know them. If it's all started with you. Mr. Iceta was the architect of the famous and nefarious tripartites. It was Mr.Iceta who had no hesitation in talking about granting pardons to those who have broken the coexistence in Catalonia. The same Mr.Iceta who just a few days ago said that if a very high majority – which you set at 65_per_cent, because you say so – wants independence, because a referendum will have to be held. What's going on, then he realized that we were in the campaign and he said, "Hey, look out, let's hide and I'm going to try to cover up what we really think. But, look, you know what's going on? That for Citizens and for most Catalans it no longer hangs. Do not hang, because you are accomplices of this abandonment by the government of Mr Torra. Not just a part of Catalans anymore, no, of all Catalans. I understand that you have to cover the file today and file this motion, but you too understand that we no longer believe you. Yet, as you know, from Citizens we will never give up defending the rights of all Catalans, neither for a chair in the Moncloa nor for being happy with Mr Torra and company, as you do. And today to defend those rights is to defend a government without Torra and a government for all Catalans. So we're going to work, of course, from Catalonia to do so. And also make it very clear that we are going to do it from the Government of Spain, not like you, who have been kneeling before separatism for nine months. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.113.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix his position, has the word Ms. Susanna Segovia, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.114.0	Thank you very much. We have witnessed during this plenary a few attempts and sometimes thanks to the Torra-Aragones government to convince us that they are ruling, with a full list of measures, that most of us are doing, "we are planning, "we are thinking that we may be planning a few months from now. And it is also quite curious to use the decrees approved in this Parliament as an example of the sum of consensus, when most were decrees in order to be able to approve changes of credit between the presuppositional prorogation, because, in reality, as we have no presuppositions, we have to approve decrees that avoid the disadvantage that supposes we have no presuppositions. So it's enough graces that the decrees read are what they use to say they generate consensus. It is not a matter of consensus, it is a matter of responsibility of this Parliament, which is a responsibility that we doubt very much that the government of Torra-Aragones has. You've had to get a lot of thousands of people out of town on the street because you're paying attention to them. We've got to have a late heat because you're getting stuff that's from the coven. So much to talk about assumptions that say they don't have the support because the rest of us don't want to, maybe they should look at what they're doing wrong with those assumptions that they don't even approve of the government's parties. Or, it is you who have the obligation to present assumptions; we are not the opposition, we have the obligation to approve assumptions. And if they want this support, which is obvious and, as they say, it's true, there is now more multi-stakeholderism and, therefore, we need to work on consensus, so maybe we should make an effort because the rest of the forces we can give support. Sotmeter's got a question of trust... I don't think there's an alternate candidate. I'd be brave to think if one could think that he still has the support that he had when he was made president. Mr. Puigdemont did it, it's no drama. It can be done, if you are convinced that you have this support. What's the problem? Do it, do it, and they'll come out very reinforced, and the ones we'll have to shut up for sure are all the rest. But it's not like that, we're with a government that doesn't rule, we're with a government that blocks, we're with a government that doesn't give an answer, that's not able, that pulls decrees out of it to be able to make expenses because it doesn't have approved assumptions, and that it's not able to put in place a tax reform that actually guarantees resources that won't come in, because it hasn't given itself up to assumptions – but, go, that's past water. But it is also true that a good part of this situation is due to the situation of political exceptionality that Catalonia is experiencing. And making an analysis without talking about this situation of political exceptionality, of the judicialization of politics and of the criminalization of protest is also making a report to myths. That's also doing a report on myths. That's why we also want to know who the PSC is carrying this proposal, this young man. What's the PSC's plan for Catalonia to get out of this conflict? The PSC will have the same courage that is being asked of Mr. Torra, for submetering his confidence question? Because much depends on what the PSC does. What is the PSC going to do and going to say in Madrid? Is that the 155 P.C.S.? Is it the PSC that blocked Catalonia's self-government or the valiant PSC that even did not defend the right to decide Catalonia as a way out of the political situation that we are living? It's the PSC that's been defending popular Catalanism for a long time, but it looks like it's now, doesn't it? Is it the PSC that corrects the statements when, from Madrid, they oppose the right to decide and do not reprimand and do not say king of the farce judgment that we are living in the Supreme? The PSC of the 135 reform, of the social details? The PSC that defends – and has done so here many times – the quality public school, a progressive and progressive financial reform, or the PSC that doesn't even make preference emetia from Caixa Catalunya? The PSC that only makes a decree a little brave, not of all valiant, because it doesn't regulate prices in Madrid, because it does it a lot because of the pressure of second-guessed investors...? The PSC that also now has the opportunity to decide what it will do with Mr. Calvet's housing decree, which is clearly a threat to the gatherings, or the PSC that contracts Gonzalo Bernardos, which is precisely against everything we are saying to defend the right to housing? We'll give support to this young man because we think we need to get out of the paralysis situation we're in. We believe that Mr. Torra should submit to a question of trust and should revalidate if he has or does not have the majority support of this chamber to continue as President of Catalonia. I, if not, therefore, should call elections, yes, I should call elections. That maybe it's not the best solution now, that we could probably do other things, but it's that from a government of paralysis and blockade we won't move forward. Because that's not a responsible government with Catalonian citizenship, that's the government of governance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.115.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix her position, has the word Ms. Maria Sirvent, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.116.0	Those who made Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría president of the Generalitat, protagonists of a time of institutional state as it was 155, do not have any legitimate, for us. This young man looks like a hairpin to us, and that's why we won't be taking part in the vote. What credibility can the PSC hold, encapsulated by Mr. Iceta? What credibility can a person have who one day defends that the solution passes through a reference and twenty-four hours after saying goodbye to the pressures of the right troglodyte and the pressures of the PSOE barons? What credibility and what political project can you hold for this country? Mr. Iceta yesterday, in this very same plenary, once again threatened this chamber with the application of 155. In fact, replicating Eduard Pujol, he came to compare the Spanish Constitution with the law of gravity, compared the Spanish Constitution with the law of gravity, as if it were a natural law, an immutable law. The Spanish Constitution, Mr. Iceta, is not a natural law, it is not the law of gravity. You know it perfectly well, because you changed Article 135 of the Constitution to defend bankers, and maybe this is where the comparison came from. The Spanish Constitution is a sluggish one that isolates the democratic wills of this country, an immutable tool, a tool for the powerful. What credibility can those who deny this Parliament be able to investigate the corrupt Spanish monarchy? In fact, the Spanish government in the hands of its party continues to apply 155 permanently against Catalonia. His project for this country is that of prohibition, that of imprisonment, that of exile and that of permanent blackmail. But we're also talking about the government of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra. It is obvious that they have no government, that this government does not govern, and that the country is in absolute weather. We already exposed him yesterday to the president: that the independence of the business out of the bailer in which he was installed last 21 December. Listen to the street, listen to the popular movement in defense of the right to self-determination, listen to the people. This Parliament and this Government, which came out of impossed elections, from elections without democratic guarantees, in a country in Sicily, have been an absolute failure. Calen leads us. Cal...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.117.0	Congresswoman, you've got to go through with this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.118.0	...a new date for some elections in Catalonia and to put the ballot boxes again. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.119.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to fix his position, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia. Come on in, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.120.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Is the legislature dead? I think it became clear yesterday, and this young man is reproducing the debate. There are no fundamental elements that a government needs: neither assumptions nor a solid parliamentary majority nor a plan for a government. I want to put myself back on this key issue. The plan of government can't invent one every twenty-and-four hours; that's what it is, that's what it is. And that plan of government had five fundamental points: the first was to restore Carles Puigdemont; the second was to implement the republic; the third was to recover intact the laws suspected for the Constitutional Court; the fourth was to draft the Catalan Constitution through a civic council, and the fifth was the assumptions, which is a repetition. In any case, this is what was agreed with the UPC. And from this plan of government... they didn't make one. I can understand that the CUP felt cheated. That you have no parliamentary majority is not given to a supposed and invented repression; it is due to the fact that your members have been systematically betrayed for you, that they obviously laid down a plan of government that was impossible and are unable to recognize reality and try to change things. In any case, the Socialist Party, which presents this motion, has a very heavy responsibility. A very difficult responsibility in the measure that, to endure Sanchez to the Moncloa, they have been generating a false feeling that they can negotiate or that they can dialogue with someone who has never manifested any kind of willingness to dialogue with re that it was legal. Because, ultimately, Sanchez was located in Moncloa for Mr. Puigdemont, and Mr. Puigdemont took Sanchez from Moncloa and provoked the elections. This is the reality of the current situation we are living in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.121.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Eva Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.122.0	Thank you, President. To say that we do not accept the papers that have been presented by the groups that support the Government. What is going to be voted at these times – and perhaps someone who has been bitten by the Socialist Group who is presenting it, and not others – is the recognition of the government's lack of respect for the mandates of this Parliament. And, second place, to complain to President Torra that he submitted to a question of trust or called for elections. Then, Mrs. Caula, to rule you need a majority, and you don't have it. Most of the city, when consulted by the CEO, says that Torra does not know how to solve the country's problems. That's what's going on. And to strengthen Catalonia we need a government, and you are not ruling. Mr. Costa, your arguments... Very quickly: Mr. Sánchez, as he does not have a majority, called elections, and Mr. Puigdemont, when he lost it, called a question of confidence. You don't want to make it all right. But it is that President Torra in August 2018 said: "Governments usually resign, if they do not approve the assumptions. So, Mr. Torra, it applies and calls for elections. And Mrs. Roldán..., well, actually, Mrs. Roldán and Mr. Costa; I think they do a good job, you two: some win the elections and run out, and the others have the majority but don't rule. And lords of the commons, I... they asked me what PSC we are. We're the usual PSC. I don't know which commons are you, whether they're Mr. Asens's or Mr. Coscubiela's. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.123.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. Are there petitions, meanwhile, for a separate vote? [[Pause.]] I understand, therefore, that the motion can be voted on together? [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] For allusions, yes. Thirty seconds, ahead of time. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.124.0	Yes, by allusions of Mrs. Granados. We are transversal, and in any case, what is clear is that in these commons we are the women in the front. Thank you. (Whispering)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.125.0	All right. Let's get to the vote. I insist, don't I? The vote is taken jointly by the whole House. The vote begins. This motion was adopted by 62 votes to 61, with no abstentions and four Members present who did not vote. [[Greetings.]] [[Josep Costa and Rossello ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Costa. I'm asking for the word for...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.126.0	For a call to the observance of the Rules, of Article 72.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.127.0	Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.128.0	"The plenary of the Parliament is the supreme organ and is integrated by the elected Members who have acceded to the full exercise of the condition of Members of the Parliament. If the vote of all the deputies is taken into account, this young man would have been rejected. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.129.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Eva Granados and Galiano ask to speak.]] Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.130.0	As a matter of contradiction, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.131.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.132.0	We have just listened to Mr Costa, but I want to make it clear that there are Members here who have been replaced and voting, and others who have decided not to be replaced and not to vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] So you don't have any sense, the one you just said. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.133.0	All right. Thank you, Congresswoman. In any case, if there is nothing else, we suspend the session until two-quarters of the late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.134.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the victims of terrorism]] [[302-00086/12]] Let us resume the session with the agenda item, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the victims of terrorism, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Mr Matías Alonso has the word to expose the young lady.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.135.0	Thank you, President. Very late, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. First of all I want to greet José Vargas and Santos Santamaría, members of the Catalan Association of Victims of Terrorist Organizations, who are with us today. In the inquiry I presented on behalf of the Ciutadans Group on 20 March last, I tried to clarify the reasons behind this motion which led to the drafting of this motion. Victims of terrorism have paid for decades the highest price that can be paid on account of our freedom. The victims of terrorism have been too long silenced and without the institutional and social support they certainly deserve. While preparing the inquiry, I thought that a few days earlier the act of homage to Santos Santamaría had almost gone unnoticed, the first – and I hope the last – mosso d'esquadra victim of a terrorist attack, killed in Rosas on March 17, 2001, now eighteen years ago. But it is that on 11 March, European Day of Victims of Terrorism, it had also gone unnoticed at the institutional and social levels. Victims of terrorism have paid the highest price for our freedom and do not deserve to be forgotten. They do not ask much: only memory, dignity, justice and, as far as possible, reparation; in the words of Santos Santamaría Zaragoza, who accompanies us today, "memory, memory and pedagogy. And that's what this motion is about. A motion which we have tried to make clear and which does not lend itself at all to second readings. It only goes from victims of terrorism, without any partisan connotation, even if it is asked – as it cannot be otherwise – greater involvement by the institutions of the Generalitat. I think it's everyone's responsibility that it finally is. We present the motion structured into two blocks, comprising a total of sixteen points. The first block, with a total of ten points, aims to involve this Parliament, representing the citizens of Catalonia as a whole, and Catalan society in responding to the demands of the victims of terrorism and in reaffirming the values articulated by our democratic system, while recognizing and appreciating the work of all the security forces and bodies, all the police forces, emergency services and civil protection services in the fight against terrorism and its consequences. It is also a bloc that seeks to establish a social and political consensus to reject totalitarianism and terrorist violence. The rejection of xenophobia, racism, hatred based on beliefs or ideas, because it is the substrate on which terrorist violence is based. To condemn the negationism and banalization of terrorist crimes, whatever the area in which they occur, including the demand for rigorous use of the term 'terrorism', which avoids the partisan and banal instrumentalization of this concept. Special mention should be made of the work carried out by all associations of victims of terrorism, in particular the Catalan Association of Victims of Terrorist Organizations. ACVOT is the leading association in Catalonia in defending the rights and interests of victims of terrorism. Its long history and its commitment to keeping out of politics have also made it a benchmark in the field of association in defense of the victims of terrorism in Spain. This explicit recognition is not and does not want to be exclusive for any other association of victims of terrorism, but it is justice to expressly acknowledge the enormous work carried out and the long history of the ACVOT. If they have ever been or have ever appeared to be more vindictive of the account, we can only recognize them that the cause deserves it. I recall again: the victims have paid the highest possible price for our freedom and deserve our support, as a parliament and as a society. The second bloc, consisting of a total of six points, urges the Government of the Generalitat to dignify and honour the memory of all victims of terrorism, annually commemorating the European Day of Victims. He asks them to be involved in the creation, within the framework of the culture of peace, of a broad tradition in Catalonia, of a culture of rejection of terrorist crimes, of social awareness and of respect and solidarity for the victims of terrorism. Finally, the Government is asked to help ACVOT to remain a focal point in the defence of the victims of terrorism in Catalonia and to be able to carry out its altruistic work towards the victims, with the dignity they certainly deserve. I think it's justice. I hope that the majority of this Parliament will also see it that way and support this motion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.136.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.137.0	Thank you, President; good afternoon. Greetings to Mr. Vargas and Mr. Santos. And to begin my intervention with a positive message: today we are carrying a black spot, which is only and today we are wearing in honor of autism, not to which it represented a few years ago this black spot; and I think it is worth remembering as well. Because it seems that we are only talking about terrorism when their time comes back to the raw reality, the time for those who do not believe in freedom or democracy, who deny the word and use violence, the time for people to live together and create the worst feeling: that of por. They want us to have, to feel insecure and to add this insecurity to so many others. That is why the presentation of the motion is timely, and I would like to thank the Member who proposed to seek the maximum consensus. We've been able to trade some things, the others not – and I'll be referring to it too. Because the fight against terrorism must be constant, it has many aspects: security, intelligence, cooperation, institutional and international cooperation, as well as geopolitics and cooperation, and it has a lot of policy. It also has a social, educational, collective consciousness, to make it very clear that as democrats we reject firmly and without doubt any form of terrorism, rape or intimidation. And there's a lot of recognizance, of recognizance to victims. There is one aspect, this last one, which I would like to mention concretely, which is that, if we talk about obliging terrorism at times, we cannot forget, that it is the victims, to whom they owe all the efforts we can make to condemn and fight terrorism. For them, for their record and for their recognition, sometimes I can also remind the public powers that cannot be forgotten and that I can recognize and work with organizations and associations of victims of terrorism. We have liked, I do not love, a more generic wording, more inclusive, in a struggle that cannot admit exclusions; but our task has not been accepted. Still, we'll vote for these points. That is why we have also introduced a message that will bring back the culture of peace, cooperation and solidarity, so close to Catalonia, in order to transmit memory, dignity, patience and solidarity with the victims of terrorism. We share, as it cannot be in any other way, the recognition of so many members of the police forces, of the emergency services and the civil protection services, who have been victims as well as workers, to fight terrorism. Therefore, our recognition. Let's say, like Socialist Group and Forward Units, in our democratic values, and that's why we share the background of this young man. We fully share the rebreed to any form of violence and that no one who has been in any way – implicit or explicit – justifying, gathering or refusing to condemn terrorism can be considered a democrat. But let's say it: we can't share the language, the language you sometimes use, which seems more to engage in confrontations than to fight for democratic values of respect and pau. You can't use the term "terrorist" unless you really have the money, because..., and I don't think it's this, the fund, but I want to say that, trying to avoid hatred, we don't generate it. I think we need to be very polite. The fight against terrorism, respect for victims, only deserve unity from all democrats. And above all, we need to be very curious about what we want to pass on to our young people and society. Because any campaign of knowledge, awareness, has to strengthen the culture of the pau and the defense of democratic values. It's a cry, a cry or a demand, but I think it's in the background that we need to get all the folds out of this young man. We shall vote in favour of the motion, except in points 9, 10 and 16, in which, for which I expressed a moment ago, we shall abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.138.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, it is the turn of Mrs Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.139.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone, welcome the people who visit us today. From Catalonia to Comú Puedes, we condemn all kinds of terrorism: state and non-state terrorism, ETA terrorism, LAG terrorism, macho terrorism, jihadist terrorism, terrorism against peoples..., but that of all peoples, such as that of the Israeli Government against the Palestinian people or the terrorism of apartheid. That is why we have always been committed and committed to strengthening the basic principles of democracy, dialogue and the protection of fundamental rights. We reject all forms of violence, we reject those discourses and policies that favor the permanence and increase of war conflicts, just as we advocate that the concern for prevention never implies a reduction of the rights of citizens. That is why we find it shameful that there are parties, such as Citizens', which exalts respect for the victims and are using and politicizing terrorism with this motion, to open the back door to the illegalization of parties. At least his friends from Vox in Andalusia go ahead and take him directly to the election program. Political consensuss to combat terrorism exist, but we suspect that their intention is not to build consensus, but to point out with their finger accusers to other organizations and extend terrorism to any action. It is impressive that a political party defends that there are first and second victims, and that is what is being done. It is a shame that you did not want to condemn the state terrorism suffered by the Spanish people and Catalan during the Franco regime. It says a lot that they have not accepted our amendment condemning the Francoist Government's terrorism. Today, once again, you have made it clear to us that you have a double measuring rod when talking about terrorism, and you put one more dot to the list of your actions that protect the Franco legacy, because let us not forget that you were the ones who, in 2007, together with the PP, opposed the creation of the Democratic Memorial; you were the ones who left this chamber in 2013 in order not to have to vote on a motion that condemned the Franco dictatorship; you were the ones who, together with the PP, in 2017, voted against the non-law proposal that asked the Spanish Government to investigate the Francisco Franco National Foundation; you were the ones who abstained from declaring the courts constituted during the Civil War and Francoism illegitimate, and you were also the ones who agreed a few months ago in Andalusia with Vox and PP, allowing no resources to be spent on historical memory or gender policies. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, the future of Spain and Catalonia must go through the truth of justice, reparation and democratic commitment, and today you have shown us that you are not in this line. Because we do have a real commitment to all fundamental rights, today we cannot vote in favour of all the points of the motion. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.140.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Orobig has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.141.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Councillors, deputies, deputies, representatives of entities and associations of victims of terrorism, in the first place I would like, by personal deference, to refer to Mr Matías Alonso, to whom, as always, I thank his exquisite treat; one thing is the ideological difference and another thing is the behavior between Members, and I therefore always thank him in the negotiations that we have maintained with respect, in this case of this young man. Well, I, at the time of the intervention, couldn't help but be envious of an activity that certain fellow Members of Parliament recently had – in my parliamentary group, therefore, Mrs Najat and Mrs Ruben Wagensberg – that I am sure that Members from other parliamentary groups were able to have a point of order to talk about racism and xenophobia and to say what should be the public commitment of the different political formations to respect. I believe that terrorism is of great importance because we have done the same thing. That's not what I'm doing with a toilet, Mr Alonso; everyone, every MP, every parliamentary group has the obvious right to promote all those initiatives that they understand. But I understand, from my point of view, that the transcendence of this assumption required, if not, therefore, to speak to it, right? , try among all folds to find a point of detail, which, obviously, will cost to settle down. Because we cannot refrain from the reality that we are living today. We do not live in a context of democratic normality. Obviously, this is a democratic parliament. In a democratic parliament maybe no heat, huh? , this young man; probably we have already found a point of understanding that you have made that all the political formations that are represented in this Parliament find a common point, a common denominator to address this issue. But it is obvious that there is no such democratic normality. Before he referred to respect for the whole thing. The whole, the language of this young man is alien to us, I have to confess, huh? , sounds like a daily newspaper from the capital of Espanya, does not sound like a newspaper that usually engages in political discussions that take place in our country. In the same way that we are all alien, we also read between solutions lines and proposals that make us understand that the will is to go further. We're talking about democratic normality, we're talking about banalization. We have come to a point of understanding to fight against the banalization of the term 'terrorism', but it is obvious that there is no democratic normality when the first one who banalizes the term 'terrorism' is the fiscal ministry of a country, huh? When a prosecutor accuses of terrorism some Altsasu dwarfs who have a barricade; when the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, therefore, imputes terrorism to people like Tamara or Adri, it is obvious that we are not living in a democratic normality framework and, therefore, it is evident that, as public representatives, as dispositories in this case of the trust of many of our citizens, we must read between lines this young man. And between lines, therefore, obviously they're'suspended'; some have advanced. We fear that the positions that some may have may lead to the illegalization of political parties, precisely of some who are represented in this chamber, right? And it is obvious that, therefore, we cannot afford the integrity of the text that you propose to us. And we must also denounce, beyond these interlines, that they have an obvious democratic transcendence... so neither can we add to the distinction between the same as you claim. It is true that all associations of victims of terrorism must be worthy of our respect and admiration, but what we cannot do is make distinctions between them, and I believe that a fundamental principle of institutions and public powers is precisely age for equality between them. And, therefore, from solidarity with associations, also with that which you literally express to your motion, therefore, logically we cannot share specific pronouncements addressed to one, can we not? And I wouldn't want my intervention to end without talking about omissions. Clearly, yours is a good-natured young man, huh? And I understand that you're right, so, precisely to distinguish..., to talk about victims and associations, but I think it's abstract to do, to ask the government of the State to complement, from the corresponding general direction, that it's to collect victims..., so that they do harvest these. Recently we have listened to the complaints of victims and relatives of victims in relation to the unfortunate storm of August 17th in Barcelona, and also allow me, from the personal point of view, therefore, man, recreating 'which did not have time either to make a simple line or a simple ratella remembering precisely the victims of the latest terrorist storm in our country, which was that of Barcelona. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.142.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.143.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. He will advise, advise, deputies, deputies, take advantage of this attendance also to greet the entities that accompany us, the ACVOT and the UAVAT, its presidents, Mrs Vargas, Mrs Bosch; thank you for accompanying us at this session. And also to translate in proper name, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Catalonia and as a group that supports the Government, all the support and solidarity to all victims of terrorist, family and friend acts that accompany us or that listen to us or that may be there in our country, because, as always, we have been and are, therefore, at the cost of the pain and suffering of all these victims of these unwarranted acts and that we condemn everything. Let me also say that I have not ceased to regret, as some other group has already done before me, that the language and the whole and some expressions that employ the movement, as well as the previous inquiry, seemed to us to be a little out of place and with some instrumental use of victims of terrorism in favor of party positions, which we also regret and condemn. For example, the explanatory part of the young woman is that "the institutional response in Catalonia has left much to be desired. There has been a lukewarmness towards those who have paid a high price. We believe that this is absolutely out of place and that it does not deserve, therefore, what the government does as well or camres like this Parliament, to support the victims of terrorism. Let us remember the same adviser to his inquiry, fifteen days ago: he recognized us that they were conscious and that they had rejected, therefore, the repeated complaints of different people and families for what he does to restrictive policies by the Ministry of the Interior for what he does to the recognition of the type of victims of the unfortunate storms of August 17 and 18, 2017, and above all also in the terms of presentation. Therefore, the councilwoman, therefore, has already done so, with regard to the concern of the Government and the conscience of the Government. It also means that in this young man, in all the points that lie, in no case is it a reference, nor is there anything that I want to see with the responsibility that the central government has, eh? There is no reference to Law 29/2011, in which it is gathered that "the Ministry of the Interior, through the delegates of the Government and the Directorate-General responsible, is responsible for assisting victims of terrorism and promoting and coordinating, developing and implementing the dissemination of the protocols. Nor does it refer to delays or lack of response on the part of the ministry; nor does it refer to recognition and delay in responding to certain victims or families of victims, and no or no knowledge action on the part of the ministry of this case. Nor does it refer to the fact that they are about to prescribe some of the help they have asked for, so the families of the victims or the same victims, because they do not answer in time. No reference, as we also say, to the restrictive policy for the admissibility of certain types of victims or certain complaints. We repeat, some competitions that are in the hands of the central government and that we would understand that in a situation of normality of our country, equal to..., competitions that should have been held by the Council of Justice of the Generality of Catalonia. Neither has it been made clear nor appreciated that the same Department of Justice makes available to the citizen the Information Service and Telematics Orientation to the Victims of Crime, in which victims of terrorist crimes are also involved, and that there is a money and a free phone for attention. Neither is the creation of the technical committee to follow up on incidents with multiple victims, or, recently, the Plan of incidents with multiple victims and post-incidents of Barcelona, set in march from what went on in August. Therefore, in some of these points we will vote against, in some we will abstain. We also remember that it is only from one of the entities that are present here today and that it is not in the UAVAT's case either, unit that is being made at these times..., that it is submitting applications representing more than two-hundred families or victims before the ministry. Therefore, before these inaccuracies or this little rigour in some of these points of the motion, in some of these we will have to abstain, precisely, so, not so much to go against that actually, globally, they would like to propose, just because we think that they are little curious to recognize that there are multiple representatives in this sense of the victims. Let me also remind you that in someone who is talking about trivializing and minimizing or trivializing terrorism... the proposed group is precisely who...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.144.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.145.0	...has repeatedly served these terms in the process that our country is patenting. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.146.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to fix his position, he has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.147.0	Thank you, President. Well, he talks to a deputy who, in '87, feels a spokesman for the Call to Solidarity – together with Jordi Sánchez, today's political judge at the Supreme Court – condemned Hipercor's attempt. And it is also worth saying that in that decade the same Call to Solidarity suffered a terrorist storm in ours by a fascist group, mediating the placement of an explosion at gunpoint. So you, lords and lords of Ciutadans, who are relative to us in politics, in certain matters, like this, might have to have a more humble and cautious attitude. I know they're not worth you practicing, but I suggest you incorporate them. Also a militant soc of a political movement that condemns the military terrorist actions of NATO and the United States in much of the planet, as well as the terrorism of the State of Israel over the Palestinian people or the terrorism of the Turkish State over the Kurdish people or the terrorism of the Daesh. We also condemn the terrorism of the European Union which causes the deaths of thousands of immigrants and refugees in the Mediterranean. As we also denounce state- and class-based terrorism that involves the misrepresentation of people and families in a precarious and poor situation, so does the fact that poor people have a life expectancy of twelve years less than the benefactors, because for us it is also a facilitator of terrorism all that is not zero tolerance with feminicides, with LGTBIphobic, racist or xenophobic attacks, and with fascism and Nazism, tolerance that you have relaxed strength, in view of what you show your alliances with Vox. It was also terrorism in the LAG, and so was police activity in the October 1st and subsequent repression, without forgetting the young people of Altsasu. Certainly, lords and lords of Ciutadans, you and we have a concept quite different from what is and is not terrorism, and one of the main differences is that you do not consider or denounce state terrorism, of which you are complicit, and which is the main and most aggressive in the wider history. We are betting today to overthrow the 78th Regime and to fight capitalism and patriarchy through democratic radicalism, class struggle and non-violent civil disobedience through revolutionary popular struggle [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , and always, always – I finish, President – we will put social, civil and political rights over the raison d'être, contrivedly to you who pose the raison d'être over human rights.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.148.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.149.0	You banalize terrorism, not instrumentalize victims, and as a fan of the party; we will not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.150.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of MP Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.151.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... well, first I'd like to say hello to Santos Santamaría and Mr. Vargas. In these two and a half minutes of time I have to express the position of our party, the People's Party, to this motion, I wanted to give some thought here to the plenary, right? Look, the wounds of terrorism have marked one before and one after the victims of terrorism: many families..., a tear that has suffered those families that is completely unjustifiable, and have always done so at the hands of totalitarians, under one excuse or another, but always totalitarian. Here we had a consensus, not many years ago, that it was the condemnation of violence, the condemnation of those who biased the lives of other people under any kind of justification: that it has been broken. And the reality is that this institution has received Mr Otegi as a man of peace, in this very institution, in this Parliament. The plates of the public media have become altars of Mr Sastre and Mr Otegi. Mr. Bentanachs helps prevent a court order from being executed in front of the department of... the councillor. Look, some political groups have even become accustomed, that in the manifestations of the ANC it is shouted « terra lliure and that no one, we go, nor is it muted, taking into account the effects of Terra Lliure in Catalonia. Look, there is no alibi – no alibi –, not even stylistic in order not to vote on this motion. In liberal democracies life is protected, and it is done – and done – because advanced democrats find no justification for anyone to bias another person's life. The last group has spoken here before I intervened on a number of points. The day Mr. Jordi Sànchez doesn't justify the massacre of Hipercor, he gives us lessons. In the meantime, you better shut up. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.152.0	To position himself on the exams, has the new word the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.153.0	Thank you very much, President. First of all, regret the flight of study and reiterate that this young man does not have second readings; therefore, I will not make second readings of the speeches I have listened to. I must say to Mr Orobtig that – I said this in my intervention – the associations and victims of terrorism have had decades of loneliness. That's it. And this is in this Parliament and in many other parliaments before this, where perhaps there was more democratic normality in our autonomous community. There is no reference, implicit or explicit, to the possible illegalization of political parties; there is no mention, there is only a call to society to use, precisely, the democratic system to reject the presence of these groups in parliaments. I don't know if Catalonia will continue or not giving the scale to the victims. I have listened to toilets by Mr Munell, who at the time of truth were not included in the papers. I'll talk about the exams. Of the total number of papers presented, new joints of Joints for Catalonia and of the Republic Group, by the Socialists and Units Group for Progress and four by the Catalonia Group in Comú May, we have not traded again and we have accepted a direct one, which is included in the text; therefore, I believe that fortunately we have been able to work among all to improve the final result of this young man. We have dealt with the number 1 items of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo and number 1 of the groups Republica y Juntas per Catalunya, which affect the number 1 point of our motion. We have also dealt with item number 1 of the Socialist Group and Forward Units, which affects item 2... That is to say, many issues dealt between different groups and we have also dealt with issues with the Socialist Group and Forward Units; to set an example, therefore, points 12, 13, 14 of the motion are also affected by issues dealt with by this group. To thank the collaborators of each group, and to regret the possible flight of study that we will see later on in the result of the vote. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.154.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.155.0	For a separate vote on points 9, 10 and 16, which may go together– 9, 10, 16.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.156.0	All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Munell...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.157.0	If I may, for a point of order I would like to make an element, if the President allows me. Mrs Esperança García made a point of the ANC; at these moments, president, our deputy, who cannot be here, the president of our parliamentary group..., in the event of the ANC, which I also attended, I have never heard that he is called in favor of Terra Lliure, and therefore I believe that this appreciation was to be made, because it is a mantra that has been repeated and that in the end... you say lies that in the end something remains. Thank you. [[Greetings. Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.158.0	Mrs. Segovia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.159.0	Yes, to ask for a separate vote. We would need 9 to be voted on separately, and 10 and 16 can be voted on together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.160.0	Okay. Any more petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] So we vote first... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Mrs. Caula, I'm sorry, I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.161.0	Separate vote also from point 7, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.162.0	Set? [[Pause.]] Okay, so we'll vote first on point 7, point 9, 10 and 16 together, and the rest of the motion. So let's go ahead and vote number seven first. The vote begins. There was a tie in the vote of the seven... [[remorse of the voice]] - No, no, no, No, no, excuse me, excuse me. I've certainly confided in myself. It approved: 61 votes in favour, against, 61 abstentions, and 4 Members or Members present who have not voted. Excuse me. We now vote on the number 9 point – number 9 point of the motion. Point 9_has been rejected by 38 votes in favour, 61 against, 23 abstentions and 4 Members present who have not voted. And now we're going to vote on point 10 and 16 together. The vote begins. The points desired and set of this motion have been rejected by 38 votes in favour, 66 against, 18 abstentions and 4 Members or Members present who have not voted. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion has been approved by 122 votes in favour, against, abstentions and four Members or Members present who have not voted. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the electronic vote in trade union elections to the Administration of the Generality (withdrawn)]] [[302-00082/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, and as the motion for a question to the Government about the electronic vote in the general government elections has withdrawn, let's go straight to the new point. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the plan of government and political culture]] [[302-00083/12]] Therefore, the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the plan of government and the political culture, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. To expose it, the honourable Member Maria Sirvent has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.163.0	Well, good afternoon, and, as usual, whatever the outcome of this vote is, we're already telling them that we don't expect this government to develop the measures that this young man has. And it is that every day the government shows us that it cares very little what is approved in this Parliament. In fact, this government, beyond symbolism and republican rhetoric, cares very little about the commitments it made to the people. And we think this isn't just us, but you see people. We, as opposed, have the responsibility to make proposals. And that's why we're bringing this young man to debate. A motion in which we propose to reduce the underruns of the top ranks and the deputies. Today, the Government's 477 trust funds hold less than €70 thousand in mid-January, and more than 60 per cent of these funds occupy men. We propose that certain decisions pass through the plenary, such as the approval of our trust or to whom they place on the board of directors. We also ask you to set up a quality control service for public services that provide business, foundation or private entities, because you delegate the management of certain public services to your friends and then worry. What's going on with the health transportation service? The most important award of the second legislature of the Government of Artur Mas, an award that the independentist left led to the prosecution. Who's controlling the auctions? What happens to the number of awards that are being investigated judicially for bad practice, for misappropriation, for corruption, especially with contracts of the Department of Health. Despite the systemic failures of the contracting companies, such as we denounced yesterday, do you continue to defend a fraudulent, opaque, corrupt and inefficient private management system that has direct effects on people? Mr Sabrià said to us yesterday: "We will never leave anyone behind, for reasons of reason, but it justifies exclusion. So the best way not to expel anyone, Mr. Sabria, is to guarantee access to universal, public, quality services for everyone, and that no one sees exclusions from sanitation or a good school for their girls because of economic issues. That's why we ask you to get the title back, manage it and provide it with all the benefits and you serve that are necessary for the reproduction of life. We have already told them: it is not just a question of social justice, it is a question of necessity. Abertis, highways; Natural Gas, basic sub-administrations; Agbar, water; Buildings and Contracts Development, residuals, water..., all these companies have lent to a state operation taking advantage of Rajoy's decree. They did it to make it go through a society that has a lot of war and knows what it's like to win. And that's absolutely miserable. We make it easy for the municipality to take control over water, public transport or waste collection, we remain independent so that we can self-supply everything that is necessary for our municipality. So we don't depend on anyone to make our own decisions. The President said yesterday that the people must be free, sovereign, that they must not have, that if we do not govern ourselves, they will govern us. Beyond the speech, what does that translate into? We stand at the side of the gatherings that want to govern, that want to decide, at the margin of cacics that has long since ruled us all the municipalities. If not, explain it to the mayor of Terrassa, or explain it to the Sabadell government team, who for having denounced the mafia do not stop chasing them. No one chased, until the CUP entered and raised captives, no one elected for the Innova case or for the Mercuri case..., until we arrived. Yesterday the president spoke to us about all the policies promoted by this government in terms of equality. They know that the Administration is the first responsible for this feminization of the poor, for this precariousness of the women working in Valoriza or Clece, Florentino Pérez's company, which continues to exploit us with full complicity of these institutions, we ask them to campaign to stop this barbarism, because it is not enough, because we do not want to exploit ourselves any more, because we want worthy lives, and you are complicit in the fact that the women continue to exploit our work. And lastly, we ask them to wander further in, in dignity, to truly put their lives in the center, to expropriate the floors of Bankia and Sareb, which we have paid for and paid for. These floors we've paid for with the bailout at the bank. Take the side of people, of popular movements, who are the only ones who defend the rights of all before their great inopportunity. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.164.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Irene Fornós has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.165.0	Good afternoon, thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies, well, then we will find again from the table a motion of the UPC, which, for which it was already in its moment the inquiry that was made at the end of Ple, already gave us many leads, a little, of which would be the real intention of this; a motion on the plan of government and political culture that is still a distilation, precisely, of a political culture much more focused on its own discourse than on promoting an effective change of society. A young man who speaks to us in his statement about the plan of government, and precisely during this plenary and in this Faristol has been talked about, and much has been said. And I think that from our parliamentary group we have been very clear and, at times, realistic and sincere, but also responsible for the situation we live in, and this, in my opinion, also reflects our political culture, concerned, as much as you, to reduce inequalities and aware that to do so is essential a Catalonia state. Left has no kind of doubt about his role as a country camcorder, as Joan Tardà says, in order to water it down into self-determination and social justice, as we wear years and years trying to do. And from the CUP we present a motion that we can contrast with this political culture; a motion that proposes a whole series of proposals and petitions, most of them, in our opinion, that please us, and at first glance, without doubt, are popular, but lacking rigour, development and content to make them consequent and to be able to implement them. In short, as we have said, and as it reflects its contents, a motion that draws the partisan intent and, if you will, a little populist of this. And speaking of government, for example, I will also refer to the words of Mrs Vergés, who addressed her Member, Mr Vidal Aragonés, of her parliamentary group, when she told him that responsibility, responsibility to take part in things, responsibility to build up to improve and responsibility to leave the comfort zone, the area that allows us to criticize or propose things without assuming any type of responsibility or facing its complexities. And that's also our political culture, especially if you aim to bring forward those things that surely in many of them we have many points in common, as the Councillor gave you yesterday, for which she does left-wing policies. Our political culture is to demand that all of us here, Members and Members, stand at the height of our country's situation, and that is also what the chairman of my parliamentary group, Mr Sabrià, said yesterday in this faristol. We're in a complex situation where it's probably hard to find consensus, but, despite this, the groups that we support the government, while many times extended into ideologies, and certainly many times also in the ways of doing so, we've been able to work folded at a time when the situation of prisoners, exiles, repression, and anti-democracy justices demand it. But, well, coming in now to evaluate the points of the young man, we believe that in his young man there are many things that are already being done, many things that are already regulated, that already have mechanisms to deal with them, such as transparency or failure of this and sanctions derivatives, access to information for what he does to contracts, etc. And others that you do from where you propose or that you push in your young man..., even they may end up feeling a intrusion into other areas that the government does not have competence and that in any case, surely, even it might end up falling into the realm of local autonomy. Despite this, we have taken care to talk about it and value it, and to turn on and agree on ideas, and even to make some deal that would keep the line of your motion and improve it to make it more realistic. But at last it was not possible, since it did not come to an agreement, because the papers that were finally proposed, they ended up presenting, they did not respect what we had in principle granted to make it possible. And here we do have a difference in political culture that we often find lacking, not just with the CUP. When Esquerra negotiates, it does it constructively, to try to get to points in common, not to marish the loss or for tactics that later have no strategy. And surely that was so because the purpose of the same young man was not to reach agreement, but to make his political speech, which is very respectable and predictable, and more in the electoral context in which we find ourselves. But, as we have said, we are here to do politics, politics that solve problems and serve to build a just and free country. For all these reasons, we cannot support this young man. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the French Deputy of Dalmatia, for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.167.0	Thank you, President. CUP companies, we have read your motion, and we are very clear about the republic they want – and that we are in the campaign, in the pre-campaign – we are very clear about the republic they want, but now it is up to us to know if they really want independence. I know that yes – I know that yes – they will already hear me; but we want to explain it to them in this way. One of the most beautiful childhood records I have was a Darius Fo account that explained to me my father, in which a fisherman saw his people sinking, and went to the people and said to them, "The people sink. And there was a group of savis who said to him, "Let it be, you know nothing, you are a fisherman. We know now that we're going to do these lights, and we're going to do the streets this way. And every day the people would sink a little. And the fishers warned them, and said to them, "We are the wise men, no matter what you explain to us, because you are the fisherman. And Dario Fo, who did so with a lot of humor, said that even when the people were already in deep water, they still felt the eyes of the wise men who said, "It's nothing, it's nothing, it's nothing, the people don't get in deep. And I'll explain this account to you because I thought about it when your young lady came along, because it's amazing that the UPC is drawing the country that she wants, but it's that we all live in the country, all the people who voted for this hemicicle and even all the people who didn't vote for it. And to make independence possible... it's not just the country that you want, it's a very good part, a majority of the people who are in this hemisphere. And to make it possible, so, today, President Puigdemont and Councillor Comín and Councillor Clara Ponsatí explain to us very well, that we need to do this. Yesterday the CUP told us: "What have they done? They said they're doing from the Constitution to the restitution, and we don't know what they've done. And I said to them, "Home, to ask for responsibilities, responsibilities must be assumed. And I remember that when President Torra made his investiture and explained some lives, one of these lives was that of the constituent process, which was to be parallel to many others. And everyone in the CUP wanted people on the side, but in this specific one he said to them: "We need you very much. And your answer was: « Cap responsabilité– cap responsabilité. We go directly to the opposition. We know that independence has an unbeatable relationship: it's civic, it's peaceful, it's democratic, it's based on knowledge and recognition of human rights, it says that they're obedient to popular will, whatever it is... It's unbeatable if we go together, because, if we don't go together, we'll never meet that goal. That's why the Spanish constitutional architecture wants to divide us, that's why Junts for Catalonia, for us it won't be, they'll find us together, and we'll always find each other supporting each other. Because, look, if I was registered in Berga, I wouldn't vote for Montse Venturos, but when Montse Venturos had problems, we didn't just tweet, but we went to the courts in Manresa, we hugged him and told him we loved him. And when there were problems in Verges we were next to the mayor. And it seems to us that there can be no shadow of doubt as to the forms of struggle, repression... against the repression of the groups of this chamber, which effectively identifies it and which effectively fights against it. And we have to go with great care, because when you said yesterday: "Vagain with the only desire to fall, you have to bear in mind that you have fallen to lead directly to exile or to prison. [[Greetings.]] And you, who are specialists in speaking of cures, must take care within and outside the borders of your party. In Xavier Domènech a few days ago, talking about the investiture of Jordi Turull, I don't know if at that time we knew we were up. And I'm talking about this, I'm talking about this, to the independence forces: being on the rise. Certainly, to assault the cells– to assault the cells– to vote on motions with the quality vote of Llarena..., god-in-law, this morning. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In fi, it's not just about [[the veils of the fons persist]] ..., it is not only a matter of defending our doctrinal bodies to death, but also that there is an intelligent citizenry that triages it, and that at these times what is in doubt is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.168.0	Quiet! [[Widow's remorse.]] Order, order... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Order! Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, if you don't know how hard it is, the Presidency will moderate the debate, Members of Parliament and Members of the Government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.169.0	I'll go back, in case I haven't heard from all the deputies: to assault the cells to approve motions with Llarena's quality vote, let's see how things have changed. [[Greetings.]] At these times, what we are concerned with is preserving the space of sovereignty, which is this Parliament, which has the legitimate president in prison; it is preserving the space of sovereignty which the Government also represents, with the legitimate president in exile; it is preserving Ómnium, which has its president in prison; it is preserving the ANC, which has its president in prison. We'll only get out if we get together. See if we know how to be, as I said in Domènech, all folds up. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.170.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Marina Bravo, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.171.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors, well, it would be rare for the CUP - Crida Constituent and the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group to agree on something. Sometimes it does happen that we vote together; we vote together, but it is often for radically opposite reasons. We vote together, for example, when the parliamentary groups supporting this Government bring here some of their occurrences, their initiatives, which are a real insult to more than half the Catalans but which do not seem enough to the UPC. It can be seen that what the CUP likes most is the action of the groups that attack our headquarters with hammers, that is, because for that they do find time on the same day to release a warm support and a « Visca Arran! in the first committee in which they have the opportunity. But anyway... As I said, it is very rare that the CUP - Crida Constituent and the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans have points in common, but when we talk about our respective visions of how we can get there, how we can move towards a better, fairer and more opportunities society, it is that our positions are radically opposed. So I do not think it would surprise the honourable Member, Sirvent, because we do not have our support in this case either. And it's that they bring nothing new: criminalizing any company, just because it is; expropriating without any kind of compensation – common, read the good: without any kind of compensation –; municipalizing until it makes no sense or until it's going to be expensive for citizens... In short, measures that for me are a real mistake and a real setback and that little or nothing helps to advance on equal opportunities, and much less on the freedom of citizenship. What we need is to create jobs and wealth; that is the way, or we will have nothing to redistribute. And if you want to start by cutting back on your duel, well, it seems phenomenal to us, it seems perfect to us. We have heard here a thousand times criticizing the salaries of the people put to the finger, some very concrete; some for whom the discount should not be 14_per_cent, not even 99,9_per_cent, because it would be short; some for which you have casually put no glue. We were talking this morning, for example, about Mr. Adam Majó, who is an old acquaintance of his. And, on the other hand, you have agreed here budgets for which we asked to include a 10_per_cent reduction in the overall, in all the salaries of the high offices, a reduction that was not accepted, and you also accepted the budgets, approved them. If you want a discount, then defend where you play and when you have the chance. We were planting a 10-per-cent discount that we also don't think it has to affect everyone alike. In some cases, I say to you, neither 14 nor 99,9_per_cent would be enough, because many directly remain, but there are others, however, who do not charge those millions and who assume enormous and professional responsibilities, in hospital management, in emergency management or in many other fields. It is difficult to find the – in that I give you the reason – with the amount of fingers that exist today, without attending to either merit or capacity, because it is difficult to find the professionals who do their job well. It is hard to find them too because in Catalonia we are champions not only in high wages, but also in number of plugs. And in Catalonia we're champions, but we recognize that it's not just a problem here. Indeed, the latest change of government, the Sánchez Government, was the most recent example of fingertips on all sides. And that is why we have also introduced in Congress a law that seeks to end all those fingers that occur in every change of government, to end the fat that surrounds our public administration. That's all right. We need more professionals and less plugged into our institutions. That is one of the most profound reforms we want to carry out in order to put an end to the bad practices that have taken us forty years of bipartisanship and we hope to start implementing it very soon, starting on 28 April. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.172.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and in order to fix her position, the MP Alicia Romero, of the PSC Group and Units for Progress, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.173.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors and counselors. Miri, Sirvent, the year 2017, you prioritized the construction of the republic and prioritized independence. And when they agreed with that government formed by Convergence and the Republican Left, they put this on the table. I suppose they also had the social elements or the social themes to defend, but they were not covert, in those assumptions to which you gave the yes, the year 2017, to incorporate them: 30_percent reduction of university taxes, financing of schools Bressol, reduction of other charges, tax reform. There was a lot of things that you have in your mind, it's true, and that you proposed, but they didn't fit into that assumption for 2017. They gave an opportunity to that government, which obviously, therefore, deceived them, because, after that, they did not give them the opportunity again and, now, you prioritize social. We would have liked it if we had always prioritized it, because it was clear that the creation of a state was impossible. And so, today, now, they bring us a young man, well, that some fears we could share, conceptually we could agree, but it seems to me that you could have done a lot more strength and succeeded when you had the opportunity to incorporate all these measures into a presupposition and you didn't have to do it. Miri, then there are some populist elements, aren't there? In this young man. Clearly, we are talking about other areas; we are talking about other areas in general, so first of all, we do not like what we need to see or what we need to have is a public directive statute, which we would already like this government to have pushed it, in fact, the Socialist Group and Unites per Avance long enough to ask for it in different motions and has approved, but we do not see this statute. We will see, then, who are the conditions that are established for these directives at the time of incorporation into public office, because we believe, therefore, that if there is no need for them, they must be prepared, they must be trained, they must have experience, they must have certain functions... If we do not say no, it is true that there should be much better and much more transparent selection systems. Anyway, at that moment, you didn't get it either. Miri, in matters of public contract, now, that we are in the process of the Law of service contracts to the people, we are going to repeat it for a long time, that is that the legal form does not guarantee the quality of the services, neither the legal form nor who provides them... That is, the provision of the service, if it is in one way or another, that is, the legal form, if it is a cooperative or a company, that is not guaranteeing us the quality. The quality we have to guarantee through the departures of conditions. That is where we must establish our emphasis, our emphasis, if we want that company, social entity, cooperative to complete certain social clauses. And one very important thing: now that the price is not uplifting, after the approval of the state law in November 2017, therefore, escort'm, we incorporate quality elements in the competitions, so, therefore, those companies that manage entities of the third sector, cooperatives, etc. completing with quality; so ask you. It's the best we can do. And now that we have a law in hand, so I recommend that the deputies of the CUP and, in this case, the deputy servant, putting it... so we're putting it in this line, because I think that where it's to be incorporated is to the law. We need to incorporate elements so that social clauses appear in the competitions, because after a very important thing is that we have control measures and follow up on these contracts, which is that many times, therefore, does not happen in all these processes. And, therefore, I would like, therefore, that transparency in public contracts brought us to quality and we were able to seek quality and put the city at the centre of our speech and not so much the legal form of how that service is provided, which for us, therefore, is not the most important. Now, we need to focus on the departures of conditions, because there are no things that we've seen in a lot of meetings. Later, you talk a lot about remunicipalization. I repeat, that I managed a municipality does not mean that it is better and, therefore, we want to guarantee quality. If a municipality wants to remunicipalize a service, which it does, but it has a municipal autonomy, you know about it, so listen, if a joint decides, it will do it, it will seek resources to do it, it is the one who has to decide it. We do not believe that this should be a generalist speech, that is, who thinks that you should internalize some of the services to manage them directly, that you do it and that I do not consider it, that you do not do it. Now, what we do need to do through the law is to see how we put in the mechanisms because the departures are more social, it's better values of quality and we can do a much tighter control and follow-up of contracts. So I'd like to, so we could be a little bit more rigorous in this young man. We cannot give support to most points, but obviously we will continue to work there as close as, for example, in this piece of law, to advance on the line that also, conceptually, appears in this young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.174.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Next is the turn of Congressman Lucas Ferro, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.175.0	Just to clarify one thing, it is not a shame to vote in favour of a trusted motion in this Parliament or to call elections, Mr. Counsellor. What's a shame is that the Squad Mosses are accompanying Desokupa to call families without housing alternatives in this country. [[Greetings.]] That's a shame, and I'd have to give him a shame face. It's a shame that she's with a family that can take out the underage in a decoy and take advantage of the door to carry against the family. [[Greetings.]] That's a shame, and I'd have to give him a shame face. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Miri, for us... call me talking, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.176.0	Mr. Iron, Mr. Iron...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.177.0	Shut up. Respect the word, man, that's not his home. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Respect the word tower!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.178.0	Mr. Iron, Mr. Iron... [[Widow's remorse.]] Members of Parliament and Members of the Government, order. Mr. Ferro, I continued, but I intend to maintain a sense of respect for the members of the Government. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.179.0	Of course I do. Miri, for us, governing is, above all, three things. The first is to serve as a public vocation, not to use or parasitize institutions. And the problem is that the same government that closes the door to recovering public services, to making an expansive assumption that it will benefit and to a fiscal reform that makes the fiscal system of Catalonia come together more to a democratic state and that it will benefit that Spain that wants to build Mr. Abascal, Mr. Casado and Mr. Albert Rivera, or the same government that hides from every proposal to benefit that we put it on the table in the lack of resources, the same government that does this assumes the Public Administration as a warship: 18_million_i_mig euros in trust funds linked to Esquerra Republicana, 17_million_mig euros in trust funds linked to Juntas per Catalunya, is a shame that the government that closes the box to all of people in trust funds linked to a trust fund for Catalonia, is a shame that the government in trust funds is better than any other government in my country. But the problem is not only ethical, it is also democratic. The government is underprivileging its institutions and underprivileging Catalonia's democratic will. It is a shame as much as this Parliament and, today, it has not been an exception. The Government of Catalonia lives in the center of the people's will. It has not presented any assumptions; nor has it applied the tax reduction that was approved in this Parliament and that has expelled two thousand young people from Catalan universities; it manifestly does not complete the Law of Climate Change; we are still waiting for the plan of shock against the masculinist rapes; it does not complete the funding approved in this Parliament of schools in Bressol, from the viewpoints; it is shameful the institutional degradation and abandonment to which you have advocated the citizenship of Catalonia. And lastly, in a situation of social and democratic crisis, it is not possible to occupy a government without a country project; it is not certain who is going through, year-long commitment. You've lost your way to Catalonia. Catalonia has a great deal of country, has the most indebted institutions of its history, we have to see how 155 of our institutions have intervened, and we see as the same government less, less feeding the enemies of Catalonia and the enemies of self-government. Catalonia has fronts of present and fronts of future without unfolding, of how we build a model of well-being after a decade of austerity, of how to fight against the chacra masclista, of how to give answer to the climate change, and you don't give answer to back from country more than that which can improvise with symbols and propaganda. That's a shame. Rule the Marxin. They're at the height of Catalonia or resign. Respect this Parliament or call elections. Catalonia does not deserve the institutional degradation and abandonment to which you are submissive and, sooner or later, it will come to light. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.180.0	Finally, it is the turn of Congressman Santi Rodríguez, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.181.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselors, counsel..., I, if I haven't missed it, have been debating a motion from the People's Unity Candidature, which, if the title, surely, doesn't have much to see with the content was about the plan of government and political culture. I'm saying because there's been some intervention... not just one, a pair, that I've been misled in relation to the contents of the same young man. But, look, this late, we feel extraordinarily generous about this CUP motion and we will vote against it. And we do this a lot from generosity, sincere generosity, huh? Because I believe that you are grateful that we are obviously voting against everything that is municipal, expropriation, all public, private, private criminalization, criminalization of private businesses, criminalization of the bank, the model of the republic that someone was talking about, which is a model of the Bolivarian Republic, which is what you defend and which we obviously do not share. But then there is another part of the motion that we have had doubts and we have been tempted to vote for it, in favour of it, to abstain and so on, because it is pointed out that the demand is to complete the law and say: "Ostres, and you will vote against some points that you deserve to present the UPC, that the demand is to complete the law? Say: "Home, yes, do them the favor of voting them - that is against because imagine 'that they approve and are forced to complete the law. Well, then, as the laws say, as the contracts are to be monitored, as the law of transparency is to be completed, as sanctions are to be imposed on those who do not complete the law, we will not vote for them, because it does not have to be said by the Parliament, the laws are already said, and therefore it is to be completed and, moreover, we are doing you the favor. Someone said: "This is a youth with popular measures. And then someone corrected it, they're measures... they're not popular, they're populist, right? And of course, they're populist measures, because you're talking about cutting down on everybody. How much? 14_per_cent. Why? « Ah, I don't know. 14_per_cent. We reduce everyone, but then they come to defend themselves that they are reduced to the trust funds and, instead of the youth, they talk about trust funds, instead. They talk about the directives, they talk about the high management, they talk about the deputies, they talk about the Parliament..., but instead they talk about possible and trusting charges. So, I understand that, here, there's been some confusion. Therefore, I insist on this generosity. We'll vote against them all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.182.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the papers presented, has the paragraph the deputy Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.183.0	Look, we're talking to them with a very tall head, with the conviction that we're doing a political task for the people and that we didn't come here to take over the fall. We will always be on the side of popular movement, with social justice, with disobedience, with unilaterality, facing the repression of the State and also with all the anti-repressive solidarity. This is our strategy. Our strategy is to stand on the side of the sovereign movement, not send the Mosos to repress social movements, to repress the anti-feixist movement and to repress the sovereign movement. We understand your frustration, we know that you know that you have failed, and that is why you use this tactic of infantilizing us, of telling us utopians, of telling us that you do not know how to rule. But we govern, and where we govern, you know what we've done? We have raised captives, captives of corruption cases in which all of you are involved, Republican Left and Together for Catalonia, the new Convergence. What you're going through is that they don't want to lower their bills, they don't want us to tax them, they're still in the opacity of the slips: 18_million euros they've shared in trust, in Republican Esquerra, and 17, in Junts per Catalunya. That's what they agreed to. That's what the unit is for you. For us the unit is to be at the side of the backs of the collection. And here we were the 30th generation, in the investiture of your candidate, and you weren't there, you didn't occupy your escons by the end of the investiture of the candidate with the most recollection there was in this chamber. We, with a very high head, can say that we make a clear, transparent political task, that we know everyone, and therefore we will continue to defend it, we will continue to go to all the municipalities to raise captives and defend ourselves in front of the cacicos and the corrupt « sociovergents, which are now the new Left and the new Juntas for Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.184.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate is over, we'll proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. Separate voting petitions? Any groups? [[Pause.]] No, no, [[Long break.]] All right, let's get to the vote, then. If there are no separate voting petitions, we will vote on the joint motion in a single vote. The vote begins. This young man was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 116 against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the comprehensive approach to sexual rape against children]] [[302-00084/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the comprehensive approach to sexual rape against children, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. To expose it has the word Mrs Marta Ribas. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.185.0	Fifteen days ago, at the inquiry on this subject, I told them that one of the five people in Catalonia suffered some kind of sexual rape during their childhood. This week they're hitting us with two press releases. The two foundations that pay full attention to victims of minor sexual abuse in Catalonia report that they are overflowing with cases that require immediate therapy but the waiting lists are more than a year old. Ahir appeared to the press another victim of sexual abuse of the marists. In the face of this brutal reality, how is it possible that we follow without an integral strategy of government and country to end this slaughter? This was the central theme of the inquiry and is the central theme of the motion we have today. It's a topic that hasn't been discussed enough, it's a topic that hasn't been studied enough? No, no, There are repeated reports, from the Synod of Greuges, from Save the Children, from other entities of childhood; there is work done for this very Parliament and for the Government, even. All this work is where the dots of this young man came from. What we need to do is act effectively, forcefully, courageously, from now on, to attack a sacre like this on the ground and with public policies. State laws, to eliminate the prescription of crime, to explain what our own laws say, to call obligatory protocols to compliment all public services, paid with public money, and penalties for those that do not comply; to train, support, raise awareness, and urgently activate the integral recourse of detection and complaint and treatment that must be the cases of infants. I gave them to the inquiry fifteen days ago: we are not at the time of pilot plans, we are not at the time of study; we are at the time when these measures are already being applied. Therefore, we do not need parliamentary study commissions to know what needs to be done. We know, they've already told us a thousand times, what to do: what it is to complete what this young man says, which is a summary of everything that has already been reported to us on numerous occasions in this Parliament. On the other hand, we have a committee of inquiry, a committee that investigates cases that have been reported of abuse in the education system, schools, schools, schools, in our country, where the safety of children is guaranteed by the public administration and where there can be neither normalized nor silenced that is incomplete with basic human rights. That is why we propose that we create a commission of inquiry, to silence, to clarify responsibilities, but also to provide a minimum public recognition remedy to most victims of these abuses, who cannot go to court because their case has prescribed. As requested by the support manifest to the survivors of the Maristes case, which has already signed FAPAC, Groga Assembly, unions of the teaching sector or Save the Children, among other organizations, and more than five hundred people to individual title – I certainly greet the people who promoted it and who are accompanying us today – which is a commission of inquiry. Therefore, today, in this House, we are voting for many measures of all kinds, transversal, to attack from this moment on this scourge of sexual rape against children, but we are also voting to create a commission of inquiry, to put light in the dark, to repair the dignity of victims who have no more way than this and to signify, if there has been no, errors and responsibilities, because we can only raise captives to ensure that these other measures that include this young man, to apply in the present and in the future, can be successful and are not applied on a pantanous or tangled land. To make it easier to support this point, I make a statement in voice about point 2; I withdraw the religious word from the writing. Therefore, with the thought, the point would remain: "The Parliament expresses the commitment to promote a commission of inquiry into sexual rapes reported to educational spaces in Catalonia. Here we vote 135 Members and Members, and each and every one of us must be aware of what it means to be done. We voted today that the Parliament would use its investigative capacity to help break the silences that have covered the abuses against children and young people in our country's schools. To whom do you intend to vote that I do not – I do not say this to the groups, I say this to the Members and Members – I demand that you explain to whom or what you have for. And to whom do you wish that I claim consistency, and that after approving this point we do this commission, and therefore sign the document that would actually create a commission of inquiry in this Parliament, and that during months we are trying to sign it by other groups, and that no one has yet liked to do it. Therefore, I hope that the whole House will approve, I hope that Parliament will approve that a committee of inquiry is to be set up, but after the complaint coherence: we believe it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.186.0	Congresswoman, thank you. [[Greetings.]] To defend the papers presented, has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Units per Avançar, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.187.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this young man who presents Catalonia to us today in Comú Podemos, we are very, very much in agreement, with all the young man, except for a point that I will talk about later. I believe that it is obvious that our parliamentary group is not only convinced and fighting against sexual abuse, but that some of the things that are in this House, such as the Organic Law against rapes against infants, at the state level, have not been presented, but it will be presented in its own legislature, but the content is known, and this very law also goes back to extending the limits of the prescription of crimes, and therefore with many of the contents we agree. We also approve a number of points that we have already approved in other motions in this Parliament: it is three months ago and the issue of the model of children's homes, which we have already adopted in the Parliament of the Child, we have put on the table; the campaigns of dissemination in the media; the deployment of the LDOIA, things that we know the government will not complete, but that, therefore, it is well that they follow in a parliamentary motion that will surely come forward. But, I insist, this is not a guarantee, as we saw a few hours ago, that a Member approved by a majority of this Parliament is done and is brought to an end. Just remember that we have posed the fact that the interdepartmental committee for monitoring and coordinating existing sexual abuse protocols is meeting every three_months. I say it because, of course, now everyone wants to... : No, no; we have to fight sexual abuse, and so on. We have the committees, we have the protocols, and they don't meet. From the year 2016! I am saying this because there are also some who give pit copies at the time of defending sexual abuse and do not use the mechanisms that we have at these times – and which this House approved to gather every three months. We are voting, yes, against the introduction of point 14, on the introductory part of point 14, because we think it is very risky to propose the closure of hospital units of experts on sexual abuse issues until we know what the impact of the model of children's homes is, huh? And, therefore, this is the only objection that we would make to this young man. As for the committee of inquiry, let's celebrate the change of time, from the point of view of the emena in voice that will, I suppose, be produced in a few moments. It seemed to us that to do a commission of inquiry only on the sexual abuse reported in the religious school environment was to have a much reduced view of the real problem of the sexual abuse of minors in Catalonia. We considered that we should extend it to all sexual abuse, it is produced in the field that it is produced. Finally, it is no longer about sexual abuse, but it is about reported sexual rapes – it seems that we will not study them – in the educational sphere. Okay. Although we have been pleased that it was in all spheres, we will not get caught, at the celebration of this commission. Surely we can bring in the leaders of the Teaching Council at the time of the Marists, at those times, to know what happened, or of other councils, since, as it is in the educational sphere, the Government will be able to give the explanations that you consider appropriate. And why do we want them bigger? So why one_of_each_five people who have suffered sexual abuse has suffered it during their childhood; why eight_of_each_of_the abusers are in the family environment and in the trust environment, not only in the educational sphere; why according to Save the Children set_of_each_of_the sexual abuse of minors in Catalonia never before in court, and why in the conjunction of Espanya only 15_per_cent of the schools where the child has reported assaults communicates it to the authorities. Therefore, sexual abuse is much wider. I'm done. We celebrate, as I said, the change of positioning. As we believe that this is a broad theme, we recorded, diluns, with the gathering of Junts for Catalonia, Esquerra Republicana, Ciutadans and the Popular Party, the creation of a study commission, which we maintain, because we want to expand the study. We don't just want to investigate, we want to expand, if we really want to solve our mechanisms of detection and approach to sexual abuse. And, therefore, we shall have two commissions. All right. And I celebrate, finally – and with this end – the change of criteria by the groups that give recollection to the Government, because I remember that on October 6, 2016, in those moments Junts per el Si voted against characterizing himself as a popular accusation to the judges of the Marists; against, two times, in just three minutes. If this is needed to change the criteria, congratulations and welcome are forthcoming. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.188.0	Thank you, Congressman. Mrs Munia Fernández-Jordan, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.189.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, good afternoon. This motion brings the pain to Parliament today; the most intense pain that can be occurring right now in any corner of Catalonia. Let's not close our eyes. The data is frightening, they splash on our faces and they must reach our hearts. This motion brings concrete measures to protect children from pain, sadness, darkness, and abjectness. We support her. That is why we support her and for two more reasons. The first of them, if I may, is deeper, more humane, more ethical, mainly because it speaks of the important, and we dare to say that of the most important: of childhood. It is true that when we talk about sexual abuse we always use the word 'infancy', but we actually claim: they are boys and girls, often very small, who are subjected to the most atrocious things we can imagine. It is necessary to claim the words in order to frame the debate well. Children are said to be the future. Yes, but they are much more than that: they are the absolute present; surely they are the best of the present. His arrival is our revolution. They are hope, they are comfort, they are equity many times, they are the look; the look, which often gives us the answer to many questions that adults have. That is why they are the priority. The absolute priority in this chamber should be children. The second of the reasons why we are going to support the motion brought by the commons today is more political and more legal as well. There is a maxim in Roman law that says: "He who can the most can the least. Clearly, if we have brought this law to Parliament, a law for the prevention and treatment of child abuse, which of course includes sexual abuse of children, we can support this motion. Now, we also have to say that we think it is a patch, because we understand that the model with which this social drama should be addressed is the law. We have brought it to Parliament twice. The first has been blocked in the previous legislature. And next week we've learned that he's going to debate himself. Well, serve this intervention to ask all groups to take this law forward courageously. It will not be our law, it will be a law of the whole Parliament. [[Greetings.]] The aim of this law is to promote cross-cutting measures. Measures of prevention, detection, complaints, protection of families, and local and effective care centres themselves are addressed. And do you know why we have raised the law? Because what's now is a shame. It is not only that the Law on the Rights and Opportunities of Children and Adolescents, LDOIA, has not been deployed since 2010 that there are real contradictions. What is the unique record for child abuse is an order of 2007 and has not yet been developed. On questions from this group in 2017, the Government said that soon, as if it were a movie on the billboard – soon. To a PR, Mr. Torra's party voted against. That is the framework in which we really find ourselves now. In the face of a global problem, which colleagues have commented on with data, in the face of these broken lives, we give inoperation. And this can't be. Let's move that law forward next week. Let's all get to it. It dignifies the situation, gives greater rank to the problem, and makes it known, which is fundamental. And above all, most importantly, it opens these carpets to the people who have to talk to us about it, to the people with whom we have to empathize to really know the dimension of the problem. And through this we can give a solution; empathizing and knowing it from the testimonies and from the professionals who help solve the broken lives of all these people. In his cause is the dignity of all. With a law on child abuse that addresses this problem deeply, we may have a better answer for so much pain. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.190.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jenn Díaz has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.191.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies and deputies, this motion and the inquiry of the past Ple come a little – said the company – motivated by the inquiry and the motion on the Pla against rapes at the educational centers. This more transversal look was planted, because with our young man it seemed that there was not enough. And in discord, let's say. The young lady, the plan of the department that Councilman Bargalló was engaged in was not incompatible with this cross-sectional view in the approach of rapes against minors. The good thing about this is that the vote that we will take on these fifteen points, with all its sub-points, are mostly favourable, except for one abstention and two votes against which I will try to explain to the extent of my intervention. This confirms, as I said, that presenting to Parliament the plan promoted by the Department of Education was not only not incompatible with the interdepartmental work of the Government, but was already contemplated. Most of the papers have not been accepted, and, despite that, we are voting for it, because there is a compromise, because it was expected, or because it is directly ingled. Getting more into the voting points, we think there was a bar a little chaotic between public, concerted and religious. And we bet that we don't differ and that's why we prefer to talk about educational centers, because the debate doesn't focus on who does the abuse, but on repairing victims. And in the end we have found ourselves, we have withdrawn the religious word and, therefore, we will vote in favour of this committee of inquiry, with all our compromise. Following the order, advance the vote of point 3, which we will abstain from, I will explain why. Because we're talking about a state law. And it seems to us that the debates in the Parliament of Catalonia must be conducted with full sovereignty, with full autonomy, and we clearly want specific measures; but it is not close to us. Therefore, it would be more soon a point more political than ideological or substantive. What is close to us is to study how we can make our laws at risk that the Constitutional Court wants us to consider in every social law we propose. But we didn't give up. With respect to point 4, completely agreed. The right to a complaint must not depend on the time it takes or whether it is prescribed or not, it would only be absent, above all taking into account the conditions under which a person who has suffered abuse, at any age, or any kind of violence, makes the complaint. In the case of minors, it is even more pronounced. All those points that speak of "enhancing, "awareness, "reviewing, "unifying, "regular, " giving, we will find and vote all in favour, despite the fact that, as I said, most of the papers have not been accepted. And I'll have a moment at 13th. We have proposed a proposal to introduce the pilot plan and it has not been accepted, because it says Mrs Ribas that we are not in time of pilot plans. No problem. But I'd like to clarify that there's already a, a pilot plane in Tarragona, and that the government has already set up, and that's why it seemed to us that putting this thing on this plane was a way to assess the situation, despite the fact that you consider that all this work is already done. The other point against affects Salut, at point 14. We proposed to review and adapt, instead of closing, and to differentiate between children's homes and the integrated unit of care for child and adolescent victims of abuse. If what is asked is that the children have multidisciplinary spaces and do not contribute to their re-victimization, we agree and will have it precisely in this unit that is planned for September 2019. And that's why we're voting against it, because we didn't accept the slogan. Just two more tips. At the new point of City we would also vote against it, because the work of the legislature is not to approve the decrees before passing through the execution and, therefore... this is to rule. And, therefore, we will vote against it, not because this rule is not to be deployed, because the department is already doing so, but because we believe that this is part of the executive and not part of the legislature. And finally, respecting the committee of inquiry, it was already advanced that we would vote yes, that it will not be for the Republican Group, that we will vote for it, only on one condition: and with the compromise to do so from respect and rigour – that I think we will all find it in this – and we therefore commit ourselves not to turning the committee of inquiry into a morbid space, to do an accurate treatment, as the victims deserve. And we ask that no one make a political partyer of this commission, because it suits us all, and above all the victims. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.192.0	On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of MP Imma Gallardo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.193.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Counsellor, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, and the public you are accompanying us today. In the past we already wanted to be able to debate a Republican Group motion on the protection of children in educational centres. Today, the Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos presents to us a motion that deals with sexual rapes towards children and needs to address them in a comprehensive way. The same Member of Parliament Ribas gave us a full argument in the question that she gave this young man a place. From Juntes per Catalunya we are totally in agreement that, as has already been demonstrated in other countries, we can face this problem so difficult from an interdepartmental action, so that, in the most coordinated way possible, we can give the most effective answers. In fact, we agree with most of the young lady's points, although we may not share any of her views. We totally agree that an integral strategy, based on prevention, detection, action, but also in the treatment of these victims. We agree that we have many more tools to detect sexual abuse, sexual rape, because, if not, they will hardly be able to avoid it. The data are gross. Infants who suffer abuse suffer from mid-term abuse for four years, because their adult environment does not have the necessary tools to detect this sexual violence nor does it know what to do before a child who may be showing that he or she has suffered it. And here we find both family members and professionals from different sectors. All this without oblivion that eight_of_each_abuses are given in the same family's if. We also agree that we need to improve the sexual and emotional education of our infants and young people. And so, from Juntes to Catalunya, let us again propose that sexual, affective and, again, stress, emotional education also begins with child education, so that it is reviewed and expanded the formation of all professionals, incorporating these new elements. In the same way, it seems very important to review, standardize and regulate legally the existing protocols in the various areas related to child sexual rape, so that they are compulsory compliments decrees to all centres where there are minors, having the title that they have. Our concern, our contribution, just went in this direction, noting the obligation of compliment on the part of all the centers but without penalizing neither the spaces where they are given nor the different collections, but the presumed criminals; not the places or the collections, that is to penalize the people who act wrongly. Finally, we also consider it very important that the pilot plan of the integrated unit of care for children and adolescents victims of abuse, which, as the same advisor El Homrani said, will improve the response to sexual abuse and other abuses at different levels. And all this, starting from a model of close collaboration between the different departments involved, which is this model that we also share, the Barnahus model, where the key is that the victim, from the first revelation to the end, has a treatment of psychological support, but that is sometimes found with a friendly, friendly space for children and adolescents, where they are the ones and professionals who are displaced to attend to the minor and not to the unrevealed, and thus avoid one of the aspects that we are so concerned about, that is this circuit: police, hospital, jutjat, DGAIA, because, as has been reported many times by entities working with infants and young people, it is a circuit that is shown that it is perceptive to the minor. I also want to remind you that the same Parliament has already approved an institutional declaration to support victims of child sexual abuse, which was taken in this same chamber on March 6. We therefore agree with the statement made by Mrs Ribas. In summary, we will vote favorably on all points of the motion, except point 14 and 15, which we will vote unfavorably, and we will abstain on point 3, as Mrs Diaz commented. To thank her for the good work she's done, and to Congresswoman Ribas, too, for the predisposition. And, finally, and with the will to bring a light of hope before so much darkness, modestly they would like to recommend the book that is said The ugly ducks: resilience: an unhappy childhood does not determine life, the neuroleg, psychiatrist and psychoanalyst Boris Cyrilnik. For him the concept "resilience", which does not exist in the RAE dictionary, which goes from the point of view and which means "rejuvenating, is the ability to be human to recover from trauma and, without being marked for life, to end up feeling happy. I also want to especially thank the very important task that entities like Save the Children or Mans Petites do, to name a few, in defense of the rights of our children and young people. I ended up encouraging each other to do everything possible from respectful areas of action because ideological conditioning is not an obstacle to achieving this shared goal and aimed at eradicating rape and child sexual abuse. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.194.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix his position, is the return of the deputy Vidal Aragonès, on behalf of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.195.0	Yes; Vice-President, to speak from the escó. In the first place, we wanted to make two planned plans, thank you. First of all for the entities, associations and families of the scoundrel, our infants, who have suffered, who have suffered rapes of a sexual nature. It is difficult to address a situation such as they are living and they have hardly done so bravely that we are talking about this in this Parliament today. And second of all, for the proposed group. This is a complete motion, with fourteen, fifteen points, and it addresses multiple policy proposals, since the complaint, going through interdepartmental and cross-cutting policies, and also for the formation of the infanthood in sexual education, something so necessary, and above all for the establishment of a commission of inquiry, which, we already say, is the same as it is with the reference of religious or religious sense, it is the same as it is with other references, such as there is a complaint or there is no complaint. For us today, the important thing is to vote for this committee of inquiry positively, and then we'll talk about it, because it's making the best of it. That said, we may have incorporated some other questions: more presuppositional fulfillment, there is a reference to the Observers of the Rights of Childhood, but we think it has been more important than it can be approved that not all presuppositional fulfillment. And so is the model. You already know that we are betting on a management and a public provision of one hundred per cent, and it could also have been done. And the next question is what we want to make reference to: the transaction of Point 1 – and we don't give the toilet to the proposed group, which has certainly done it with all good intent, but to whom has laid the transaction. What a problem you see in this Parliament for not wanting to especially condemn religious centers, what a problem! Do not understand, some, in this Parliament, that they are making a vow of obedience; all the contrary: they are causing wrong the persecution of the settlement and the violence to our scoundrel. And to those who may worry about their own church..., they are also doing wrong, because they are preventing them from developing the best values of religions, which they all have, and they are reinforcing some ecclesial domes that they want is that we don't talk about this and that we don't pursue it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.196.0	Ladies and gentlemen who are in the public gallery, I see myself in the obligation to remind them that they cannot show approval or disapproval of Members' interventions. Thank you. Finally, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. And the word is MP Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.197.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, sexual abuse is a form of abuse of power; it is a form of abuse of power that is worth secrecy and silence to repeat the ignominy of a child abuse. This makes the consequences much harder, and not only in time but psychologically, for those who suffer. Now, with all due respect to Mrs. Ribas, who already knows that you have, I think it's a great opportunity that we've lost. There was a commission that already had practically all the consensus of all the political parties, and reduce, fix's, huh? , reducing this only to the educated environment seems a mistake to me. And apart from the reason that he had his left-hand mantra from the concerted religious collèges..., well, they have removed the word "religions, but you, truly, honestly, with your heart to your hand, do you not think that precisely the abuse between the family is still more painful for a child or a child than even everything that is produced in the school? You think this doesn't deserve our attention? You, who knows, like me and like everyone else here, that silence – silence – is the barrier, it is the wall that does not allow victims of sexual abuse to overcome this trauma of childhood, you believe that silence will overcome in Room 2, in the Group Hall, with the circuit closed of television? I don't think so – I don't think so. I think we need to get back to politics not only with feeling but also with a certain rationality and respect, respect for feelings. Despite that, we will vote in favour, you know. We'll put all the effort in, as we've always done, because these abuses stop happening, because the mechanisms work, by detection. There will only be a part of the motion that we cannot vote in favour, which is the one that is the automatic suppression of the concerted school; among other things, because we are not judges. Criminal responsibility is personal to those who are the perpetrators of abuse. Only the cover-up on the part of a col·legi would be merited by this withdrawal in concert. And that has to be decided by a judge and not a deputy. That said, we will not vote in favour of removing the detection units as you put them in number 14; but the rest, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.198.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the words of the proposed deputy, Ms Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.199.0	I think I'd need a quarter more time to explain everything I need to explain right now, but I'm going to try to be very brief. Yes; eight of each of your abuses are in the private, family environment. You're brutal. That's why there are fourteen of the fifteen points of this young man who came from this. There's one that doesn't – there's one that doesn't – because if anything allows the repetition of abuses is precisely silence. But there has been a type of abuse that has occurred in the public sphere, of public responsibility, of educational centres paid with public money, and that the public administration is complicit in this silence gives a bad example to civil society to break the silences also private. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, we believe that, if anything effective can do this Parliament itself now to collaborate in breaking the silences that allow this repetition, it is as if we were to act in that area of which it has an absolutely direct competence, which are the services paid with public money. Therefore, yes, to the religious educational centres, but we know where the cases have been – we know where the cases have been. And I want to respond to the issue of the units we claim to withdraw from Salvation. It's because of the questions. One, for a model question. If the model of children's homes applies, which is a single area of detection, reporting and full attention, why do we want to keep a space of detection only with a health perspective in hospitals if it is not to keep some – your words – "txiringuitos?" No, no, The model is the only space in which everything is given. Therefore, the others, once the children's houses work, must be closed. But that's not all there is. It is that the UFAM, to Sant Joan de Deu – let us come back to England –, with a perspective of gender much more than dubious, and reports of which, from this unit..., in numerous reports have generated important problems for families, until the case of barbarity that children have ended up in custody of abusive couples, from those reports with zero perspective of gender. We don't want to go on feeling like we're complicit in this. Counselor, so much for this unit, putting out the children's houses...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.200.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.201.0	Right away. President, ask that before you do the vote you read points 2 and 9.b. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.202.0	Did you ask for reading points 2 and 9...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Good. All right. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Okay. [[Widow's remorse.]] Vagina take possession of their escons in silence, if it can be. Separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Okay. I'll give them the word when I get the order back to the Session Hall. Mr. Aragonès, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.203.0	Yes; Vice-President, to ask for a separate vote from point 13.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.204.0	Point 13, all right. Any more separate voting petitions? Mrs. Granados, were you asking for the word? [[Pause.]] It was about that, I understand.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.205.0	By separate votes. The entrance to point 14.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.206.0	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.207.0	From 14th, the entrance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.208.0	The entrance. Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.209.0	The 14th has the 14th and the letter to. We want the entry to be separate votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.210.0	All right. Mrs. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.211.0	Yes, President. Vote separate from the letters in point 9, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.212.0	All of them away from 9th?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.213.0	Well, you can vote together on the a and c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.214.0	Has he and the c, together, and remains individualized?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.215.0	Well, it's just a, it's the b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.216.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.217.0	Is it possible?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.218.0	Or is it, would it be the a and the c together, and the b separately?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.219.0	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.220.0	All right; a i c, i b. All right. Mrs. Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.221.0	And add separate vote from point 3 and point 15.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.222.0	Point 3 and point 15. All right. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.223.0	All right. We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... [[Pause.]] We shall vote, first of all, on the points which have been asked to vote separately. We shall then vote on the joint motion, in which the points to which reading is to be given have been included. Therefore, when we vote on the remainder of the motion, we will read points 2 and 9.b, which, if I do not err, are those of which the previous reading has been requested. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. So, let's get to the vote. Let's vote, first place, point 3. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, 9b per se. Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Or go on, 9b, separate, not with the rest of the young man, huh? I was aiming for the rest of the young man. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, okay. In any case, we vote first on the third point of the motion. Huh? Point three of the show. The vote begins. The third point of the motion was approved by 64 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. Let's now vote on points 9.a and 9.c and 9.c. The vote begins. Points 9a and have been approved unanimously; that is to say, 124 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We are voting now on point 9.b, of which we shall read in advance. Therefore, ask Secretary Pérez to read it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.224.0	Point 9.b: "Establish control measures and follow-up of the application of these protocols so that failure to perform them entails consequences through administrative sanction to the centre that incompletes it. In the case of concerted educational centres, the consequence of a difficult incompliment must be the automatic suppression of the educational concert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.225.0	Start voting on this point 9.b. Point 9.b was approved by 106 votes to 10, with 7 abstentions and 1 Member not voting. Let's now vote point number 13 – point number 13 – of the motion. The vote begins. Point 13_has been approved by 121 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on the entry, the entry, of the 14th point – the entry, of the 14th point – yes? The vote begins. The entry for point 14 was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 115 against and no abstentions. We're voting point number 15. The vote begins. Point 15 was approved by 64 votes to 61, with no abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young lady now, right? But before we read point number two. We're voting on what's left of the young lady, but we're reading point number two. Secretaries, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.226.0	"The commitment to promote a commission of inquiry into sexual rapes reported to educational spaces in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.227.0	The vote on the remainder of the motion begins. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved; 125 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Perlongats applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the guarantee of freedom, effective equality and non-discrimination of LGBTI+ persons]] [[302-00085/12]] We follow the order of the day, and the twenty-one point is the motion following the question to the Government on the guarantee of freedom, effective equality and non-discrimination of LGBTI+ people, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, Mrs. Naomi of the Street has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.228.0	Good afternoon. I would like to begin by greeting the people who are following us from the rostrum, the entities present, the Casal Lambda, and especially the representatives of the Observers against the Homofòbia, whom I would like to thank for their collaboration and willingness during these weeks of work. In Citizens we are strong advocates of the advancement of individual freedoms and in recent months we have observed alarmed the increase of aggressions to the LGBTI collective, aggressions like that which yesterday suffered Julia, a transgender woman at the exit of the metro of Paris, whose images overwhelmed us all. Untolerable attacks that also occur in Catalonia. Aggressions are the most brutal manifestation of hatred and discrimination, but the reality is that discrimination is manifested in many ways and affects our society at levels where it may go unnoticed by being normalized. Eliminating discrimination is not an easy task because it means changing in many cases the culture and vision of the world that has been dominant for centuries. But experience shows that it is possible to promote a culture of human rights and to bring down stereotypes and prejudices so that no one is excluded from the possibility of carrying out their project of life in freedom. In this motion, which is very extensive, we call for the implementation of resolutions tabled by Citizens, adopted in this Parliament, and which are still pending their implementation by the Government, which propose to answer important questions such as the socio-laboral reality and the social and health care of transgender people, which as they explained this Tuesday in the Equality Commission, from the i-Vaginarium entity, are faced with many deficiencies in the accompaniment before and after transit. We were even told that in some cases they had been invited to leave the gynecological consultation because they were not considered women by the doctor. And these cases show that professionals still need a lot of training. That is why it is very important that there is a genuine body coordinating the LGTBI policies, which will ensure the proper training of the professionals concerned. We want to put the necessary tools in the hands of teachers to prevent bullying in schools and to guarantee the rights of LGTBI families, including those who have resorted to surrogate pregnancy, thus avoiding the discrimination of these children on the basis of birth. We want the visibility of doubly discriminated groups, as is the case with bisexuals. We want to work for the LGTBI memory, by recognizing the contributions of different lesbian women to art, music, culture, science and activism. We want to make pansexuals known and visible. That is why we call for the declaration of 8 December as International Day of Pansexuality. And now that, unfortunately, it seems that it is fashionable to distribute notebooks of good and bad feminists, from Citizens we want to end the exclusionary, transphobic and pathological discourses, such as that of the TERF movement, which are the collective of radical feminists trans-exclusionaries, which pretend to exclude trans-gender women from the feminist struggle. We want to ensure that the comprehensive victim care service is adequate, and that it includes a 24-hour telephone of specialized care, since most attacks occur on weekends and in leisure places. A protocol, too, for the security forces in dealing with complaints, and the recovery of the working group between the command of the Mossos d'Esquadra and the Observer against the Homofòbia, which stood still in the previous legislature, and which was working very well. We ask for restorative justice, because five years after the adoption of the law we still do not have the decree of the sanctioning regime. We also propose the creation of the work table that the observer demands to establish the necessary resources and mechanisms for the full implementation of the LGBTI Collective Rights Act, and to end the feeling of impunity of the aggressors. We have a law on the rights of the LGTBI collective to be proud of, which was a pioneer in Spain, which was a great social advance thanks to the work of many people who collaborated to move forward and do the possible. But for it to function as a transformative tool of society, we need the law to be properly deployed. In Citizens we are aware of the immense diversity of Catalan society, we are committed to defending that diversity because it enriches us all, and therefore we will not stop pressing until all the rights that this law contains become effective. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.229.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word Mrs Marta Moreta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.230.0	Hey, nice late. Counsel, deputies, deputies, people who accompany us, look, many of the contents that this young man deals with have debated and voted in this chamber, and have also debated and voted at different sessions of the Equality Commission. So what we're doing is repeating something we've already voted on. This young man may say that he is a young man of those we know popularly as a « lençol, because he is very long – he is very long – and without much content, because what this young man claims is, neither more nor less, than to do the deployment of the LGTBI Law. So, we don't have any contingencies in fem. We have an explanation of the law, which we have to do, and not the fem. And what do we do, the deputies and deputies of this chamber? Introduce, again, motions to see if once and for all this is done. In fact, I think it's very sad that we have to go through these motions and proposals for a resolution of a law that was approved here in Parliament by an absolute majority. So I think it would be unnecessary to do that. But what is obvious is that this law needs to be endowed with economic and human resources. And it's obvious that if this isn't there, it can't make that deployment effective. However, we agree that the contents of the motion presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group..., therefore, we agree. But if we look at a little bit of what is being asked of this young man, we can say that what we have already talked about several times has not yet been implemented, the rules of the sanctioning regime, which must facilitate the agility of the investigation and sanction processes derived from complaints of possible breaches of the law. We should remember that the Government of Catalonia has already approved the right of intervention in 2017, but it has no intention of approving the sanctioning regime, because we have said so many times. The lack of approval of the decree that has to regulate the sanctioning procedure previews for the law, as we explained... It's done, let's say they have a deleted fact, but there is no way to put it into operation. What's going on? Maybe there's no interest – I don't think so – or predisposition. Who's the argument not to approve this decree? It would be good if the Government, through the Councillor, could explain to us why it does not approve this sanctioning rule. We still don't understand it; let me explain it to us. In fact, it's obvious that people don't care or talk about this issue, because, when we're in the legislature, the councilman hasn't been able to compare himself to the Equality Commission of this Parliament since we started the legislature. I look at the deputies and deputies in how many committees this Parliament has not appeared to the councillor or councillor, to talk about women's issues; to the Equality Commission, I say. We could also talk about the failure of the agency to implement the LGTBI policy coordinator of the various departments of the Generality, an organization that must inform periodically in this Parliament about the social impact of the law and that does not do so. If it is true that, for example, the first European network of comprehensive, territorial and local services for LGBTI people has been created, in two years it has been in operation fifty SAIs. It's the half I was expecting, the half. Thirty locals have developed the LGTBI policy plan and made a diagnosis. Do you know how many locals are missing for a set of LGBTI policies? Nine-cents_disset. On the other hand, we believe that knowledge and dissemination of the protocols that prevent the specific bullying of the LGTBI in the educational sphere should be developed. As for the papers, first give thanks to Deputy Naomi of the Street, always with the predisposition to talk and reach agreements. We have traded various items, and so we appreciate it. Yes, but I would like to explain the sentiment of the vote on item 2.10, that we would vote against it, because there was a point that removed the aside that speaks of families and children who have resorted to subrogated pregnancy, and we wanted it to be swallowed. This will not happen, and therefore we will vote against it at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.231.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.232.0	Thank you very much. The month of generation we pushed in this very Parliament a statement where the attack suffered for the LGTBI Centre in Barcelona was denounced. The Observer against Homophobia, who also accompanied us today, declared two weeks ago his intention to present a monthly X-ray on the LGTBifóbia of Catalonia, since the number of recorded incidents rose alarmingly: one per day. These incidents, they say, are accompanied by such a feeling of impunity that they run the risk of becoming an epidemic. There are urgent measures: to deploy Law 11/2014 in its entirety; that the table that has been announced to establish mechanisms and necessary resources is now a reality, and that, as has already been said, to deploy the sanctioning regime. It is necessary to eradicate the LGTBIphobia of sport, of schools, of salvation, to ensure the integral attention of the transgender people of salvation. The other day we were able to attend a presentation of I-Vaginarium to the Commission of Igualtat, and I think that opened the eyes of which is the difficult reality that these people see and the zero support that they also have from public administrations. We will support the movement because in its general sense it went in line to protect and extend the rights to the LTGBI collection; in this they will always find us. Nevertheless, we must abstain from point 2.10, in which we presented a statement, because we believe in the equal rights of all families, because we believe in the best interests of the child, but we do not believe that it is in a motion of the rights of the LTGBI where we should speak of the surrogate pregnancy. We think they're afraid they don't have anything to be related to, and we didn't find you anywhere in this place. We will collect the other points, and from the opposition we will also accompany them in their follow-up. It would also extend the share of historical memory to the entire LGTBI community, apart from lesbian women. Some suggestions also affect emotional education from the first childhood, address visibility above all in communication media and address diversity in administration forms. We also believe that to compliment this young man's point it is very important to count and take over the LGTBI National Council, where we are and are the political entities and parties and where we have already set up working groups that work various themes, and one of the priorities, precisely, the development of Law 11/2014. Finally, I would like to ask the whole chamber that with the LGTBI rights we don't play, we don't play any of us, to remember that to deal with feisty parties is to give to hate speech, at a time when aggressions are growing with impunity. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, I want to express the recognition to the work of the deputy of the street putting this theme on the table continuously both in this plenary and in the Commission of Equality, to recognize its knowledge and its know-how and to ask it, if you please, to export this knowledge, to bring this knowledge and this visit and this focus to other places in the State where it seems that they do not have the same positions and that they have no problems in negotiating with forces that pose in danger the rights of the LGTBI community. I do not agree, please, with whom it threatens the basic freedoms of the LGTBI collection, neither now, nor here, nor anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.233.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rut Ribas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.234.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone, and a special greeting to the entities that are with us today. From the outset, it means that we appreciate the task for the street deputy, because we have been able to get to a good deal long enough to get to terms and deals with this young man. Luckily, it is a reality that we have advanced in the fight of the LGTBI collection around diversity, gender identity and sexual orientation. This is why it is very important to fill in all the work that has been done so as not to allow the violation of the rights of the collection. Even so, despite many years of struggle and the conquest of many rights, we continue to live in a patriarchal and schish society that continues to discriminate because of sexual orientation and gender identity. We all regret cases of collusion, which unfortunately in accounts of disappearing are still present on the street, in all spaces and in all areas. We cannot invisibly, on the contrary, we must break this silence and denounce all discriminatory attacks against the LGTBI collection, physical, psychic, verbal, directly or indirectly. And it's that the physical attacks right now are just the tip of the iceberg of all those violations and discriminations that the collection suffers. That is why all of us who are in this chamber do not fail to denounce any aggression and discrimination, whether you are from where you are or coming from, because you do not have a head in our society; but then, and grabbing the wire of Congresswoman Segovia, do not let go of those who do tolerate it. Law 11/2014_is to follow its course and enter all territories of Catalonia. This network works so that every day the LGTBI collection has its rights fully guaranteed in any of the areas that the Generality has competence in, and also all those in which it does not have: in the field of education, work, salvation, care for people, justice, culture and language, sport, public order, on the streets and on the streets, communication media and participation. To all and every one of them the rights of the collection must be fully guaranteed, and, in case they have been violated, denounce and give a strong response to any form of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity, and fight LGBTIphobia. This is why it is important to continue with the training of professionals in all these areas and thus to have all the necessary mechanisms and information to address any situation from the perspective of gender and sexual diversity. From educational centres and non-formal education it is essential to continue to introduce co-education and thus recognize the potentialities of all and each of the students, regardless of their gender, gender identity and sexual orientation, so that real equality of opportunity is guaranteed and discrimination between companies, male and female violence is prevented, risk behaviour reduced and premature detention of abusive relationships facilitated. In the field of salvation, it is necessary to give full attention to the whole collection, and in a special way to trans people, in the gathering and accompanying during the journey and the post-operator, and then to be treated according to what their gender is after the journey. This is why it is important to follow the territorial deployment of the new model of care to transgender people in a coordinated and collaborative way. And let me remind you that Counsellor Comín was the one who eliminated the psychiatric diagnosis to be authorized to make this sex change. Before I finish, I want to focus on a few concrete points and reflect on it. At the length of the motion, concrete projects are asked to be initiated, to which we will support them, but sometimes we also need a tool to be able to develop them, and, while they have tried to deny it at the length of this House, the assumptions do not only fall within the purview of the Government. On the other hand, we reject any discourses of discrimination, but we will not intervene in a discussion from arguments of entities. We will support all those points that the government already has on the way; and yet, the proposed group wanted to introduce it to the judge, because it is the law's deployment. Today we will not support the creation of a telephone number, as 112 is no longer in demand and available to professional staff to meet the demands of this point. And we will abstain from declaring the international day of pansexuality, only because the Generality does not have the competence to declare international days. In any case, as the company we have to be proud to have been captivated on many occasions and pioneers at the time of facing discrimination and at the time of preventing them. We demand a different and democratic society. That's why we want all the legal mechanisms to deal with the LGTBifobia chess and the full and effective deployment of the law. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.235.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Grupo Parlamentari Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mrs Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.236.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Advisers, advisors, deputies, parliamentary workers and guests of the people of Catalonia, in particular the members of the observer and the Lambda couple who are accompanying us today, when in 2014 this Parliament approved Law 11/2014 to guarantee the rights of the LGBTBI and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transfer, is a very important step in the recognition of the LGBTBI community and in the struggle for its rights, especially in the fight to end the discrimination and violence that affects them in this collection. It was, therefore, and as the street lady reminded her intervention, a pioneer law, which was approved unanimously and which makes us proud. This young man who presents Ciutadans today, we believe from Juntes per Catalunya that he pretends to be a touch of attention in order to finish implementing the development of the law, of a necessary law, and for this reason we will vote in favour of most of the points that count the motion, in most cases because of the respect for the government departments already working in which it is asked, while we are aware that it might be necessary to speed up its implementation. And that's why we think it's appropriate that Parliament – which is Parliament..., and it's one of the functions of Parliament – exercises control over the government and in any case does this attention to the proper development of this law that so much is missing from us. Some of the points that are being adopted are policies as essential for this Government as the eradication of LGBTI-fóbic pipelines in the world of sport or tools designed to prevent labour discrimination against transgender people. We are grateful to the Group of Citizens that they have accepted some of the ideas of our group..., well, that our group, together with the Group of Republics, we have presented and that they have ratified that the Government is working in such important matters as the effective protection of LGBTBI people, that they are at risk of being raped or discriminated against, or to guarantee legal and police assistance specialized in the different types of violence that the collection suffers. We will abstain, however, in two points, as Esquerra's companion commented, and reject two other points. As soon as we abstain, the establishment of the international day of pansexuality, has already told Esquerra's company that the Government of the present Generality does not have powers to declare international days, so we would need a government of a state and I believe that you are not in favour of this. And today it is especially important to approve the content of the motion, because unfortunately the rise of the extreme right to Spain..., not only to Spain, but the rise of the extreme right to Spain puts in danger the rights and freedoms of the LGBTI community. It is for this reason that I hope that you, and in particular the Member who brought the motion, who has a deep knowledge of the policies that are present here, do not allow this to be a pinkwashing exercise to continue to deal with Vox's ultrathreat, who wants to eliminate all the rights and guarantees that are defended here. I particularly welcome the point of the motion urged by the Government to ensure the full care of refugees, LGBTI refugees, above all because it is very well suited to the Pact against Xenophobia and Racism approved at the beginning of this week. And I particularly welcome it because its group, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, abstained in the Catalan Law that guarantees universal access to everyone's sanitation. Fortunately the law was approved. And, finally, I will highlight the point that urges you to enhance the historical LGTBI memory by mediating the recognition of the contributions of different lesbian women in different camps. Historical memory, you? [[The joker laughs.]] You voted against the modification of the Law of Historical Memory that claimed that the State assumed the location, identification and exhumation of more than a hundred_ thousand reprisals, many of them from the LGBTI community during the Civil War and Francoism, buried in common pits and wedges. They refused to withdraw the medals to dictator Franco, for example the municipal group of Calatayud. Or they voted against investigating the Francisco Franco Foundation. And now they govern Andalusia with the support of Vox, who wants to repeal all laws protecting against male violence, those protecting the LGTBI collection and, of course, the Law of Historical Memory, as well as good Franks who are declared to be. I don't think the records how the LGTBI collection was treated during the franchise. Memory is a contemporary image of the past. History is seen looking back, life, walking forward. But, as Søren Kierkegaard said, "life can only be understood by looking back, and in this looking back, we must be able to condemn, without ambiguity, the Francoism and the Francoists for everything they have done, and today especially for the deal they have given to the LGBTI community. Thank you very much, good afternoon. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.237.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the Member of the House of Commons has the word Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.238.0	Good afternoon. As has been said in the previous speeches, this young man is an impeccable young man, a young man with whom, for the most part, we are in favour and will vote in favour. First, because there are questions, as has already been said, that have already been approved in this Parliament, in the Committee on Equality, but that there is no way that they will be implemented, like so many other questions that we approve in this Parliament that remain in full play. Today we support this proposal by Ciutadans, but we also want to put forward a question that has already been said, right? To the contrary, and to ask us questions about how it can be that a young woman who generates such a broad consensus in a chamber as this is driven by a group that governs Andalusia with Vox, who basically opposes frontally the deployment of right-wing policies to the LGBT population, and we ask them with sincerity and frankness: is it all going to govern? Is it all going to come to power? And in this case we would like to be able to give explanations, because we actually read this motion and see the right-wing practices that Ciutadans is doing thanks to Vox, but also in many other questions. And that's why we're always looking closely at a type of movement like this when you're from Ciutadans, because we understand that the policies they're used to implementing don't have a universalizing or egalitarian character for everyone. We add, we said, a young lady we're on the right side. But we would like to focus on what is missing, and we would have liked to see you talking about an essential issue to hear about at the LGTBI, which is the intent of certain business, called the pink, which captures the possibility of developing non-heteronormative identities and practices outside of certain local octurnal locations, which makes it pay tolls and practice a class-based, race-based and gender-based scribble, not making spaces accessible to those who cannot pay or who do not fit the LGTB model that is being promoted there. This is also a form of exclusion and we commit ourselves to being able to speak more deeply about this issue in this plenary. We finish our intervention with accruing to the collectius, to the entities, to the people LGTB [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] that they fight and that they made the law possible and that they persist, persist and persist to make it possible to increase...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.239.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.240.0	...despite the fact that this government hasn't done it for so long.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.241.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperança García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.242.0	Yes; President, from the escho, please. Miri, in his time, in 2014– and I say this with great humility–, our group did not vote in favour of this law, on which this motion is based. And we wanted to do so for a lot of reasons, among other things the lack of opportunity to deploy all the contents that come with this rule: reversal, burden of proof and some points reflected..., in relation to the sanctioning regime. And now that we see this young man, what we have to say is that, above all, in his great part, we will give him recollection, despite the fact that there are some points that we do not like. It is also true that the same group proposing this motion to the Congress of Deputies has voted against provisions that contain this motion and that our current party is the only one that brings a special law to its general election program on the subject of the discrimination of the LGTBI collection. That said, it's true that there's a point that we don't... two points that we won't vote for, that we have to deal with the Social Service Portfolio and with surrogate motherhood, among other things, because surrogate motherhood isn't legal in Spain and, therefore, we won't give recollection or coverage to the fruits of this surrogate motherhood.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.243.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the name, finally, of the group proposing and to position itself on the exams, has the new word the deputy Mrs Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.244.0	Well, first of all, I would like to thank Members Marta Moreta, Susanna Segovia and Rut Ribas for their contributions to the motion, the good treatment and understanding in negotiating the amendments made, which could incorporate an important part of them into the motion, such as the one concerning HIV prevention and care of the Socialist Party, and all the contributions of Esquerra and Junts per Catalunya that did not lower the demands of the motion. Mrs Segovia and Mrs Madaula and Mrs Sánchez, do you know who constantly gives wings to certain parties? You guys spend the day with Vox in your mouth. That's what it's like to give wings. [[Widow's remorse.]] And Mrs Segovia also referred to our training in other parts of Spain. If you refer to Andalusia, for the umpteenth time, the only party with which you have agreed Citizens is the PP, and do you know what we have done in Andalusia? Do you know the policies we pursue where we govern? For something that in forty years in democracy had never been done in Andalusia, which is the creation of an Andalusian council LGTBI and a general management LGTBI. That's what we do in other parts of Spain where we rule. [[Greetings.]] Deputy Ribas and Madaula, at the request of a motion for a resolution presented by Citizens in the last legislature it was approved to celebrate the Day against Homophobia in Sport with the favorable vote of their parties. We do not ask the Generalitat to create the International Day of Pansexuality, because it already exists and if they don't know it they can look for it – it already exists. What we ask is that you celebrate it to give visibility to this group. With regard to point 2.10, which we are talking about underage pregnancy, it is that at no time are we asking..., because there are no competences here in the Parliament of Catalonia, we only ask that these children be supported, which in many cases are being discriminated against on grounds of birth. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Our Spanish Constitution, in article 14, says that no one can be discriminated against...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.245.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.246.0	... on the grounds of birth. And Mrs Madaula, pinkwashing is giving big speeches in favor of the LGTBI collective and, however, mistreating and ignoring a law from the government as you do. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.247.0	We called for a vote. Separate voting petitions? Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.248.0	President, we would raise a first block, which would be the statement of point 1.1, subpoints 2.17, 3.3 and point 4, and a two block with subpoints 2.16, 2.18.2 and 2.10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.249.0	All right. Any more petitions? Yes, Mrs. Moreta...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.250.0	Yes, thank you, President. 2.10 also separately, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.251.0	Mrs. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.252.0	I hope I don't stick: the 2.6 has asked? 2.6.3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.253.0	No, he didn't ask. 2.6...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.254.0	Point three. And the 4th too, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.255.0	Separated from 2.6.3?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.256.0	No, no, 2.6.3, or so, it would be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.257.0	Or is it 2.6.3 and 2.6.4 or 4?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.258.0	No, I didn't express myself... Just separate 2.6.3 and then we'll go straight to 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.259.0	Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.260.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-04-2802.261.0	All right, any more petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] So we'll vote the block first with the point..., with the statement and point 1.1, 2.17 and 3.3. Repeat: 1.1, 2.17 and 3.3. The vote begins. This block of points was approved by 64 votes to 61, with no abstentions. We now vote on points 2.16 and 2.18.2. The vote begins. These two points were approved by 64 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. We now vote on point 2.10 – 2.10. The vote begins. Point 2.10 was approved by 35 votes to 19, with 71 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 2.6.3. The vote begins. This point was approved by 122 votes to three, with no abstentions. And now we're voting point number 4– point number 4. The vote begins. At point 4 there was a tie: 61 votes in favour, 61 against and 3 abstentions. So let's just go ahead and vote one-and-a-half times the same point, that's to say, the number four point. The vote begins. Point 4 was approved by 61 votes to 60, with 4 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. We're voting for the rest of the young man, attention. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion is approved unanimously, 124 votes in favour, no against, no abstention and one Member present who has not voted. [[Greetings.]] All right. There's no point in the order of the day. Therefore, the session rises. Thank you very much.
