ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.1.0	Well, good morning to everyone. Please, deputies, deputies, vagina sit on your escons. The session begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet and please. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality to report on the latest political and judicial developments]] [[350-00011/12]] The only point on the agenda of this plenary session is the appearance of the President of the Generality before the plenary to report on the latest developments in political and judicial affairs. In accordance with Rule 172 of the Rules of Procedure and insofar as the President of the Generality has requested to appear before the House to report on the latest events of the political and judicial events, the President of the Generality, the very honorable Quim Torra and Pla, has the words of the President of the Generality. When you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.2.0	Very good morning to everyone. Benvolgugus MPs and MPs, President, Councillors and Councillors..., honest: this is the most precious value of people. They may be better or more painful, faster or slower, bolder or more porcupine, but what I want to preserve forever is honesty. The day I do what I want to stop being honest, that day I won't be able to go on. The day I can't honestly explain myself to the people of Catalonia, that day I won't be able to continue. And I say that, because we are at an important time in our country, very important. This week it began, diluns, with the news of a sentence that should never have been written. A feeling that is the result of a great farce, that only had an objective: revenge and fear. The Spanish State did not correctly digest the escala of democracy and the civic expression worthy of a people who knew how to free that first October two years ago. That victory of popular will over the threat, intimidation and, finally, overstretched force and violence was the prelude to a crackdown that has not yet ended. The prison, the exile, the fines, the constant threats, the pre-emptive sentences, has still been creating a devastating landscape for democracy and the human, civil and political rights of the Spanish State. The Kingdom of Spain, far from responding to a legitimate and democratic demand with the dialect and the vote, has responded with the Criminal Code and repression. And that's how it went from the democratic standards of the states around us. Now, two years after taking on two unquestionable civic, peaceful and democratic leaders in Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart, we already have an infamous sentence, which condemns them, and the President of this Parliament and six members of the Government for many years in prison. It's a feeling that he's buried the foundations of the right for many years. With the feeling we have passed from a state of right to the application of a state right against dissent, which is only based on the sacred unity of Spain. It's a feeling that he doesn't just condemn us all to living under the chains of a constitution that's been old and out of date, because he's already been born an ass and conditioned by the rule that he's never just died, as we still see these days, but, more than that, he limits, from now on, in a shameful way, many of the rights that so many generations of Catalans before us and Spaniards before us, had cost them to conquer. With Jordi Sànchez and Jordi Cuixart sentenced to nine years of imprisonment each, in Josep Rull and in Joaquim Forn sentenced to two years and six months of imprisonment, Carme Forcadell – all of you, almost all of you who are here know her and know that she has only left you to debate, without limitations imposed – she has been sentenced to eleven years and a half of prison. Dolors Bassa, Jordi Turull and Raül Romeva, twelve years of deprivation of liberty, and Oriol Junqueras, thirteen years between reefs. A hundred years in total. What's a historian gonna say about us when you read this official diary of this session a few years from now? Are we aware of the gravity that all this implies? Can any of you accept this cruel and unjust revenge without remorse? You're not sure, it's not time to take a step forward and say there's enough? I can't be an independentist, or a sovereignist, or just a Catalanist to see that this is an indefatigable shame. Just having a little sense of justice, there should be enough. Do you know what's going on? That this trial, this apparently judicial process, will end up being sentenced to European courts some day. Then all the procedural violations and all the lies that have been imposed are exposed. It will prove that the trial was a scene to confirm a sentence that was already written. All this will happen, but our companies and companies, innocent and peaceful people, democrats and honorable, have already suffered years, without being able to be with their children, their parents and Germans, and with all their loved ones. Even though justice has been done, evil will have already been done. These years of prison won't make them any more. I understand that all of you, all of us here, want our political objectives to triumph. It's legitimate, it's normal, but there's no political project, as legitimate as it is, that I deserved to lock no one in jail to win. That's not legitimate. The repression of political, democratic and peaceful movement is not legitimate. Moreover, those who use repression to win opponents lose all legitimacy to their political project. In democracy, more than in any other rule, it may be worth it. Because it is necessary to defend projects, proposals and ideas without using rights, without imposing, with the word. And with the word and the only strength of the votes, knowing that you can lose if you don't have people's confidence or support, because it's the people who give you the confidence to pull your political projects or not. It's too easy and it's a false right to want to win imposing and repressing. It has therefore failed to repress, to prosecute, to prosecute. Keep up the good stuff. That is why I appear before you today with dismay and indignation. As thousands, as millions of Catalans feel and live, now, the reaction to these sensations. This is a tough time for the country. Dismayed and indignant, as the judiciary has experienced these past two years Senators and MPs from various European countries, who have signed manifestoes and raised their voices against this farce, and Nobel Prizes for Peace, Writers and Intellectuals from all over the world and from the main human rights organizations, such as the Office of the High Commission of the United Nations for Human Rights or the World Organization against Torture. Or entities such as the American Political Science Association, which represents more than two thousand American university professors, or the International Association of Democratic Lawyers. And I can't forget the more than five hundred parliamentarians and ex-parliamentaries of twenty-five countries who signed a manifesto calling for the inn to be freed by Carme Forcadell. Or the PEN International Club, the Association of European Democratic Lawyers, or the International Commission of Jurists. To reach the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention of the United Nations, which demanded the immediate release of Catalan political prisoners. The cost to the reputation of Spanish democracy has been enormous. The Council of Europe has recently opened an investigation in Spain and Turkey into the use of justice against dissident policies, which question power and the status quo. The Council of Europe. And you can only see the information that the international media are standing out, to find the pendant for which the Spanish State has gone unhindered. An example, the editorial of the Financial Times dimarts, demolidor. This feeling was raised after the repressive coups of the late 17th; after the months of democratic suspension provided for by the alliance of 155 between the People's Party, the Socialist Party and Ciutadans; after threats, quarrels, challenges, prohibitions and suspensions, and after a brutal repression and the authoritarian involution of the State. These past few days, we have had to see how the Spanish State has deployed a huge device to Catalonia to hold new independenceists and lock it up in unconditional prison. In an irregular manner, as reported by the Solidary Alert lawyers, in a secret summary, which is leaked to convenience, with the aim of implementing a false report, according to which independence is violent. We have to see the deployment of military and civilian guards to Catalonia, ordered by the government of Pedro Sánchez, with a clear intimidating objective. The statements of the General of the Civil Guard, threatening us and, moreover, having to hold the continued appeals of the total practice of Spanish policies to the application of the Law of National Security, or already directly, to Article 155 on a daily basis. So no. We do not accept the feeling of ignominy, we reject it. Because, moreover, with this feeling, our political and social representatives have not been so condemned; with this feeling, democracy has been condemned, and more than two million people have been condemned who participated in that reference. This feeling is, moreover, a direct attack on the exercise of people's fundamental rights, and it is the most important democracy that has existed since 1978. This feeling violates the rights of assembly and demonstration, association, expression and opinion, thought, political participation, non-discrimination and the right to freedom. So yes, every forbidden right will need to exercise it again; every mortified freedom will need to be defended again. If, in order to set the ballot boxes for self-determination, we are sentenced to one hundred years, the answer is clear: the ballot boxes for self-determination will have to be placed again. One of the few pleasures I still allow myself is to read a room before going to sleep. These days I read Václav Havel's biography, a policy that, I suppose, like most of you, I admire very much. I have also mentioned Havel, who captivated the old-fashioned revolution and was one of the European leaders in the movement for civil rights, non-violence and civil resistance. Havel defended that he should live in the truth, as an act of resistance, of rebellion against the lie of which the same totalitarian power is not imprisoned; living in the truth allows the citizen to create a situation that confounds the whole regime and causes it to react inappropriately. For Havel, the power that life has in truth is the power to end repressive structures, is the power to reverse identity and repressed dignity. And this enormous power rau in the yes of every person. And these are days, these are hours to live in the truth. Since the last few years it has been made public the sentence that condemns our leaders to prison pens of one hundred years, I have been able to express, in the institutional declaration made to the Palau of the Generality, the rebuff and the non-acceptance of the sentence. Another time, we have called the dialogue uselessly with the president in the offices of the Spanish Government. Despite the repeated refusal of the State, we have always been willing to talk and talk about this political conflict, which can be resolved, today more than ever, politically. Call him today, again, President Sánchez to face the conflict as the democracies do: talking and seeing the citizenry. Because neither the unit of Spain nor the independence of Catalonia can serve as an excuse to violate the rights of the people or their political representatives. But if our companies and companies have been found guilty, so have I. And so, as I announced to the members of the government, I decided to charge myself. I, too, am the author of this false crime that has been imputed to him, and I hope that all those members of this chamber who feel hurt by their desire for justice will do the same. Also, as President of Catalonia, I wrote to all the presidents and prime ministers of the European Union, to the G20, to the EFTA, to explain to them the condemnation of seditiousness and embezzlement of our social and political leaders. In this same line, the Foreign Affairs Councillor, Alfred Bosch, has started a tour and will send cards to the Foreign Ministers of these same countries. We will not stop to disseminate to the world the decisions of the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention of the United Nations, which demands the inn in immediate freedom of Catalan political prisoners. We must live in truth and not in threats or threats. Yesterday there was another serious incident: several of the resolutions adopted by the absolute majority of the chamber were suspended by the Constitutional Court; all the references to the right of self-determination. I do not usually teach, as others do, neither posters nor papers, but I believe that this is worth teaching, the resolution of the Constitutional Court in which, to all the members of the Bureau, the Government and myself, we are required in these terms: "They are warned of their obligation to prevent or paralyse any initiative that would ignore or circumvent the agreed suspension, warning them of any responsibilities, including criminal liability, in which they may incur. That is to say, the Constitutional Court claims that the chamber where the sovereignty of Catalans resides is not able to speak of the right of self-determination. So we have to live the truth, and the truth is that in this chamber, we will talk again, debate and discuss the right of self-determination and that, in no way, the court will prevent this president of Catalonia from continuing to push all the initiatives that he thinks are appropriate about the right of self-determination of Catalonia. We cannot afford a step backwards in defending our inalienable right to self-determination. I do not think I will allow and appeal to all Members of the House, not just the independents, to react against this violation of freedom of expression, parliamentary inviolability and our right as a people to decide our future. They can't beat us either because of the threats, or the disqualifications, or whatever it is. There is the dignity of Catalonia at stake in this question of the right of self-determination, and with the dignity of Catalonia there is no play. This is the sad and painful reality that the Spanish State has come to so that it does not want to recognize that the people, that people have the right to choose their future by voting freely. And from this sad and painful reality we must not go out with determination, without excuses and without wasting time. From the outset, we must do this peacefully; the only way we have the Catalans to advance in independence, the only way. As I did yesterday evening, I want to make a call to calmness, serenity and civics. We, the independenceists, do not recognize each other in violence, it is not our language; we refuse it as we have always refused, it does not represent us. We reject and condemn all the rapes, come from where they come and pretend to justify themselves as usual. We have never had a mania or a negation in time to condemn the violence whenever it has occurred. Actually, we've always been the first to do it. There are groups here that have not done so when the violence has been directed against independenceists or against people participating in a referendum. There are a few groups here in this chamber that have not yet condemned the violence of October 1st; so that they do not come to demand or give lessons about the violence, they know perfectly well what it is, because we have always rejected it. The independence movement, the democrats of this country, who refuse the feeling and want to go out on the street to express it, must always do so with serenity, firmness, civics and determination. We're black people and we're coughing up and we refuse any outbreak of violence that's produced. If there are provocateurs and agitators who want to change the course of peaceful mobilizations, they need to wing them and turn them away. We'll need to investigate the background to find out who's behind these incidents. But no one wants to sweep things – no one wants to sweep things –, no one wants to criminalize civil disobedience, because non-violent civil disobedience is a legitimate way to defend the rights denied; it's the way Gandhi, Martin Luther King, Rosa Parks and many other leaders and movements for the civilian rights of the population served. Some of them should be ashamed to fight civil disobedience with violence. And all this we have to do in a country with a national police force, the Squad Mosos, who must do their job and their main mission: protect the people from threats and ensure that this citizenry can live with their rights and freedoms respected. We need our police, who have all my support and recognition, to be scrupulous and exemplary in the compliment of their mission. We cannot allow any violation of established performance protocols: mediation, proportionality, avoid major damage. I trust them. As Councillor Buch said yesterday, we are there to recognize his work when they do it well, as usual to always be and have demonstrated the Squad's Stitch, but there are also there when it is not so, to demand responsibility and the compliment of the legally established principles of police action. That's why I asked the counselor to investigate any irregular situation that might have occurred and to do self-criticism when necessary, and now is a time to do so. There have been images and situations that have not pleased us at all, and if we do not do a review and repair exercise, we would not be doing a good thing to a group of agents who dedicate their lives to serve us very often risking their physical integrity to protect us. The Squadron Mosses are one of the most valued institutions in the country. And it's good that I keep feeling that way; it has to be that way. It is in everyone's interest to preserve this value. And that's why we don't have to get in the way of always improving any aspect that can get better. They know they've got me at their side for that, too. I've seen them work, I've been able to talk to the commissioners, and we get out of the work they do every day of the year. As I said, we are in a sad and painful situation: a state that is democratic and right-wing is dedicated to violating rights and jumping principles as far-reaching as the separation of powers. And it's in this mark where we have to move precisely to overcome it. I always said that I would make my proposal as to how to continue reaching the point of inflection of feelings. I would like to remind you that already in my investiture speech I announced to you that this legislature was going from restitution to constitution. Most of the chamber trusted me, and that's why I'm here today as President of Catalonia. I have never fooled anyone; nor when I announced that we would vote that we would not vote on Pedro Sánchez's assumptions and his investiture if he did not recognize the willingness to move forward in the dialog for the exercise of the right to self-determination. So my proposal is concrete through an international and two-way street. In the first place, we can follow the path of internationalization. The Council for the Republic, with the very honorable President Puigdemont in the front, is a very valuable entity, its paper has to be cabdal. And we're seeing it. When? When a few days ago he called the assembly of elected officers. To our country, on the other hand, we will have two tools, and also an engine, which must become monamental, on which the initiative of the own mesos hinges. The engine has to be a presupposition for 2020 that will be the lever of social change, with 2,500_million more that will allow to make a program of xoc ambitions in favor of the people who most need it. We're under this pressure to move forward and to move everybody forward. But what other tools do we have? First of all, we have a debate on the subject, which has been taking place since civil society, and which I take advantage of to thank Lluís Llach for his tremendous commitment. It is a project that already has a high level of participation and that needs to become a key to open Republican doors. The spring of the coming year, the spring of the year 2020, the debate will be able to consolidate some proposals that serve as a guide for the elaboration of a republican constitution. As has been shown so far, it will be the strength of the people, the participation and this ability to seize that which will make the debate a success and give a complete force to their conclusions. I repeat, in the spring we will have a proposal. I encourage the citizenry to participate in it, to debate, to build, to write its own future. And, for another band, we have a very important basis for jointly advancing parties and entities towards the exercise of the right of self-determination: the demand for amnesty and the defence of civil and political rights. It must be that national agreement that the absolute majority of this chamber approved to push forward in a resolution of the general policy debate, a great country agreement for self-determination, civil and political rights and amnesty, opened to all political, social and cultural agents in Catalonia, which brings together all the party forces of democracy with the following objectives: first, to establish the consensus necessary to achieve the amnesty of all the people persecuted for the exercise of their political, civil and social rights, and, secondly, to set the lives in order to realize the exercise of the right of self-determination in the shortest possible terms. Resolution approved by the absolute majority of this chamber. In compliment to this resolution, we must find ourselves parties and entities to chart the course towards the independent republic. I am pleased that you have taken this joint vote and this will be extended, plural, inclusive. Surely each political group will be able to bring it the best of its political tradition: the CUP, Esquerra, Junts per Catalunya, any other political actors who want to participate or any other entity that wants to be present. But we have a huge duty: to fix lives to realize the exercise of the self-determination right as quickly as possible. And in the framework of this national agreement, I will defend that in this legislature, the right of self-determination will be exercised again. Now it's about getting it, not just trying to do it anymore. We all know the difficulties of repression and persecution, but we must continue to move forward and not be intimidated by threats or prohibitions; we must all make this effort and compromise. This legislature, if all parties and organizations make it possible, we must be able to finalise it by validating independence. This is my proposal for a country that is always there and that never fails to demonstrate its determination and consistency. We can't fail them; we can't not be at the height of the people that these days and have always come out again and mull for freedom, justice and democracy. We can't go on in this guise that never fails to add to our bars. Before I talked to them about honesty, I ended up talking to them about the truth, to tell them the truth. I want to live like this, I don't want to fool anyone, I haven't done it until now and I don't think I will. I believe that in this chamber we must always tell the truth, it is our obligation, it is our duty and responsibility, and it is what awaits the citizenship of us. The day I can't live in the truth, I'll tell you. Serenity, firmness, determination and non-violence. And, above all, none of us should lose the ability to move forward, always forward. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.3.0	Why ask me the word, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.4.0	Yes, Mr. President... [[The applause continues.]] Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.5.0	Quiet, quiet. Say, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.6.0	Yes, Mr President, in view of President Torra's words, we believe that an amendment to the agenda is appropriate under Rule 83.3 of our Rules of Procedure, since Mr Torra did not refer in his speech to the alleged relations he had with the CoR who was arrested on charges of terrorism and whom he applauded at this meeting, and we have entered a petition for appearance which was voted on at the last Board of Spokesmen and which stated that the terms by which we requested our appearance would be cleared by Mr Torra today at his appearance. That CoR was arrested, Mr Torra said « pressurize, press the CoRs and we have Catalonia on fire by the CoRs. We want Mr. Torra specifically, as we asked in our appearance, to say whether he demarcates his support for the CDRs in view of the circumstances that are taking place in Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.7.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.8.0	... since Mr. Torra has not spoken about it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.9.0	... one thing is that the alteration of the order of the day and the other is that you do directly to the whole. [[Widow's remorse.]] This request, Mr Carrizosa, was made to the Bureau, went to the Board of Spokesmen and was not included in the order of the day; therefore, it is not included in the order of the day, because it was not done with the majority. You can ask for it from the parliamentary groups... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Listen to me, you... [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.10.0	With all due respect, President, we're the fifth part of this chamber and so we can ask and you can agree to vote in this chamber. So, that's exactly what we're asking.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.11.0	Look, as long as the president has just spoken, and normally we also have a deadline between the president's intervention and the group's intervention, we will do this deadline, we will meet the Bureau and resume the plenary session in five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.12.0	Deputies, deputies, return to your seats, please; we will resume the Ple.... [[Widow's remorse.]] Deputies, please... Well, before we proceed, and in relation to the petition that was made before the day, to say that on the Board of Spokesmen, as I said before, it was the intention of some parliamentary groups to place this item on the order of the day. It was not subsumed in this appearance, but it was a difference point that did not hold the majority to the Board of Spokespersons to be included in the Plenary. But, said that, you have the legitimacy to ask for this change in the order of the day, and what we do is..., once this point of the order of the day is over, we will vote if the Ple considers that the order of the day of this session needs to be changed to include this proposal, huh? Therefore, we continue with the President's appearance. And on this turn is the time for the intervention of parliamentary groups, for a maximum of two minutes, and five subgroups. In the first place has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.13.0	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, just a week ago we came to this same camera to censor you, and we did it because you had crossed a very dangerous red line, a line that has a difficult return. In the eyes of everyone, you and other separatist leaders legitimized the violence, you applauded and defended terrorist suspects, people who had plans to attack Catalonia, people who had materials to make explosives, people who, who know, maybe if the Civil Guard hadn't acted, would have been the strong dish of this tsunami of violence that is destroying Catalonia. And a week ago in that motion of censure I told you that you seemed to me to be a public danger, and today, in view of what has happened in recent days in Catalonia, I can do nothing but reaffirm myself. What you've done here today, coming here to make this separatist soflama, plagued with falsehoods besides, criticizing a legitimately handed down sentence, is nothing more than a new call to revolt, Mr. Torra. You've come here today to burn again, Mr. Torra. [[Greetings.]] After three days of chaos and flames in Catalonia, you have come here again to burn. You're an irresponsible man. A week ago, I was trying to appeal to your conscience, I was asking you at that time if someone with common sense was left in your ranks. You didn't even dignify to answer that day, you weren't even able to come out here to face it. Today, however, he has spoken, and unfortunately he has done so to say no, that there is no conscience to appeal to, that there is no common sense left, there is no loophole of common sense between his ranks. Because for you... you came here to tell us how bad it happened yesterday in Catalonia, huh? It was that the Constitutional Court warned them that they could not do what they wanted in this Parliament. That's the most serious thing that happened to you yesterday here in Catalonia. Not the barricades, no; not the riots, no; you don't call them on the streets of Catalonia; not the wounded, no: the Constitutional Court. That for you is the most serious thing that happened here yesterday. You are irresponsible and you are not worthy of being the president of all Catalans. [[Greetings.]] In fact, you, Mr. Torra, last night, the truth is that you've already pointed out ways. He had all of Catalonia in town until 12:30 waiting for an appearance, a statement from him, and then he ended up going out... and saying, right? After three days of chaos in Catalonia, you went out there – in a minute and a half you ventilated it – to say, then, how good they are, and that if the violent are some who are there infiltrated, « agitators and provocateurs, has told us today. That is, you – you –, who have been feeding hatred for years, you, who have left in writing how much disgust the « mad beasts we speak the tongue of vipers, you, who say, eh? – and I quote textually – that « a Catalan who aspires to be Spanish is nothing, the total emptiness, unbrained beasts, you come here today to speak of agitators, Mr Torra. You, who refer to Spain – and I quote also textually – as ‘that country exporting misery, materially and spiritually speaking..., those are your words, Mr. Torra. And you come here today to talk about provocateurs and agitators. You come out here trying to convince us of how good it is. You have been feeding hatred with your writings for years, and now you do it from the power that gives you to be the president of the Generalitat; you do it now with the tools that you have to be the president of the Generalitat. And that is why, precisely, it is urgent that you stop being the president of the Generalitat. [[Greetings.]] You're no longer a valid interlocutor, Mr. Torra, you stopped being the same day you came here to clap and holler at the alleged terrorists. Look, you've been reaffirming yourself ever since, you're going to get worse! When I thought we couldn't see anything worse than what they did here a few days ago, applauding and defending alleged terrorists, it turns out that yes, it turns out that you do prove that you can go a step further still. Fixed: on Monday, after the siege at the airport, it occurred to you to give thanks to those who had entangled there to boycott one of the essential infrastructures for the state. On Monday we saw clashes with the police and the Mossos d'Esquadra at that airport; we saw desperate people dragging their suitcases, walking along the road to get to their flights; we saw distressed people, precisely because they lost those flights, Mr. Torra, because more than 100 flights were cancelled at the airport; people who had to sleep there, on the airport floor, because they could not get to their homes; losses encrypted in more than 2_million_de_euros. And you can't think of anything other than thanking the violent ones who caused all that damage. In what head does it fit, Mr. Torra? In what head? [[Greetings.]] Tell me about it. In what parallel universe is that normal, Mr. Torra? Do you, all those people who missed their flights care about something or give them absolutely the same, the people who had to go down the road dragging their bags, all those people who had to sleep on the floor? The terrible image of Barcelona and Catalonia that is taking place abroad, does that matter to you? You and many of those who are sitting there, because it is that Mr Sabrià dedicated himself to giving instructions on how to occupy the airport. The man of state, the one who comes here to give lessons in dialogue and democracy, giving instructions to occupy the airport. [[Greetings.]] You are instigators – you are instigators. [[Widow's remorse.]] Look, not only did they kidnap the airport on Monday, they also cut roads, blocked train tracks, prevented Catalans from making normal lives, getting to their jobs, returning to their homes, going to their classes, taking their children to school, walking quietly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.14.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.15.0	On Monday, the separatist commands blocked Catalonia, and the worst of all is that we didn't know that there was still something worse to come: "Tsunami you call it. Of course, as a metaphor, it has no price, because yes, it razes where that tsunami goes, it is razing absolutely everything, sowing chaos. We have been watching barricades, burning streets, throwing stones, stabbing objects, clashes with the police and the Mossos d'Esquadra for three days. Last night, before you came out at that lame appearance, minicurrency, the Mossos reported that they had attacked them with acid, launched Molotov cocktails and rockets against the helicopters. But you didn't even remember them in that ad you gave us to try to clean up your image. [[Greetings.]] Look, I take it from here to send all my support to all the police forces for the tireless work these days. [[Greetings.]] While you give thanks to the violent, we give thanks to the police who protect us. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Torra, you live outside reality, but make an effort: get out on the street..., not to go and cut the AP-7, as we saw you yesterday, with shame, which you did, boycotting the citizens, who could not arrive yesterday either to your jobs or to your appointment with the doctor. Are you aware that yesterday we saw how a pregnant woman couldn't get to the hospital because of you and you didn't even dignify yourself to look at it? Are you aware, Mr. Torra? [[Greetings.]] Look at the Catalans. Go out on the street and look at the Catalans' eyes. Look at those who have spent nights listening with fear as the helicopter flies over their homes to control their disturbances; look at those who have taken refuge in their homes these nights because they cannot go out on the street, neither in Barcelona, nor in Tarragona, nor in Girona, nor in Lleida, because that seems like a battlefield, Mr. Torra; look at those who have seen how fire and ashes even reached their homes. We saw a father go out with his son in his arms for fear, for fear of burning his own house, Mr. Torra. Look, we're not gonna let decent people be afraid because of their violent tsunami. [[Greetings.]] Because you, Mr. Torra, instead of stopping – instead of stopping – thanked the commanders for their work, that work that has already resulted in more than two hundred and fifty injured in these three days, with damage to urban furniture, with burnt cars. How are people going to work if they don't have a car? What are you going to take in the official car, Mr. Torra? You're an irresponsible man. You've touched the bottom, but you want to keep digging. They want to keep digging because they don't respect anything, they don't respect justice, they disobey the laws, and they come out here to threaten another blow, don't they? : in the spring of 2020 we will have a new constitution and a new blow to democracy. And you say it here, so joyfully, after these three days of chaos, Mr. Torra, really... And above it goes to make you a bit the victim, to talk about the infiltrates, you said. Look, I'm gonna show you some pictures, Mr. Torra. This here is the airport of Barcelona. What are these, all undercover, Mr. Torra? All the agitators and provocateurs that we have sent there or what is this, Mr. Torra? Hey? I know, have you seen people walking around with their bags to get to the airport to catch their flights? You've seen it, huh? Set yourself, set yourself, the infiltrators, attacking, attacking a lady for carrying a flag from Spain. I want to condemn from here the machismo that is lived in separatist demonstrations. [[Greetings.]] You always attack them; women always get assaulted, for carrying a flag. I'll be right there. Another companion here, another lady, also in her vehicle. Call. This is Barcelona, Mr. Torra; this is the Barcelona you are creating, a burning Barcelona. Look, today I take advantage, I want to say..., a few days ago they assaulted a companion precisely for wearing this shirt, for wearing this symbol, and today all my colleagues and I also wear this shirt and this symbol because we are proud of what we are, like most Catalans, Catalans, Spanish and Europeans. [[Greetings.]] And no matter how hard they stick...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.16.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.17.0	I'm done. As much as you're busy, Mr. Torra, you won't let us stop feeling so proud. Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.18.0	On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the return of Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.19.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Many honourable President of the Generality, you asked to appear to report on the latest political and judicial developments, and, yes doubtless, you wanted – as you did – to set your Government's position on the recent Supreme Court ruling. Our position of respect is well known: whatever our opinion is that we can benefit from the unanimous judgment of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, this judgment must be complied with. And it has to be done especially for the institutions; it has no sense to face the legitimacy of the judiciary with the character represented by the institutions, whether parliamentary, municipal or whatever. And that is what you are doing, this institutional confrontation, with an attitude that we consider totally irresponsible and with the consequences that we see these days in the streets and places of the people and cities of Catalonia – that is, together, it is making motions; today, in Parliament, we will only make interventions. And you deny it every day, but we will say to them again: "We live in a democracy, in a state of right. Yes, one of the twenty full democracies according to all the international indicators; a rule of separation of powers that binds the judiciary, with an excluded character, the responsibility to apply the laws approved by the legislature, and makes judgments. In a state of law, we are all under the law, and we have an obligation to comply with judicial decisions, whichever is our particular opinion of respect. Logically, in a democracy, judicial resolutions are also subject to criticism. The Constitution guarantees the right to freedom of expression and also the right to assembly and demonstration, and everyone has the right to make his or her voice felt peacefully, from respect to different opinions and from respect for the right to work and mobility of the city council. Most of us have lamented at one time or another that a conflict of political nature has ended in courts without ever having found a _marc of dialogue and resolution in politics. But we cannot fail to say that the intervention of justice was inevitable, it was essential if someone or some decided to skip the law, which is what happened. Many times from this rostrum we were warning of the risk of illegal decisions and we were saying that the unilateral route was doomed to failure, and time has shown that we were right. Attempting to liquidate the Constitution and the Statute and trying to break the Spanish territorial integrity in violation of the law constitutes the crime that the Supreme Court ultimately described as a siege, following in this respect the criteria of the State Advocate and not of the Supreme Court Prosecutor's Office. By the way, president, if you quote editorials from the Financial Times, do it right, please. Read: « A democracy that respect the rule of law is required in the public interest to hold to account anyone who undertakes an illegal act. Spain is no exception. There is little reason to believe that the trial in the Supreme Court was anything other than a fair trial. Therefore, the Financial Times considers it to be a fair trial. Certainly, that editorial says important things to remember, for example: « Prison sentences cannot solve Catalonia's crisis. Totally fine. « Political reconciliation is needed in Spain, even if secessionists'trial was legitimate. That's what the Financial Times says. What we do from now on is to return to politics, to the place from which our problem should never have arisen, and this is only possible from respect for the legal framework, which can be modified through reform processes, through the mechanisms and majorities provided for by the same law, and from a dialogue between political forces to build the necessary consensus. But you said to me: "The next political stage will be a confrontation. All the opposite of the dialy. Today, President, we did not know how to see concrete proposals to overcome the current blockade; well, yes: "We will do it again. You propose that we repeat the mistakes that have brought us here: division, unilaterality and illegality. If we do the same, the result will be the same, but with a society still more divided, still more affluent. Responses to the sentence have shown this division and have put on the table other problems. All opinions are legitimate, but there are not all the forms in which these opinions are expressed. And, as I've always said – and I'm glad you've done it here today – I'd like to condemn without pal·liatius and without any kind of violence. We must show alarm before the possibility that some have thought of resorting to violent actions and we must condemn those who, in order to criticize the feeling, alter the civic coexistence, destroy urban furniture, try to paralyze transport infrastructures, fire down or attack the police forces that go through the rights of all. I think there are a majority of citizens who, beyond the opinion they have about the feeling, think that the protest never has to alter the coexistence. But now I also think about the people affected by these mobilizations. There has been talk of cancelled flights, of cancelled medical visits, of classes to schools, institutes, universities, in those affected by the heights of roads or the attempt to block the airport... These people also have rights and their rights have been raised, and I did not seem to hear or see that you did anything to defend the rights of these people. Some of us saw what was going on at the airport; Tuesdays and Sundays, what was going on in Barcelona and the rest of the capital... We waited a long time to see the government..., we only saw Councilman Buch, that's right; but the government, its president, didn't show up until very late yesterday. What were we hoping for? A government that reassures the people, that collects the bodies and security forces that guarantee the rights of all of us. We didn't find him; we didn't find him when we needed him. We already knew that you have a divided government, but it is also that you have a divided government on a subject as crucial as guaranteeing citizen security. For a song, Counsellor Buch yesterday said that the Mosses had a correct performance and that the same thing self-critically analyzes their performances. But, in turn, Vice President Aragones has already given the impression that there are incorrect actions that need to be debugged. The deputy Rufián said that the squadrons were acting disproportionately and that it was essential to ask and take responsibility. These are the moderate partners of the government. You have not been as clear or blunt as when you said "press", "press", "press", "press". And, President, yesterday's editors were summoned exclusively for the CoRs, who have always had their most enthusiastic support. How is it possible that the Mosos first find the Spanish government's scald and support than theirs? – by the President of the Government of Spain. In his statement yesterday night, which was already late – he could have prepared a little – not a mention of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and other police bodies. Do you know how many agents have been wounded since the last few days? I'm sure you know: 194. Therefore, when we all ask for provided performances, I believe that 194 wounded give us a measure of the proportion that police actions must have. Miri, a government must not cry out to disobedience, cannot forget its institutional role, must defend the rights of all. And, look, President, his main obligation – and I liked that he started his honest intervention; it's true that we can disagree about what he meant by honesty and coherence, but I liked that he started with an important value – from our point of view, his main obligation is to promote coexistence, ensure security and ensure self-government. And we think you're doing the opposite. To promote coexistence, we must promote respect, accept that there are different opinions. The problem is not that there is diversity of opinions, the problem is not to respect those that do not coincide with one's own. To ensure security, I want to respect the law and give support to the police. There's no equidistance between a police car and the moves. Who cries out "pem, pam, pom, that I have not left one, "kill him, kill him, who will act on the move does not deserve any respect for us, deserves our rebuff, our condemnation. To ensure self-government, so that there is government, a government that respects the law and that will go through the rights of all. It can't be that the citizenry thinks she's helpless, that you're indifferent to what's going on. And look, in the investiture debate we said: "We do not want to let ourselves be harmed, we will judge its action. And we're doing it today. President, we consider that you cannot exercise the highest Catalan judiciary. His political conception and attitude pose independence over coexistence, his activism leads him to lack citizen security and the defense of the rights of all Catalans, particularly those who do not think like you. In its hands, the Catalan self-government is again at risk, as at the end of 2017. And that's why we call upon their responsibility: to resign, to call elections, to let others stand before the government. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , some kind of overlaying of independence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.20.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.21.0	... living together, someone able to secure the rights of everyone before their activism, someone able to defend self-government before an illegal unilateral chimera. Very honorable Mr. President, you yourself said it wasn't a person...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.22.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.23.0	...to preside over an autonomy. Keep it together, step on the side and fold. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.24.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the words of Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.25.0	Yes; thank you, President, and good morning to all of you. We are living difficult days, days in which more than ever we need calm, we need serenity and we need empathy. Empathy to recover the word, the listener and the future. Empathy with those who are moved by the unfair feeling that the independence leaders have rejected, but also empathy with those who are concerned and worried about the people and the actions we are seeing in the streets, unfortunate facts that we do not want or deserve like the country. These are intense days of emotion, indignation and sadness. Days when we have shown solidarity with condemned people and their families. Days when the streets have filled with multitudes of claimed and peaceful acts, and where the strength of the people has been felt again. But also days of vandals and vandals, which we condemn with all roundness and which have no head, so do not bring anything good. Days of disproportionate and anti-regulatory police charges on the part of the Squad and also on the part of the National Police. And the days when the Government – this Government of the Generality – has been absent, has been empty, has given no guidance and where the maximum representative of the Government, who is the President of the Generality, has made an absolute leave of office in the most complicated moments. [[Some applause.]] President, until now you didn't say a word of what was going on in the streets of Catalonia. We must remind you that he is not an activist, he is the President of the Generality, and as he is to act. And if you don't make it clear and you don't want to do it, as a result, president, you'll have to fold. Three days quiet, with the excitement that was in Catalan society, concern for vandalism, and you go here and make a speech – with all respect – delusional and irresponsible: it does not correspond to the reality of the country. His answer to the sentence is the Council for the Republic and the process constitute. President, this is one shot behind another. I only hope that in the spring of 2020 you will not continue to be president and we will be part of the solution, because this country that needs solutions is able to move forward. [[some applause]] Because, besides, you're talking about a great deal of country when you're actually just talking to yours, and I'd say you're just talking to one side every time smaller than yours. I'd like to know what Esquerra Republicana thinks of the speech you've made here today... but, well, let's go to pams. We spent weeks and months announcing that this trial did not wish for any scenes of hope, and this week we found what we were already warning: that from the judicialization of politics we cannot expect any fair feeling, because this feeling is unfair in all its levels. It is at the human level, and more so if we have before us that after two years of pre-trial detention absolutely unwarranted; at the legal level – and let us not give it to ourselves, we want to be strict. It is said by professors of constitutional law, it is said by people like Joaquín Urías, who has followed the lettrat of the Constitutional Court, who wrote a few days ago: "The Catalan institutions have left the legal field and have forgotten that they are not only due to their voters, but to the entire population of Catalonia. From the legal point of view, I think they were wrong and, no doubt, they skipped the law. But that is not what was judged here, nor are those anti-democratic illegalities punished with prison sentences. We don't say that, the teachers of Constitutional Law say that. I follow: "Since this is serious, what is terrible socially is the effect that the judgment will have on the exercise of fundamental rights in Spain. So..., but this is what we say: this feeling is not just a burden for condemned people and their families, this feeling represents a setback from the democratic state and affects the rights of everyone and everyone. And that's why we want to insist: it's not about independence or independence, it's about democracy. And, as I said, all levels are unfair, also at the political level. This feeling, if it does anything, is to lengthen the solutions, it's to deepen the emotional strain of a large part of the Catalan population with Spain and, moreover, to tackle a blockade that we don't know how or when to get out. This sentence marks a time and a time in our history and we need to work so that we can continue to open a new necessary stage that cannot be marked either for the prosecution or for the repetition of errors. Despite the difficulties, despite the impotence we feel and suffer, this new phase must come marked by politics and solutions to the conflict. It is a new stage that we know when it will begin; it will probably not begin without freedom of prisoners and political pressures, but we do not know how long it will last. This will depend on our ability and our ability to do politics, because, despite everything, it is time for politics, strategy and audacity. Now more than ever political for solutions and democracy, a policy that must be made out of the street, in a peaceful and serene way, guaranteeing the right to protest and mobilization, and also from institutions, with a wide-ranging look and thinking beyond the very own telenews. And remembering also what paper you have, and what our responsibility is. Because, President, we, for so much as we go to a march, to a mobilization, to a concentration, we are the ones who we have to learn and talk and we are the ones who we have to do that the other political forces and the State are following and talking; in no case do we have to block. Therefore, more than going to the mobilizations, we must look for political and institutional outputs. [[Greetings.]] And we know that it's hard, and that no one has a quick, easy, or magical solution – because if someone has it, I want to think that you've already come out here and explained it to us, and we wouldn't be in this place. So let's start to recognize that we are certainly in a process that will triage time, that will not be quick, and therefore use politics as pedagogy. In front of a Pedro Sánchez with a short look, who has passed from the motion of censure and from Pedralbes to talk about the complete compliment of the sentence, who has called us into some absolutely unnecessary elections and who are contaminating the debate that we are having, which goes in search of the electorate of Ciutadan and the abstention of the People's Party – and which, therefore, is making every time a more retrograde and more reactionary speech – and which we already know that he has not proposed for Catalonia, here we do not fall into either confrontation or empty management, which is what we have seen today. What it is to co-ordinate Catalonia around political solutions through an understanding for the future, an understanding for the future that the first one that needs is truth and coherence, President. You spoke of truth. I also want to speak of truth; of truth and coherence. It can't be that you send and encourage people to go to the Prat airport and then the Mosos catch them. They don't know, that it's completely inconsistent and that this can't be? We've seen disproportionate charges, we've seen abuses, we've seen arbitrary violence that even affected journalists, there are two hundred wounded people, a boy who lost his eye for a rubber bullet impact, and we're hoping to know if there's a _second affected. President, full responsibilities, and we have asked for cleanup, clean up political responsibilities. You didn't do anything... and, in fact, you said you'd be investigating the Mossos. And I say to him: the Mossos are politically ordered, so let the Mossos do his job and that the political orders that they arrive really follow those that correspond to the protocols and are still provided. And another inconsistency: it doesn't seem normal to me – I don't know if it looks normal to you – that last week in this Parliament the parties that support the Government vote in favour of taking out the Civil Guard of Catalonia and now we know that it was the Department of the Interior that asked the other security units, the other police units, to come to Catalonia to give support and help in the response to the feeling. What are we staying at? Do we get them out or do we get them to come in and give support and reinforce the Squad Mosses? [[Some applause.]] It's just that it can't be, it's an inconsistency and a contradiction behind each other. It can't work like that. This government has been systematically characterized to say something and to do the counter, but this time the evidence is so great that even those who trusted you now don't support them. And Republican Left, one more time, acting as if you were not in government: Vice President Aragonès closes files with Mr. Buch; a few weeks ago, the Republican Left Parliamentary Group voted against Mr. Buch's coming to appear to give explanations about Sants' denunciation, and today we know a communiqué from the Republican Left Party demanding responsibility for police actions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left, I don't know if it's political opportunism or internal divisions, but they'd do well to clear us up and clear us up. Therefore, truth and coherence at a stage that needs to be opened with the freedom of independent leaders, so that we can only recover democratic normality and move towards a political solution to the conflict. And what's clear is that this government, at times like we're living, the feeling it gives is not exactly solid or ruddering. The feeling that we have..., and if I have to solve it in a serious sentence that there is no one driving; this country went without a horizon and without a direction. Therefore, President, you are not presiding, you are not ruling, you are not working on solutions. That's why we ask you to fold, because you can't go on like this. You started saying the day you can't be honest will have to fold. So, I'm telling you that you have to be honest, and recognize that you'd rather be an activist than a president. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.26.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.27.0	Thank you, President. First of all, our most absolute solidarity and empathy with political prisoners and prisoners, and also with exiles and exiles, and with everyone who until today was patenting the repression of the State and the arm of closed police violence: your freedom is our struggle. Secondly, our joy for all the mobilizations of support and solidarity, which are all around the Catalan countries, and our gratitude for the solidarity that we have on top of other peoples of the State and at international level. This is a fight for the rights and freedoms of everyone, whether you are independent or not. The Supreme Court's ruling was the detonation of an impressive slave of popular mobilizations from the Catalan countries. Vicud repression since 2017, together with the finding that autonomy is already a fiction and that democracy in the Spanish State is a mirage, have been drawn by thousands of people on the street, completely overflowing both autonomous sovereignty and government in function of the State. Thousands of young people without present or future in the system, in the 78's, come out on the street to win a future of dignity, of social rights, of civil rights, of political rights, which is not possible today in the regime's march, and that goes beyond independence and beyond sovereignty. Calen political solutions. The popular protest forced the State to take its own face and show its cruelest face: the repression, the broken violence and censorship, the sending of thousands of police and civilian guards has broken a wave of police violence that in only forty-eight hours has caused arrests, arrests, hundreds of injuries – some of them of great gravity. This police rape has been perpetrated in rape between the occupation forces and the Department of Interior, under the orders of the Government of the Generality. The popular response also shows the fiction of the effective government; the effective governance strategy has proved to be an absolute weakness in relation to what is proposed: implementing the republic. But it also proved to be an absolute weakness in relation to what he really intended: to preserve autonomy. Catalonia's autonomy is a completely empty institution of sobriety, a simple gull manager. The parliamentary self-censorship before the threats of the Constitutional Court also ends with any trace that Parliament can represent politically the people's views. The objective of independence must not be to preserve autonomous institutions at any cost, but to prepare resistance against the State in order to exercise the right to self-determination. And all sustained mobilization has to generate a demand program. Mobilizations are used to identify the State as an authoritarian and demophobic state and to build strength and confidence. But they must also be used to generate a political program that puts on the table the end of repression, the better of the living conditions of the popular classes through the exercise of full political and economic sovereignty and the exercise of the right to self-determination of the Catalan Countries. The right to self-determination, that is, full political and economic sovereignty, is an irrevocable right, which cannot be a currency of change in political negotiation. And all that we'll win, we'll win, and we'll only win from massive popular mobilization and widespread civil disobedience. Three examples: September 20th at its CUP, October 1st referendum, occupation of the airport the proposed dilluns. From 2006 until now, the State has been systematically closing all doors to politics. Meanwhile, the authoritarian drift to the Catalan Countries and the conjunct of the Spanish State has been demolishing. And now they also forbid, through the Constitutional Court and with threats of imprisonment, to speak simply of sovereignty and self-determination in itself of the Parliament of Catalonia. The dialogue without self-determination, without total amnesty, without civil, social and political rights, does not represent any solution for the social majority of this country in the conquest of national, social and genere liberation. All those people who are manifesting these days and all those who are manifesting massively in the propers, including the general wave, which is still more massive than the previous ones, the strength of the people, will not be thrown back before anything, by more police violence, by more state terrorism and by more exercise they deploy. Now it's time to overrun the state and overrun the state of autonomy. The closure of files with the performance of the Squadron Mosses and with direct coordination with the National Police and the Civil Guard marks a point of difficult return in relation to the government and the movement for self-determination. And, to end – I finish, President – we call on dignity, to persevere in massive and sustained mobilization in time. We will prove, as we have done on countless occasions, that we will not surrender to the defense...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.28.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.29.0	...of our rights. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.30.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.31.0	Thank you very much, President. I only have five minutes, so I have to get to the point. I shouldn't devote half a minute to Mr. Torra, but I am under an obligation to assess his non-conviction yesterday. Yesterday you appeared, as always, late and evil, with an unbearable dose of cynicism and, since you use the term, dishonestly, deeply dishonestly. If someone beat you up, I'd condemn you by the minute. How would you feel if, in addition to not condemning it, I fell for you saying that beating is an action of peaceful resistance? Thus hundreds of savagely assaulted Catalans felt, who saw how their president not only did not condemn, but said that they were – I quote textually – "actions of peaceful resistance. Yesterday you were walking with Mr Ibarretxe; you might as well have explained to him how to make mutis through the forum discreetly. But I am afraid that, given some of the information, if confirmed, that has appeared in these last days and that it is located in Geneva leading the creation of the Democratic Tsunami, that of the honorable exit..., perhaps you arrive late. We'll see about that. But let's get to the point of this intervention. I would like to thank the state security forces and bodies, the Civil Guard, the National Police, the urban guards. I want to transfer the support of millions of Catalans, because we are millions who know that yours is not violence, to what you in democracy are called ‘the legitimate use of force to guarantee order and coexistence. Thank you very much for protecting us. [[Greetings.]] Thanks also to the thousands and thousands of decent team mossos. It's not your fault you get orders from some truly unbrained people at times. I myself have the honour of sharing many hours of my life with you. I know your vocation of service and your decency. And thanks, of course, also to firefighters, cleaning brigades, services as well, cleaning operators. You have the honor, at last, of bringing civilization after barbarism into our cities. I want to go back to millions of scared Catalans these days. You're not alone. I know I represent a small political group here, but we will multiply as many times as necessary so that you never feel alone. I assure you that those leaders of the so-called Democratic Tsunami will answer to the justice of the most serious crimes committed these days. I guarantee you that you will pay out of your pockets – out of your pockets – for the most serious damage caused. Democracy will always prevail. And I want to end this intervention with the most important part for me. I want to address the young Catalans, left-wing, right-wing, nationalist, Catalanist, Spanish-speaking, and I share their ideology. And I want to ask you to be rebels, but really rebels; do not give your soul to any politician, to me either, but much less to those who ask you to risk your physical integrity while they go in an official car and earn 152,000 euros a year, like the Catalan Gandhi we have here, Quim Torra. [[Greetings.]] There is nothing more rebellious – there is nothing more rebellious – than to own your own destiny. I am forty-three years old, I will never again be eighteen, neither twenty, nor twenty-two, but I have had them, and I speak with knowledge of cause: you will miss every day you miss class for nothing. When you go looking for work, when you have to go out to that jungle where life sometimes becomes, there will be neither Puigdemont nor Torra to help you, you will be alone, with your knowledge, experiences, illusions, also with your fears. When that happens, you will regret giving not even half a minute to unscrupulous politicians who tried to use you as human shields, like kamikazes, for a lost and absurd cause. I want to ask you, young people, that you study a lot, yes, that you enjoy life, too – I have done a lot, at that time – but that you respect your elders – that you respect your elders – because when you lack the only thing that will comfort you is to know that you were always at their side, and not doing the idiot around. And neither Torra, nor Puigdemont, nor I can ever give it to you. Being rebellious is taking on one's own real responsibilities, not burning urban furniture and blaming others for one's own mistakes. Being rebellious is not assaulting anyone; that's what any, any animal does, that's very simple. Being rebellious is to contain the worst instincts and be able to live together civilizedly. In short, being rebellious, friends and friends, is being human, not behaving like crazy animals. It's up to you to choose what you want to be. I don't lose hope, I listened yesterday to the young people of S'Ha Afinet! and I know that, in Catalonia, of all ideologies, there are still wonderful young people. Thank you so much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.32.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.33.0	Good morning, President, President of Parliament, Members, Members. This week the Spanish State has written its own feeling. It will not be immediate, but the feeling is an attack on independence as a political option, a direct attack on democracy and human rights, which will generate irreparable consequences. They have chosen to defend the unit of the kingdom in exchange for the degradation of its democracy, its international reputation. They have chosen repression and mockery, revenge, and they are working us every day even harder to build an independent republic that allows us to live in a more democratic, freer and fairer society. We will not give up, we will not give up, we will not give up, despite threats and despite repression. Sentence is a historical – historical – error, which will provoke a political terratremol, as it is already doing, and they must be made clear. The error with the State has brought us all the way here, and this error of this kind will lead us to definitive freedom. The State says again that Catalonia and its citizens must shut up, that they have no right to decide their future, that if they try to defend democracy they will find repression. The freedom of expression is attacked, the right is attacked at the demonstration. Second of all, you can't even talk about everything in this Parliament anymore. So no, we won't give up, we won't pray to their threats, we'll persist in institutions and we'll persist in the street. We won't leave institutions, because they're the migrating tool that still allows us to help our people today and try to make them have a better life. And we will not abandon the streets or abandon the squares, because the peaceful resistance, the mobilization, the disobedience, yes, also the civil disobedience, always peaceful, are, with the ballot boxes and with the votes, our best tool, perhaps the only tools we have today. We're engaged, we're outraged, we're fucked, like most people in this country. And don't be mistaken: not all companies are independent, because to be engaged today it just needs to be democratized. We feel a deep frustration before the attack, the abuse that the State does, that it is only moving for revenge, for the sake of generating pain, to scare us, that rejects politics – politics – as a way to resolve a conflict that is political. We understand the impotence that people feel on the street, because we also feel this impotence. But we don't stop. It won't be quick, as we liked, but we'll take this state into a table and vote in a self-determination referendum. We're millions, more than we've ever been, and we've gone out into the street massively and peacefully. They won't be able to put up with us. You want us to come here today to talk only about violence, a few that hurt us and a few ways that we reject with all strength and with all strength. It's the same for us if they're infiltrated or irresponsible, but the images of the two behind us don't represent us and we don't want them to repeat, they don't represent the U of October or the people who have rejected the sentence. Nor do some of the actions of the police, not the Mossos or the National Police, which mislead the work of most professionals and which are inadmissible and which can be investigated and solved now. [[Greetings.]] More transparency, more communication – more transparency and more communication. Pros overruns, pros open heads, pros rubber pilots. There are protocols, approved by this Parliament, that must be completed. A democratic police officer doesn't run over people. [[Greetings.]] Whoever wants to perform the violence will always – always, always – have our rebuff and never of life will be able to do it on our behalf. It's all he needs, all of it. But let us not forget why we are here: a hundred years of prison is a saving answer. [[Greetings.]] An answer saves a petition of more than 2 million people and a majority of Parliamentarians. The reference is the proposal to win all elections in Catalonia – all elections in Catalonia. Our way is democracy and people's strength to defend our rights. A mobilization that we always understand is peaceful and that we will never give up. With the sentence, the State confirms repression as a tool to absolve the one who never wins at the polls, because at the polls we always win at the polls. But the conflict is not solved with more conflict, but seeking a democratic solution. With this political judgment we have seen how people have been judged by their ideas, their political ideas, and by the fact of organizing a referendum and allowing people to vote. A hundred years of winning a bunch of tough men who were his escho companions, who were here, here, here, there, and don't judge them for the facts. It is intended to punish a political movement that generates patience for the people who were part of the government of this country, for the president of the Parliament of Catalonia and for members of civil society. Condemn all these people so they can't condemn a whole town. There is no other option for Catalans than to build a new state to escape the repression they impose on us. Our proposal is clear and we have repeatedly explained it: to force the State into a table to negotiate a political solution. And they don't sit with us, sit between them, like they did yesterday, and they have to sit with the Catalan parties to find a solution. And the solution is to exercise the right to self-determination. And we know that it will be very difficult, and we know that it will be necessary to force the State, and we know that we will have to use the path of the institutional dialogue; but it will not be enough. It will take a lot of work on the fronts at a time, it will take a lot of work on the mobilization, as an essential tool, it will take a lot of work on the opportunities at international level, to reach such a simple space: to sit down and talk. It is easy, it is said to be political. We want the Spanish State to sit on a table and listen to the Catalans. His fall, as he always gave them and said Oriol Junqueras, continues to feel an empty fall. And we'll put amnesty and self-determination on the table. It is necessary to make politics a political conflict. We can hardly start a stage of negotiation with prisoners and prisoners and with a general cause that also affects many companies that are here. The space has to be shut down... the repression has to be shut down. In this country now is the time to accumulate strength and to grow, to do so again with the certainty, now, that we will win. It is not the time to set dates, but to work on those consensuses that represent 80_percent of Catalonia's citizenship, to find agreements among all the multiple actors. And here is where Esquerra Republicana believes that the proposal made to us today by the president and that we have just met must be brought; a proposal that we will value, but that is in the great agreements, it is in the great agreements where independence has always advanced, it is in the great agreements where we have always made great, and this we believe is the way. The broad consensus is our strength. In any case, if one thing is certain that this conflict will not be resolved in any case with a hundred years of imprisonment, only voting and more democracy. Hundred years of state shame, ballots and votes. More repression, more freedom. The more threats, the clearer we have to go back. Freedom, self-determination and independence. Amnesty, referendum and republic. We still believe in sleep, because it's not only possible, but it's essential. Visca Catalunya! [[You're looking for "Lliure! Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.34.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Albert Batet has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.35.0	Many thanks, very honorable President Torrent. Many honorable President Torra, Vice Presidents, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies, on October 14, 2019 will pass to the history of Catalonia as a sad day, a very sad day. One hundred years in prison. They've hurt us, they've hurt us a lot. Oriol Junqueras, Vice-President of the Puigdemont Government and Councillor of Economy, thirteen years in prison; Jordi Turull, Councillor of the Presidency, twelve years in prison; Dolors Bassa, Councillor of Benestar and Treball, twelve years in prison; Raül Romeva, Councillor of External Action, twelve years in prison; the very honorable President of the Parliament of Catalonia, Mrs. Carme Forcadell, eleven years and a half in prison; Josep Rull, Councillor of Territories and Sustainability, two years and a half in prison; Joaquim Forn, Councillor of Interior, ten years and a half in prison; Joordi Sánchez, President of the Catalan National Assembly, new President of the Council; Joaquim de Presordim. One hundred years in prison for innocent people, one hundred years in prison for October is a barbarity. And now, this president of the Puigdemont government and the rest of the members of the executive, in exile. Do they think that's normal? As President of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, we express our rebuff to an unjust and inhuman feeling, a feeling that does not only condemn a government and social leaders, a feeling that condemns us all, all the more than two million voters in the referendum, to the 'yes' and 'no'. There is no reason, no reason, to keep the political and social leaders of October 2017. Eleven years in prison, that hurts. It hurts the convicts, the families, it hurts a lot. It hurts how the October U police rape hurt us. It hurts politics, it hurts democracy, it hurts everyone that they think political conflicts should be resolved with politics, and it hurts everyone that they think that in democracy political conflicts should be resolved by voting. A Supreme Court ruling that there was no solution to the conflict, as there was no solution to the conflict in October's fucking coups, as there was no solution to the conflict applying 155, as there was no solution to the conflict sending the prosecutor's office, as there was no solution to the conflict removing the Government and dissolving the Parliament, as there was no solution to the conflict not respecting the results of the democratic elections and investments here in the Parliament of Catalonia, like that of President Puigdemont. Bringing politics to justice is not a solution, it's irresponsible. As Jordi Sánchez says, the feeling shows that when the unit of Spain comes into play, justice and the state of right arise through the window. And the Financial Times said that prison sentences cannot solve the crisis in Catalonia. And today, here and now is the time to talk about rights, because that's about rights and freedoms. Rights are legal, social and ethical principles of freedom, principles that guarantee coexistence between citizens, and rights and freedoms are the alternative to conflict, are the counterposition to conflict, resolve conflicts. Is there no reason, the citizenry of Catalonia, to be outraged? Citizenship has the whole right of the world, but always in a form and a civic and peaceful way. From here we condemn all violence, all exhibition of inciivism, generated by any person, think what you think. As Mr. Iceta himself recognized, the independence movement is not violent. As President Puigdemont said, the U of October never saw arsonists grab ballot boxes or print papers. We don't need the rape to win; in any case, the State needs it to defeat us. This is why we claim that independence is not violent, and in the same way we claim that independence has the right to claim its rights, because rights never cause conflict. It's his denial of all conflicts. And as the chairman of the Junta Group for Catalonia, we condemn any kind of aldorull, of public disorder. Let me be very clear: it is not the path, it is not our path, it has never been our path, nor will it be our path. This parliamentary group will not accept that no one is complicit in violence, boss. But now you also let me tell you that we appreciate the work of security and squadron mosses. Quin cynicism, which today comes here the 155th, which dissolved a parliament and ceased a government and sent Major Trapero to the National Audience, which come here to defend the Cosos de Mosso d'Esquadra, when they sent their bodies and superiors to the prosecution [[remorse of the voice]] , when they have applied a 155 that has totally affected the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad That's cynicism, that's irresponsible. But let us also, like the parliamentary group, reiterate the commitment to demand responsibilities and debug them, before the disproportionate actions of the safety nets. No tolerance for the fact that we are removed from the democratic polices of the 21st century. One hundred years in prison – one hundred years in prison – and zero political proposals, no political proposals. And that's politics, that no one is fooled. What is at stake at these moments are the rights and freedoms of all the citizens of our country, having the ideas that they have. The sentence condemns the defendants, but it threatens us all. It is a democratic retreat without precedent, because it elaborates on the fundamental rights: of assembly, of manifestation, of association, of expression, of thought, of participation. Rights and freedoms that we have given to each other, that we have given to each other with respect, that are the basis of a democratic state, that are the basis of a state of right. Rights and freedoms that have been severely violated. We have been in Catalonia many years since the rights and freedoms were violated. And when these rights are not respected, with rights that have a great, broad social consensus, and when they are violated, when these rights recede, as the feeling does, politics has to act, it has to resolve the situation. Politics must dialogue, it must talk, it must agree, it must negotiate, it must recognise the conflict and it must be resolved. But, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, It is a difficult irresponsibility that Mr. Pedro Sánchez talks to the People's Party, Citizens and We can about the political conflict in Catalonia and does not want to talk to the political forces that govern the Government of Catalonia, that won the European elections, that won the elections to the Congress of Deputies and that won the municipal elections, and that wants to divide the Catalan society only by listening to one part and underserving the other. It's a hard irresponsibility of Mr. Pedro Sánchez. That's a little bit serious, and that's a little responsible. How long will this situation last? Please, politics, dialogue and democracy. But dialogue really, not those who come here, if you talk about it, dialogue and politics and so on, and then we don't do anything, and then we freak out when we put a rapporteur in a dialog table. Dialeg and valiant politics must, willing to negotiate and resolve a political conflict. Because the same Financial Times warns that not resolving the political conflict in Catalonia involves instability in the Spanish State. And now it's time to put politics back at the center of the table. Politics without apriorism, without conditions, without renunciation, without revenge or humiliation. The politics for the sake of the state, which does not want to see and does not want to feel the majority feeling of Catalan society. The politics behind the violation of individual rights and coalitions for electoral reasons, because the governments of the People's Party and the PSOE that they have done together with Ciutadans and Vox have never been political, has been maneuvering to rescue a political regime that is making it worse. We need to abandon irresponsibility and electoralism, we need responsibility and respect, we need to abandon the attempts to undermine the freedoms of Catalans and Catalans as an excuse to build a failed state, with a monastic crisis, with an institutional crisis, with a crisis in the judicial system, with an economic failure up to and including pensions. And it's time to look beyond a bunch of votes, from a schooner here and here, from the next elections, from the own election poll, and beyond a few short-flying decisions. Now it may be at the height of the moment, and it may be at the height of the moment and read the events thinking more in the next generation than in the own choices. It may be at the height of the moment, and there's enough repression. Proud of repression, prob lems, prob lems, prob lems, prob lems, prob lems. Political cal, negotiation cal and pact cal. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we had hopes in you, but at the length of all this time, in a sense of doubt, you have seen that you have the opportunity to act responsibly, and if you do not do so you will be converting the Spanish State into an illiberal state, like Turkey, where the limits between the legislative, executive and judicial branches have disappeared. Is that what they want? I go back to politics, I go back to the dialect, I respect the ballot box, I respect the votes, I go back to democracy. We... Spain is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.36.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.37.0	... – I finish, Mr President – Spain is skipping pacts of civil and political rights that signed the year 76, and is not considering the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Working Group. We won't tolerate it. We'll defend the rights. Catalans and Catalans have rights, and we defend them all, and we defend them all for everyone. Don't wait a hundred years...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.38.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.39.0	... justice – I finish, president – cannot wait, democracy cannot wait, the dialog cannot wait. We follow the table and talk. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.40.0	Thank you, Congressman. Once the representatives of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups spoke, the President of the Generality had the floor to reply. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.41.0	Yeah, nice late; again, good morning. To Ciutadans, of course, you say to me, honourable Member, "Criticizing a sentence is calling the rebel. I don't know. Did I get it right? Did you really say that, you? Did you really dare say that? I mean, is the UN rebel? Is the World Organization against Torture rebel? Is Amnesty International rebel? Is the PEN Club rebel? Are the Nobel Prizes that have been shown in favor of our companions rebellious? And so long as we criticize this feeling, because it's an unfair feeling, and we won't accept it. We will never accept this sentence. [[Greetings and remorse.]] You're tying error back error...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.42.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.43.0	...from the general policy debate and the motion of censure, last week's intervention, and all this was somehow masking it with this report that you have built, therefore, of the violence of independence, and, as I said the other day, up to being a kafkià point, which, accused of this violence, we are able to defend one time and another. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.44.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.45.0	So we've condemned him all the time he's ever done, this violence, and we'll do it again, of course, we'll tell them to condemn the violence when it happened again. Indeed, we condemn her. And you're very concerned about the image of Catalonia, but you're looking at the international press, you're looking at if anyone who shouldn't be worried is just Spanish, the reputation of Spanish democracy. When the Council of Europe asks Spain and Turkey to investigate what is going on in time to deal with its political dissidents, I think we have already reached the end of the road of what the credibility of the Spanish democracy in the world supposes at these times. To the Party of Socialists, you talk about the state of law and that you are listening to the feelings, but forgive me for saying it with a happy phrase from Congressman Jordi Turull, memorable: "This is no longer a state of law, it is a state that pulls for the right and that when you decide that you need to unbutton the independence movement, then everything goes well. It's still going. It's just that we've seen how it all goes: courts, locksmiths, everything went, because the unit in Spain justifies it all. And I did, I was waiting here for the Socialist Party that you went out and said, "We don't agree with this feeling, because it seems disproportionate to us. At least say that. "We do not agree with the rights..., that not only for the independenceists, not only for the Catalan citizen, but for any Spanish citizen, "... the limitation of rights that this feeling supposes in terms of freedom of expression, in terms of right of assembly, of demonstration. And above all I was hoping that you would say to me: "And as long as in this Parliament of Catalonia you can talk about everything, and the Socialist Party will be at your side because in this Parliament you can talk about everything and you can talk about the right of self-determination. Of course I was expecting this today from the Socialist Party. Because this feeling places us in another dimension. Until now, you were hypothesized and cabal, not now, we have a feeling with concrete texts, which are a real attack on the right state, precisely, on the right that we thought we had secured and conquered. And I would always have imagined that the Socialist Party would always be on the side of all citizens' rights defenders. Talk about dialing, too. But it's the dialog of these magical words that we use each other, isn't it? : « Let's talk about dialog, « I want dialog, « I want dialog... Everyone wants dialog. But it's that the dialog has to be done somehow. We tried. Look, I've been at two meetings with Mr. Pedro Sánchez, both in Moncloa and Pedralbes, and I was able to see the negotiations that followed in that timid attempt at a first-time effective dialogue between Spain and Catalonia, in which it seemed that Spain recognized us as a political subject. And it was only to put a full blank, in which we say, "Who is Catalonia's proposal, who is the proposal of the Kingdom of Spain and who is a rapporteur to be able to go ahead and give compliments, so, this dialog, which ended the dialog, huh? Therefore, when we speak of a dialect, when we speak of a sincere, honest, valiant dialect, we speak of going to a sincere, honest and valiant dialect; if not, we are prostitutes of words. In the same way, you could have kept me three days quiet, and that sounds like an absolute falsehood to me, huh? From day one, we're out. On the first day, two hours later, in the Palau de la Generalitat, with an institutional declaration that we would have liked, therefore, that we had accompanied ourselves other institutions of the country and it was not possible, in which we rejected the sentence, in which we put ourselves at the side of the rights and freedoms and that, therefore, we already set the pattern of what it was..., we believe, would be the popular expression of a citizen who feels outraged, undertaken and fucked, as the Sabria deputy says. Actually, that's how we feel about citizenship, that's how we feel about all the folds. Since that day, this government has continued to give its face, always and at all times, to the Executive Council of the weekend, managing all the incidents during all these days. Therefore, I do not accept that we have quiet roms. We have continued to work, as we have always done, since the first day, this working government. And he accused me of making a delusional speech. Jo, you'll forgive me, won't you? , of a left that I also say... – it's the last one, isn't it? – a left that is supposed to be the left of the left, that is to say the president or a president of the Generalitat of "activist, so, now..., I don't know, honestly. But, go on, a delusional speech... why a delusional speech? A speech that simply focuses on putting the emphasis on the civil, social and political rights of the citizenry? ; a speech that talks about the end of repression to achieve amnesty? ; a speech that talks about the exercise of the right to self-determination? But exercise, huh? Not from the right's permission to self-determination, no, no, from the ways in which we realize the right's exercise to self-determination, because if it's a right, we have to exercise it. Is that a delusional speech, Mrs. Albiach? With a social engine, how can the assumptions be? I, tanmateix, don't you think you can talk about these three points? You said, "Let's talk. We talk, but if you think this is a delusional speech, actually talking is a little complicated too. In the same line, I think, that the companies of the CUP, these are the truncated themes about this national agreement on which we should agree. I also wanted to say what my position is and what I'm going to defend. But the right to self-determination, the civil and social rights and ending the repression with amnesty seem to me to be phoneous, truncated, at this stage that is taking place. I said what my position was with respect to how we have to carry out the exercise to the right of self-determination, to give it content to "we will do it again, because we will give it content to this" we will do it again. To the People's Party, nine threats, now to the Democratic Tsunami. I said this before in my speech, we reject all the rapes that have occurred, all of us, but we do not accept that it is intended to criminalize the peaceful and non-violent movement. Civil disobedience cannot be criminalized. And, therefore, I do not tolerate you criminalizing the Democratic Tsunami [[remorse of the voice]] And all the people who showed up democratically, peacefully...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.46.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.47.0	...in a nonviolent way like the Democratic Tsunami. It seems like an intolerable threat to me, and I wanted to say it here too. To the companies of Esquerra, of Junts per Catalunya, yesterday, effectively, to the march for freedom to Girona, that I have had the honor to be able to share with the lehendakari Ibarretxe, a person who esteems Catalonia and that I think the Catalans we esteem and respect, we say: "They want you divided and violent, and you have to be united and peaceful. I think it's exactly this summary of the situation right now in Catalonia. That's what the State wants – they've always wanted it, huh? –: « Before it breaks Catalonia. Therefore, we are united, we stand firm in institutions, we decide to move forward, determined; yes, we do, containing the words, because the words we have to put into practice. And I'm making this word-concretion proposal that I announced to you today. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.48.0	Thank you, President. Next, there is a turnaround for parliamentary groups and sub-groups. In the first place, has the word, for a time of five minutes, the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán, on behalf of Grup Parlamentari de Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.49.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Torra, aren't you tired of cheating? Are you really not tired of going out here and trying to keep fooling all Catalans? Stop talking on behalf of the UN, stop talking on behalf of the Council of Europe, the European Union, stop already, stop cheating, please, that is not true. And all Catalans know that. I also say one thing to you: it is not that the parties of the European Union have a very good concept of you, Mr Torra, who have already condemned you for your xenophobic and racist rhetoric. Don't appeal to the European Union anymore, leave it now. (Applause.) Stop insisting on fakes, really. And above all, stop coming here to make yourself the victim: you are not the victims. And, above all, do you know what they are not? Heroes. The heroes are those Catalans who have been suffering for years, the heroes are those Catalans who are now living in fear and do not go out into the streets because of the riots of their totalitarian tsunami. Those are the heroes in Catalonia, not you, Mr. Torra. (Applause.) Not you. It's been a long time since we came to warn you, we knew this was going to happen and it hurts my soul to have been right – it hurts my soul. And not only do I tell you, Mr Torra, but I also tell the Socialist Party. We've been warning for days how dangerous it was that Mr. Torra had crossed that red line. A week ago, during the motion of censure, you didn't want to see it. I'm asking you not to look away today. Today I ask you not to leave aside our differences and to go together in the defense of freedom and coexistence in Catalonia, because we cannot be late and bad again. Not this time. And to separatism is that the face has already fallen, it is that you can no longer look at it, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you have dropped the face and you have seen the deep anti-democratic face that you have. [[The speaker shows an image to the chamber.]] How, if not – how, if not – do you explain this burning Catalonia, Mr. Torra, who says I make it up? How do you explain these images, Mr. Torra? How do you explain the consequences of that totalitarian tsunami? Stop talking about Gandhi and Luther King as our streets continue to burn in Catalonia, Mr. Torra. [[Greetings.]] You've had the defiance of talking about undercovers. How many undercovers are there in Catalonia, Mr. Torra, who are able to occupy an infrastructure like the airport? How many undercovers, Mr. Torra? I'm asking him. I'm going to tell you one thing: I, for the moment, the only undercover I know here is you. Today we knew from the press that you met several times with those investigated in the terrorist plot. Explain to us once and for all what it has to do with those radical separatist commands that intended to alert in Catalonia. Explain to you, Mr. Torra. Face it, get out here and face it. Look, I'm gonna tell you something... [[Greetings.]] You are still in time to do one good thing for all Catalans: stop fuelling the fire of the radical separatist commands, stop this totalitarian tsunami before it continues to do more damage, stop this tsunami of violence before it has turned back. Stop it, Mr. Torra; stop it and then go know. Because you don't represent anyone anymore. Because you yourself have disqualified yourself from taking the lead in your government, a government that should work for all Catalans. Because you've definitely erased yourself from reality, if you've ever been in it. Look, it is urgent that you leave, precisely so that we can rebuild what you have destroyed, so that we can unite again what you have divided and to return..., and return hope and security to all Catalans, who are already very tired of seeing you trample and violate your freedoms and your rights day after day, Mr Torra. Stop fooling the Catalans at once. You were coming here today again to promise, huh? , another new promise of independence, another that adds to those unfulfilled promises of independence. Today he was talking about a new constitution for 2020. Mr Torra, this film we have already seen and the worst of all is that we have already suffered the consequences of this film, we continue to suffer, with a contempt of our institutions, with a flight of unprecedented companies, with a break in the coexistence that is facing the Catalans among themselves. It's just that we've already seen this movie, Mr. Torra. Leave it now. Don't fool the Catalans anymore. Don't insist. Look, I'm going to tell you one thing: the Catalans already have a constitution, we already have a constitution that represents us all, and it is precisely by virtue of this Constitution and by virtue of Article 155 that their threats are frustrated. [[Strong applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.50.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the return of Mr Miquel Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.51.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Generality, we have made an approach to the intervention that you do not acquit, but you do not give us any reason to change your mind. Look – and I say it with my hand – we do not see it able to serve the country's conjunction. Today, Catalonia, the Generality, is an autonomous community. You were the same as saying: "I'm not president to manage an autonomy. And I, when I read it, I heard it, and I understood what I meant. And it's true. And made like the last few days they have it as a manifesto. And that's why I'm allowed to call you... you were talking about honesty and consistency. Catalonia will not cease to be an autonomy in the next three years – let's leave it here, don't go on here. We have told him that we believe that his actions and attitude do not guarantee the coexistence or security of the citizen or the defence of self-government. We can't see him putting his life together before a legitimate desire for independence; but that can't be allowed by the President of the Generality. We can't see him standing ahead of everyone's rights to the success of activism for the independence of those who think like you and yourself. We can't see him defending the self-government we have, because he wants to sacrifice it for the benefit of what we understand to be a unilateral and illegal chimera that has already failed. President, we believe that the only way out for you is to let others write the own chapter of Catalonia's history, without more divisions, without more frustrations and above all without repeating the mistakes that have brought us here. And you have literally proposed to us today to repeat the mistakes that have brought us here, to judge and to judge. I can only tell him that I'm back to suggest that he read the Financial Times editorial again and again, which actually says a lot of things, but claims that Spain is a state of law. You hide in saying it's not; you have all the right, like all of life, it's opinionable. That's perfect, that's what I'm saying, that I know him well. But here there is a primacy of the law, there is a separation of powers, there is a guarantee of rights and freedoms and a democratic system. And you said, "No, it's not a democracy because there's nothing you can talk about here. Look, it's not true, we can talk about everything here, but what we can't do is decide about everything. That's the little problem. And we don't want to turn the Parliament of Catalonia into an atelier, with all respect for the aeliers, because here you go to make decisions. And when a person claims to make decisions that are not tied to the legal mark, he commits an illegality. And that's it. So go back to reading that editorial. And, indeed, sometimes we use the dialog word perhaps with an excess of rhetoric. But, excuse me, you say... when you talk about the dialog, you're always talking about the dialog with the state institutions. But if we don't do it here! With what legitimacy, with what authority can we demand and ask for a dialogue with others if we don't practice it here? Allow me, President, you got tired of convoking the space for the dial. You're right, I'd be right if I told you that some people decided to take part in it, but only two meetings were held. You're talking about two... And here? The government's proposal that we can discuss. For you, the dialog is a very curious thing, he says: "If you accept 100_per_cent what we want, it's dialog, and if you don't accept it, it's that I'm not democrats – already to make things clear. This is what you're doing to us. We can't accept it there. The debate, the dialog implies the ability to give in, the ability to empathize, but it has a preliminary question – which allows me, President, to doubt that you really have internalized – which is respect for the position of others. When one is so convinced that he is right at his side and that the others are not democrats or deserve the least respect simply because they do not share these ideas, the dialog is impossible. And in this you also made it very clear this summer, he said: "The next stage is a stage of confrontation. And allow me, president, confrontation and dialog are absolutely different camps; there is no possible intersection. Certainly, the political moment does not help; certainly, an electoral summons does not help, but it is you, before we had this debate, before we had the feeling, that your political position was confrontational. Therefore, do not ask what you are not sincerely willing to offer and let others try to do so there where you are, for whatever reason you are and probably for your convictions, you have not been able to. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.52.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the turn of the deputy Jessica Albiach, of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.53.0	Yes, thank you, Vice President. President, you know that I spoke to several members of your government yesterday to warn you that today's appearance would not serve to advance in solutions. In the context of an electoral context, with Catalonia used as an electoral tool, with this Parliament that is once more accustomed to the performances of various parliamentary groups, we made it clear that today's appearance could serve to give some explanation, but it would only be an electoral advocate. And that's exactly what happened; if not, we don't understand the speech you made today. And that's why I was insisting on the members of the government, and then I was hoping that you will – today – communicate with us, that we will convene a meeting with the different presidents of the parliamentary groups of this chamber so that we can have a debate and a dialogue that will be, a real dialogue, an honest dialogue and a dialogue where we don't have the focus today and we don't have the cameras and once again out a television set. And you didn't. You had all the right, obviously, to ignore us, but it's a mistake more of this government, a government that we see without a project and that surely has not convened us to a meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary groups of this chamber because you have nothing to say to us or you don't know what to say well, because we begin to understand – each time we have more evidence – that they have very different things to say to us as a function of five members of the government is spoken. And I think that with a part of the city shaken, with the frustration of the street, with the independent leaders in prison, the political class needs to know where it is and what its obligation is, and you are not complete, president, with your responsibilities. We have huge reptiles in Catalonia and some occupy us today. The first must be to obtain the freedom of prisoners and political pressures. He knows that we always defend the way that is more effective and faster, because we know that we can only have a real debate, a real dialog, and we can achieve a democratic normality, starting – as Mr. Iceta was saying now – to fill the word "newly contained dialog", because each time he is more handy and emptied of so many partisans that he has done, and starting from that moment, also, to open up to us to find a political democratic way out of the conflict. It says in a very simple way: dialog, freedom and solutions, which pass through a future entity that must be referred to the ballot box for the people of Catalonia. But this government, president, can't take this turn. You have the curious virtue, once more, of agreeing to all the opposition over your leave of office. And there's nothing more damaging to Catalonia's self-government than, before the facts that we're patenting, reacting before the Spanish president than the President of Catalonia. And, besides, when he does, he does it with a speech that's full of gesticulation and doesn't allow us to advance a_millimeter in the solutions. And that's why again, president, we're asking you to fold. I insist, this country doesn't have anyone at the wheel, they can't follow that and we need direction, horizon and hope. Neither you are working for solutions nor your governing partners are clear or reacting, so we ask you to take the step for the good of Catalonia, in truth and consistency, so that you can protect Catalan institutions, so that you can, of course, guarantee the rights of demonstration, expression and protest at the time that everyone's security is guaranteed, and that you can govern for all and not just for one part of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.54.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.55.0	Thank you, President. Since the 21st of September of the 17th, the Government of the Improvised Generality, and you know it. Improvisation and more improvisation. We saw him yesterday in his appearance, we saw him today. And I know very hard, Mr. Torra, but we'll say it again: so your government will culminate in the frac that you're working for, together for Catalonia, Convergence and Esquerra will make you pay for all the responsibility and lead the return to order. We repeat: there are two parties that look and wait; look and wait only with interested parties. President, Government, you are turning the scene and criminalizing the people who have suffered the most serious police rape of these days. You've sent four young men to prison. It's already come, from prisoners and political pressures; maybe there's enough. President Quim Torra, Vice President Pere Aragonès, his legitimacy is very fragile, making a turn at the height of the circumstances, please, and making it quick or fold. There's a conflict, of course. The State has worked systematically to generate a conflict – the doctrine of rock in the pure state – a conflict that the Government wants to appease the institutions and a conflict that the movement wants to accentuate and accentuate, meaning doubt. It is clear that the rabies of Catalonia sends a clear message: the people, the youth, the popular classes, the street is mobilized, they fight. And this responds to a structural perception that they have neither a social nor a national future between the system and the regime; nor present, because the systemic violation of rights on the part of the State and the police is flagrant. Because the State has closed all doors to any democratic solution in this country and only offers violence, repression and threats. And that's way beyond independence. Calen political, democratic solutions; indeed: real self-determination, not rhetorical and symbolic, amnesty, repression, social and civil rights and politics for everyone. And, President, the agreements, the great agreements, require great consensus and much cure. The movement and the struggle mark the rhythm and the times, creating the objective conditions without the institutions having to carry out the initiative in false and timeless. Certainly, Mr. Sabria, completely in agreement with you: the police, the Squad Mosos, run over people, and this is absolutely illegal. Rectify, therefore, with us and signify now, if they want – I have just done it – the request for the appearance of the dome of the Mosses to the Commission of the Interior. You have voted against it several times; now you have time. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] so as to correct it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.56.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.57.0	The fight continues with the freedom marches and with the general wave and with the own initiations of civil disobedience.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.58.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.59.0	Dirty the earth! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.60.0	It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.61.0	Thank you very much, President. I have said in text that Tsunami's leaders would answer to justice and I see that he has felt alluded to. Perhaps you feel an irrepressible need to confess yourself. I encourage you to do so if requested by the body; you will feel very comfortable. Let me also ask you some questions on international issues. Look, the right of self-determination in international law is reserved for colonies; Catalonia is not a colony, it is something obvious, but no one recognizes it as such, no international body. Therefore, no one will recognize Catalonia's right to self-determination. Second question. One in life has to be minimally aware of what it is. I know I'm a minority here, so I'm talking two and a half minutes and not five. I assume my reality. The separatist movement on the international scene is a very small thing; you believe yourself Gengis Kan and at the international concert is an eccentric cutting nanoparticle. His international support fluctuates between the ultra-Flanders extremism and the former Communist International, today called « pacifist», when everyone knows that as a pacifist absolutely nothing. Will you once again tell Catalan society and the people who honestly want to believe you that thirty great democracies in the world will recognize Catalonia's independence? Do you want to bring people back to everlasting frustration? Do you want to continue with that utterly empty international discourse of content and full of falsehoods? But, really, they're... they're landing. I just don't know what else to say to him anymore. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I see that I am the only one who had not yet asked him to resign; I had done so so many times in other sessions... Let's see, let's not be confused: indeed, resign. And so it will be all the formations of the plenary that we ask you to resign. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.62.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià has the word again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.63.0	Thank you, President. President... Only a few seconds, to Mrs. Roldán, to say that we will persist, because we are more than 2_million and because we know that these 2_million will continue to grow, and that the positive part is that it will lead us to a republic, that it is the best solution that we can give to the city of Catalonia; the pain is that, while we grow, we feed them to you, and so it will allow them to grow a more time and let them speak a lot more of 'terrorism,' 'commands,', 'leaving' and all that of the little boys. I would say that I look at it, however, because every day they are smaller and smaller and smaller, and we continue to win the elections, with our plurality, independence, self-determination. But you think, because, as I said, every time you're smaller. Our proposal is simple and very clear, and it is to fill the chair that is always empty and dialogue. And the answer was thirteen years for the Junqueras, twelve for the Low Pain, twelve for the Romeva, twelve for the Turull, eleven and a half for the Forcadell, one and a half for the Forge, one and a half for the Rull, one for the Cuixart and one for the Sapphire. Our proposal is to sweat and talk. And I told you before: yesterday you meet in Madrid and still don't dare talk to the Catalans. Our proposal is the dial, but they're afraid to fill the chair. Only four sure endings. They want to start democracy because it's about them, they've got to go to the polls. And so much so that he runs in Madrid, whether he runs the PSOE or the PP: the State is capable of everything – of everything, everything – for the unit of Spain, of everything less to fight there at the polls, less to propose dialogue and to make proposals. And now it's late. You can't hold a town against your will. October 1st, we self-determine, and that doesn't go away. Taxation and repression is the way to make the State, but it's not ours. The consensus in Catalonia to resolve any conflict is always politics and democracy. It will be the people of Catalonia who will decide who this country is to be, even if they start and catch their people. And we won't disappear and we won't stop, this movement doesn't stop with judgment or repression. Arrested her is her defeat. Independence is the movement that has made the most of the 78th Regime and all the power structure that is behind it. And the State has returned with imprisonment, a hundred years. And a hundred years the only thing they do is that all we're doing and fighting is still a little more irreversible. And not so alone – not so alone – a hundred years will make our proposal change: our proposal will continue to fill the cadira and start the dialog. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.64.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.65.0	Thank you, President. Honourable President, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, this is about politics, this is about rights and freedoms, all rights and all freedoms. And the question that we should ask ourselves and that I do it in a very direct way to the 155 matches is: do independenceists have a right to exist? Do we have a right to exist? Do we have a right to think? Do we have a right to want a republic? Do we have a right to talk about sobriety? Do we have the right not to have a king? Do we have the right to want the self-determination of Catalonia? Do the independents have a right? Do we have a right or don't we have a right? Why... do we have a right to vote? Do we have the right to demonstrate peacefully? Do we have a right or don't we have a right? Do we have a right to exist? Because what we see is that what they want is submission and repression – submission and repression. And if we have a right and the answer is yes, then what do they do, to the prison, Vice President Junqueras, Jordi Turull, in Rull, etc.? What are they doing in exile? If we have a right, what are they doing in exile? And if we don't have a right, we need to know that there are more than two million Catalans and Catalans who want the independence of Catalonia and who feel united, who feel determined and who want to be respected, Mr. Iceta, want to be respected. And they want to be respected by all institutions. And see Mr. Iceta here and say, "No, he respects, such, such... Listen to me, Mr. Iceta: but Mr. Pedro Sánchez still has to be president of the Spanish State, doesn't he? It still has to be, doesn't it? Because, of course, you come to talk to us here: "It is you, Mr. President Torra, that you must do this, you must do it there..., coexistence, violence, I don't know what else..., listen to me, and you tell Mr. Pedro Sánchez, you? Is that what you're saying or not? Because, of course, you have a lot of responsibility for Mr. Pedro Sánchez, Mr. Iceta. It also has the responsibility to defend 2_million people living in Catalonia. Or don't we exist for them? Aren't we anybody? I know... with all the love, huh? We're not one of these, but it has to be made clear that it's for nothing. This is the little respect that we have the more than two million Catalans who want the independence of Catalonia. I, from the year 2012 until here, zero political proposals per part seva, zero. Submissive and repressive. So, this isn't democracy, this isn't a right state, when it happens. Because then it is found that these two million people defend their rights, defend their will to be and defend their will to have a right to self-determination. And what's driving him to the other corner is a bunch of clubs, it's prison, it's exile, it's: "You can be independent, but you vote every four years and don't bother very much. You can be independent, but you don't manifest yourself very well, because this can be criminal and can end up in sedition, and if you're a leader of a social entity, look, in prison. You can be independent, but if you're from a government that wants to put the ballot boxes, hey, you know what I mean, huh? , Mr. Torra, go with it, Mr. Torra, because it will fall on you all the weight of the law. That's what they're offering us! I know you're not listening to me, Mr. Iceta, but that's what they're offering us. They do not offer us any more alternative, they do not offer us any more alternative in these terms. And to end, Mrs. Albiach, with all the love, eh? , Mrs Albiach, but the Parliament of Catalonia..., the sovereignty of the 135 deputies is that which leads to the Parliament of Catalonia. And it's good to talk things out of the way, closed, but in a public and open form, because the situation is evident, and the president wants to compare; that it doesn't happen, as it happens to the Barcelona Assembly, that Mrs. Colau falls in love and doesn't do a plethora to the Barcelona Assembly that was planning today not to face a debate with God tomorrow, with a situation that is necessary at these times. With all the love of the world, huh? But that's what it is. We have a sobriety and we have the possibility to do so. The president for responsibility appears, and appears to say that there are seventy independent MPs here..., not seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six—because there are three that cannot be—that want to defend the right of a people to hold self-determination. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.66.0	Thank you, Congressman. I'm done with this point of the order of the day, and as I've announced before, we'll now vote on the alternation of the order of the day... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.67.0	Yes, to demand that you read the request we made in your day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.68.0	All right, we'll read it before the vote. Anyway, let's call it a vote. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Segovia. [[Pause.]] If they want to open a turn of interventions, anyway, I'll give you a minute, Mrs Segovia, and the rest of the groups if they want to. When you're ready, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.69.0	Yes, thank you, President. We have already said, we believe President Tora has been irresponsible and delusional today. We remember that this was to be a specific plethora of voting on a motion for a resolution, but that the lack of agreement between the independent groups did not make it possible either. Maybe Mr. Batet can explain to us why they didn't want to make a ple where we voted. With regard to this vote, we do want to say that there is a secret to the case that is being discussed; that we want to be very careful until there is all the information; that we are surprised that those who all the time defend justice and respect justice use filters to stir up fire and conflict. In this sense, we have already said, we believe that President Torra is not part of the solution, but what is obvious is that Ciutadans neither wants nor can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.70.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Is there any more intervention, requested? [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.71.0	Yes; simply, President, to explain the sentiment of our vote. We shall position ourselves on this proposal. This proposal is part of Ciutadans' intention to be able to promote the culture of por, the doctrine of xoc, the way to generate an absolutely set relation and that is absolutely designed for the apparatuses of the State.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.72.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.73.0	Thank you, President. No, for two questions. One, to announce that we will support the alteration of the order of the day. In fact, we also have a summons from the President to inform the Parliament of the truth or falseness of this information aimed at its relations, direct or indirect, with the accused of alleged crimes of terrorism, on one side. And on the other hand, I wanted to point out a point of order: we would like to know exactly at this point what voting delegations are in force and who are not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.74.0	Any more separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] At this point, Congressman, there is no existing delegation. And, in any case, it is a debate that we know we have kept to the Bureau respect the news that we have known in the past and what it has been informed about, and that we are likely to talk again, in future months, if there is a case of the relevant petitions, Member. If there is no more intervention, shall we proceed to the vote? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! Excuse me, yes, yes, yes. Before voting, however, the secretaries will read [[Funnel veils]] ...Ah! The Vílchez secretary. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.75.0	"Taking into account the plans for violent actions and the possession of explosives precursors that would have been found by various members of the self-appointed CoR within the framework of a judicial investigation for, inter alia, possible crimes of rebellion and terrorism, publicly exposing whether it retracts from having encouraged the radical actions of the CoR and undertakes to abide by the existing rules of our democratic constitutional order and to respect all judicial resolutions, transferring a message of calm and moderation to independent parties and associations, or whether, on the contrary, its policy of supporting these CoRs has not changed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-17-4001.76.0	Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. The request to alter the agenda was rejected by 57 votes to 67, with 8 abstentions. The session's up. Thank you.
