ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.1.0	Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Let us resume the session with the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the prohibition of rescue operations in the Mediterranean. [[Question to the Government on the prohibition of rescue operations in the Mediterranean]] [[300-00160/12]] Presented for the Republican Parliamentary Group, to expose it has the word Mr Ruben Wagensberg. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. Counselor, now more than a year ago, the central government came to Pedro Sánchez with many priorities, a lot of emergencies; among them – probably one of the great priorities – the refugee crisis in Europe; and, therefore, also reverse the harmful political migrations that had already taken the Rajoy government to term. We can't deny that it was an all-encompassing and hopeful arrival, because among its proposals, or if we took over the Socialist Party's electoral agenda in terms of migration policies and legislation, we found fears of repealing the additional law, which was legalizing, right? , which donated the open door to legalize the warm returns. We found that he intended, in his election program, to withdraw the concerts we find in Ceuta and Melilla. We found – all that we are supporters of closing the CIS – that they wanted to reform, they wanted to transform them into centers, at least, more human. Also, in their election program, they wanted to strengthen the asylum offices. Well, that's what happened to the king. For what makes the returns warmer, we find that the summer passed the government of Pedro Sánchez made the return in warmer history: a flight of one hundred and seventeen people. Between 2018 and 2019, €9.9 million has been spent on warm returns. Moreover, with the same three companies that, repeatedly, win public contests for deportation flights. Here's Air Europe, there's Aeronova, there's Swiftair. On the subject of concerts, they have not withdrawn them. And if they're taking them somewhere, they're just doing it to still put more effective methods for border control. The reform of the CIS, obviously, has not arrived either. And the issue of the reinforcement of the asylum offices, neither; it is still incomplete the quotas of relocation and resettlement that have been so long ago that they are already fallen. While all this is happening, during 2018 2,262 people died, offended, trying to create Europe, of which 1,064 lost their lives to the western route, that is, entering the Spanish State– 1,064. Do you know how many people died, the same period of time, 2018, trying to create the border with Mexico and the United States? Three-hundred-seventy-six. That is to say, during 2018, three times as many people died trying to enter the southern border route, to the Spanish state – three times as many people – that people who died trying to enter the United States from Mexico, right? Trump's famous wall. So here's the triple of the dead. We're tanking our ports and Tankmel that we're spending millions of walls up. Never in history have there been so many walls up in Europe as they are now. Since the fall of the Berlin Wall and around the Schengen area, more than a thousand miles of reefs or walls have risen. And this without counting virtual walls in the form of Frontex control or surveillance programs. A given: from 2000 to 2015, the European Union had spent €13,000_million trying to stop migration – €13,000_million. Do you know how much money it's supposed to have won the mafias, trying to get people into Europe? Seven_mil_million euros. It's the same xifra, which spends Europe reinforcing the borders and winning the mafias trying to get people in. The Spanish State is spent thirty-two times more on border control than on asylum policies. And it is that, of course, the refugee crisis in Europe has been the perfect excuse to fortify the border; under the baton, moreover, of the arms industry. And when we talk about this arms industry, there's a lot of business here. For example, the three airlines that we have just commented, that between 2018 and 2019 have won 9,9_million euros..., until companies like Indra, that together with Dragados and Ferrovial, all three of the IBEX, from 2000 until 2018 had rejected contracts worth 125_million euros to strengthen the Spanish border. We also find a lot of armed banking – also Catalan, with Caixabank or with Banc Sabadell – with millions of investments, shares and loans to arms companies and border control technology companies – so to reinforce, right? , to reinforce the idea of a strong Europe – money that proportionally goes to the dead. All a very profitable business, as well as deadly, around the border. And obviously that's all we pay with our taxes, with our consumption. Meanwhile, we also see it all on television. We see misery, we see wars, we see the flight of these people and we see the dead. We see how they cater, more, every day, through the pants of our furniture, to the sea where we are bathing, another time, each summer: the Mediterranean Sea. And what's going on in the Mediterranean has no other name than genocide. It's a genocide in everyone's eyes. A genocide, moreover, that has very direct responsibilities, and that we find them in the governments, in the governments of arrest and, therefore, also in the Spanish Government. The Spanish government is not just an accomplice, but is directly responsible for this genocide. And we can also explain this, for example, through data. Before the locks of the ports, before the blockade of the rescue ships, like the ship of Proactive Open Arms, or like the ship of Aita Mari, already with the Government Sánchez..., therefore, when Pedro Sánchez entered the Government, died one_of_each_forty-one people who tried to create the Mediterranean by the central road – one_of_each_forty-one, with Pedro Sánchez. After the port locks and the blockade of the Open Arms and Aita Mari rescue ships, one _each_night has died. Therefore, the direct responsibility of the Member States of the European Union, and in this case of the Spanish Government, blocking the rescue vessels, is direct from one person to one person to one person to each person, who is dying today, today, trying to create the Central Mediterranean – one person to each person. And the Socialist Party, in case it did not have enough to fail to complete its electoral program in the matter of migration policies, as we have now passed, before the major repte, probably, facing Europe or the world, which are forced migratory flows, we find ourselves... What has Maritime Rescue done, depending on the Ministry of Development? He's decided he's going to give them the subs. You have equipment, like radars nearby, basics to find those boats drifting to the high seas– for example, also, to the south border–..., the spatllates. There's no news that he wants to fix them. There's a summons... there's a lot of summonses, actually, waves from the Maritime Rescue workers. This, for what he does to Maritime Rescue, depends on the Ministry of Development. For what he does to rescue NGOs, like Open Arms and Aita Mari, he decided to block them to port. That's the first one. I didn't have enough of this, but I just threatened them with a fine of 900,000 euros, those who got rescued, pulled a person out of the water. That is to say, if you come to the Óscar Camps, that yesterday he came out of Lampedusa to rescue, if he comes to take a person out of the water and push her to the ship and carry her over here, he will get a fine of 900,000 euros. I had come to say, Pedro Sánchez, that the turnips in Libya, that Libya was a safe port. Libya has returned 38,000 people since 2017. In Libya, we can see that it has been bombarded this week, close to this civil war in which, moreover, the European Union is fully complicit: fifty-three people killed in migrant detention centres. A country where..., you can quickly put any, from your mobiles, to Google "Slave Libya, and you will find chained people coming in slave markets, men; women, coming to be raped. But what did these people think, sending all these people to Libya? They send them directly to death, to slavery. So, that's all we can say, isn't it? Without making a mistake, the government of Pedro Sánchez is directly responsible for this genocide. And, therefore, we see initiatives... like last week, international lawyers have already asked The Hague to investigate European Union member states for crimes against humanity. This was asked because they say that migration policies are directly responsible for the deaths in the Mediterranean. And oh, so much! , which are directly responsible for it. How can they not be responsible, if you impose a fine of 900,000 euros on a boat to rescue people? How can it not be directly responsible, if you place in prison the captain of a ship which, moreover, carries more than fifteen days waiting, almost drifting to the high seas, in order to disembark the rescued people? Therefore, I have already advanced that to the next member of the House, what we will ask in this Parliament is that it urges the Government to denounce national institutions, international institutions, where there is an opportune belief, the deadly migration policies of the Spanish State. We will also ask that the Humanitarian Corridor be asked again, which was approved on July 27, 2017 in this very Parliament, from the hand of Stop Maremortum. And for all this, it will be necessary, Counsellor Bosch, that the Catalan government, despite the obvious lack of competition in this sense, settle down. If you put yourself there, because the urgency that is living in the Mediterranean, if you don't stop dying people every day..., one_of_each_night, right now, trying to create the Mediterranean ends up being offered; one_of_each_night accounted for, huh? That's the things they find. Obviously. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , less – I'm finished, President – rescue boats, fewer dead found, right? , less bones found and, therefore, fewer deaths accounted for. I mean, it's suspicious that there's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.3.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.4.0	...many more dead than they're actually accounted for. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.5.0	Thank you. To answer, the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.6.0	Mr. Member of Parliament, Mr. Wagensberg, I can announce to you from here that, obviously, if this fine of €900,000 is confirmed to Open Arms, to do a job that the governments should do and do not do, but that they do all the contrary, hinder and fight against those who play it to save lives in the Mediterranean doing a job that is necessary and required, if it is confirmed that this fine is imposed, obviously that we will react as to the government – obviously. And we will react to the Spanish State and to the international institutions that we need. I assure you, we'll do our job here, then. Because, we were, what we are very clear about is that rescue is not a result of an ethical will; that it is also – that it is also, of course. But it's not just that. It's also an obligation. According to the international law, we are obliged to undercut those people in danger on the high seas. According to the international law, we are obliged to exercise and contemplate the right of asylum. It is an international standard, recognized, signed by states, among them the Kingdom of Spain. So, it's our obligation. It's not an aesthetic whim, it's not much less. So, okay with this and they see that the situation is very worrying, because the data speak for themselves... you mentioned some and, well, so I would corroborate them, because the tragedy really goes beyond measure and it's necessary for us to do something. Since 2014, more divided_thousand dead. They're people with names and surnames. There are children; there are women; pregnant women; there are great people; there are men; there are all sorts of people, who have names and surnames, and every one of them is a tragedy, not just a jiphre. Almenys 681 died in 2019. This means that the dead in the Mediterranean do not go down, do not decrease, increase. And the measures applied do not make those people who embark so as to save their life – do not make them give up. Politics, therefore, is wrong, it is not a correct policy. Before the closure of European ports that has been donated in the last years, as you said very well, one_of_each_forty-one people is calculated to die in the step from one bank to the other side of the Mediterranean: 2,5_per_cent; 2 and a half percent of the people who tried to create the Mediterranean, therefore, disorganizedly stayed there. Now, with the measures applied to Salvini Island, one_of_each_night. That's to say, we've moved from 2 and a half to 12 per cent – to 12 per cent; that's to say, more than one of two people trying to make the crossing not up to the other band. In 2018, more than fifteen thousand people, who were also trying to create the Mediterranean, did not get or save, or were returned to Libya's costs. There, according to the agency of United Nations, UNHCR, they were arbitrarily detained, abused, tortured, come with slaves or slaves. So, here's another derivative tragedy that escapes our eyes, and as if it's not talked about, so sometimes it doesn't seem to happen; but it does. And as the deputy also pointed out before, many of these figures and many of these tragedies simply go unnoticed. They go unnoticed because they don't talk, because there's no pictures, because it's harder than before, huh? , achieve constancy and get information get what's actually going on. And as the dead continue, so this policy of blockade continues, this policy of the fortress to Europe that is winged, that is intended to shield before this dramatic reality. While I'm dying in the Mediterranean, in Europe we spend money building walls. More than a thousand miles of walls to European borders in states like Greece, Hungary, Bulgaria, Austria, the Baltic Countries and the Kingdom of Spain too; the Kingdom of Spain is also responsible for this mistaken policy that is not improving the situation, but is causing much more deaths than before. Therefore, here we have to say very clearly that the Spanish Government is complicit in this tragedy that is taking place in the Mediterranean – it is; it is complicit – and, moreover, acts in a manner contrary to the most elementary humanitarian principles: instead of helping to save lives in danger, which is causing more tragedy. Here, of course, therefore, we have to say very clearly, very loudly, we have to denounce: Spain has not even fulfilled the relocation commitments granted in 2015 for the European Union. It was an agreement between the European partners, and this agreement is not complete, the Spanish State. It's a lot on the subject, for example, of the compliment Alemanya is making. That is to say, the government, let's say, conservator of Angela Merkel is more complete with solidarity and humanitarian principles than the supposedly socialist government of Pedro Sánchez. That's it - that's it. The reality today, the reality with which we find ourselves, is this. And more so, in the concrete case of Open Arms, we see how it is announcing that it will act. Not only does he not cooperate, but he will act against those who, playing life, playing their own resources, do what the Spanish government should and does not do, eh? People like..., the ship of Open Arms, which was held a hundred days at the port of Barcelona, the ship Aita Mari, to Pasaia too. And now we have a threat of a fine, on the part of the Spanish Government, to Open Arms and Mr. Óscar Camps, which says that if they return with refugees and land at the ports, any of the ports in the Spanish State, they will be fined with 900,000_euros. Clearly, this is already acting against humanitarianism. It's no longer an accomplice to this leave and this failure, it's acting against it; it's preventing, it's obstructing and sabotaging those who do comply with human duty. That initial gesture of Pedro Sánchez with the ship Aquarius, then passed to history – passed to history. And we ask ourselves whether this change of course has anything to do with the pressure exerted by the ultrathreat, starting with the Italia of Salvini, but also to the Spanish State, so that it does not act in a humane way, but that it applies blockade policies, antihumanitarian policies, policies in many xenophobic cases. Could it be that this is now in the press and that it is allowed to blush for the principles and ideas of the ultrathreat? Well, that's what Pedro Sánchez has to answer. Let's just say saving lives isn't a crime, it's an obligation, we're conscious. And that's why the Government of the Generalitat does try, despite the limitation we have in competitions, in resources, in everything, we do try to act and do something. For example, declare the Catalan ports that the Generalitat manages safe ports, ports where refugees can land. And in this, we will fight hard, and we will also fight for the Spanish government so that this can be accomplished. We already have, therefore, an interdepartmental commission with the departments of Territori, d'Interior, de Salut, de Treball, Exterior, so as to see how we can apply to the maximum, in the most generous way possible, this declaration of safe ports, the assistance to the refugees that arrive and the gathering and the asylum necessary to those people that I need; also the support to entities that are working for safe routes and to allege the situation of all those who risk dying in the Mediterranean : Open Arms to Lesbos or to the channel of Sicily, the program of the Agency of Cooperation to Lebanon, support to Stop Mare Mortum, legal advice to their camps in Greece, etc. 2016..., mirin, a sifra that is quite eloquent: 2016 Catalonia had twenty-eight seats in the state asylum program, to embrace the right of asylum and refuge; 2018, 2,400. In two years, we have moved from twenty-eight seats per asylum to 2,400 seats per asylum. Total Spanish State: 8,500. We are full of our solidarity as much as we can. Before this tragedy – and now I'm finished, President – the Catalan government will not be left with its arms folded. They can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, So let's keep working. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] because in the Mediterranean there is not one more person dying...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.7.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.8.0	...and there Pedro Sánchez and his poor conscience. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on external delegations]] [[300-00161/12]] The next question is about the external delegations; presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. I have the word to expose you, Mrs. Susana Beltrán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.10.0	Thank you. And I say, Counsellor, how do you, who want to separate themselves from Spain, how are you going to get Spain, together with the rest of the Member States of the European Union, to have a common asylum policy within the European Union? Because separating oneself from Spain is separating itself from the European Union as well. How are you going to do that? I'm asking you. All right, foreign delegations, counselor. We have moved from 'Spain steals us to 'Spain spy on us, and the external delegations of the Generalitat of Catalonia are a waste of virtues, just like the other delegations of other autonomous communities. No, they're not transparent... and many of their activities are illegal. Transparency or opacity. Opacity of the Government of the Generalitat. Delegates have not been in this Parliament for more than four years to explain what they are doing – more than four years. 80_per_cent of our appearances in the External Action Committee, relating to your department and, therefore, also to the external delegations, have been blocked by the governing parties– 80_per_cent of our requests for appearances. I can't control it. Delegates' agendas, contact agendas, meetings, etc., are not published – are not published. As if they are published, for example, in the United States transparency register, to which you, with respect to the delegation of Catalonia of the United States, do have to give accounts. Here, meetings, contacts, etc., are not published. There's no transparency. But it's just that, in addition to the opacity, there are abrasions. These deputies, right? , Members of the opposition in my particular case, we are supported by the Bureau of Parliament. What does that mean? It means that, at the request of information of our right, which is also a preferential right, as representatives of the citizens of Catalonia, to access information, you deny that information. Not only do they deny it, they lie to the Court of Auditors. I'll give you just one example, but there are many more. The Independent Diplomat lobby, specialized in secession processes, contracted by the Delegation of Catalonia in the United States and by Diplomat, for an amount of around 1,700,000_euros. Why would the Generalitat of Catalonia want to hire a lobby specialized in secession processes? Why would he want it? I don't know, but I think you can imagine. Requests for information, requests for reports for years– Romeva, Maragall, with you –; denials of information and in the end protections. Amparo means that we have asked a lot of times, you have refused, an independent transparency body has given us reason and you reiterate to deny us the information. Will you explain? Will you take responsibility? And on top of that, they lie to the Court of Auditors. Because the Court of Auditors is told that, well, it turns out that these contracts have a confidentiality clause... no. No, no, This is not what they told us. And we're also going to give it to the Court of Auditors to see that they're lying. If they lie to the Court of Auditors, they deny the information to my group – they deny, and it is a violation of the right of access to information – they are lying to all citizens, and that is very serious. We will give it to you; we will give it to the Court of Auditors to compare their lies with what the transparency body is telling us and their denials of access to information. But we also understand, after seeing the report of the Court of Auditors and our amparos, their repeated denials of access to information and, therefore, lack of transparency and not being able to control them..., we understand, because the external delegations, after seeing the pieces missing from the report of the Court of Auditors, have served to prepare the separation of Catalonia from the rest of Spain. And you've kept it locked up. That is, on the one hand, they did not want to give us the information – lack of transparency – and, on the other hand, they did not have the courage to come here to the Parliament of Catalonia, where all the citizens of Catalonia are represented, to tell the truth and to let themselves be controlled, especially by the opposition – especially by the opposition. They haven't had the courage to do that. Anyway, another one of the questions I ask you, too, right? A lot of saying 'we'll do it again, but then they come here and they don't give explanations. Are they going to give them now? Will you take responsibility? Will you explain what the separatist offices, the foreign delegations of Catalonia have been doing? Are you going to do it? But it is also, as I said, that foreign delegations have illegal activities, have activities that are not covered by the law and are violating the law in a very serious way. Already, in fact, the lack of information is already a very clear suspicion that you are covering up activities that you know are illegal, and with the Independent Diplomat lobby it is very clear. But there are other activities that show the Court of Auditors : irregularities in the recruitment, irregularities in the activities skipping the law of transparency, skipping the laws of public procurement, skipping not only the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia, but also skipping the law of Spanish foreign action, the law of Catalan foreign action, skipping all – all – the laws. To be able to do external action, it has to meet two requirements – delegations, with their activities, have to meet two requirements – one, they have to develop statutory competences, competences that are in the Statute of autonomy – consumption, youth, culture, etc., education, health – and two, do not harm, do not disturb Spain's foreign policy, do not damage the image of Spain. Do you believe – I ask you, counselor – that when the President of Catalonia says ‘let us go, I have ordered, I have asked the delegations of Catalonia to explain the repression, to explain the authoritarian side of the Government of Spain..., you think that does not harm Spain? Do you think that does not harm Spain's foreign policy? Do you think that does not harm Catalonia? Do you agree with what President Torra says? « Authoritarian drift, repression... Will you continue there? Will you continue to'return to iron and continue to attack Spain's democratic institutions? Because that's illegal. And it's not only illegal, but you're acting against all Catalans. You are acting against Spain, against the State that has to look after us and protect us at the international level. That's illegal. That is, it is no longer the fact that you establish delegations abroad, it is not the fact that you establish delegations in themselves, but all the actions. Some of them we see: disturbing, damaging Spain is illegal and you are doing it; that's what you see. But what you don't see is also illegal. You guys were arguing before the Court of Auditors, weren't you? , in order not to give me the information: "It is that the contracts of this lobby specialized in secession processes had a clause of confidentiality. I ask you, Counselor: are we going to cover up crimes by putting confidentiality clauses? Can you answer this question? Good. I believe that the time has come, Counsellor, for us to ask him to resign, out of opacity, for acting against all Catalans, for illegalities and for not giving explanations in Parliament and telling the truth. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.11.0	To make the answer, the words of the Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr. Alfred Bosch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.12.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman Beltrán, I have six months in charge and you are already requesting my resignation. Man, I've done work with six months! I mean, that's definitely breaking absolute memories. Look, you say we don't give him the information, they don't have access to the information, they even block it. Always – always – any request for information or any question that you have asked, and in so many words – that is what I must say: in so many words – we have always given you an answer. It's more like 95 percent of those things you ask, huh? , above all requests for information, the days they can also consult them on the web, where, with total transparency, the website of the department, therefore, explains what we are doing. We always encourage them to use the new technologies, huh? And to use those resources that we've put at your disposal, precisely because of that, because they can know more and better the task that we do, that it's a transparent, open, and everyone can know. He has also directly accused us of illegal activities abroad with our delegations. You know more than the judges. Because no judge– no judge– has ruled that we are illegal in delegations– no judge. So, you've come forward here, and you've already assumed guilt, when this, for the time being, has never been proven. Look, external action isn't just a department's will that I'm running, it's a need, it's a obligation. We, on the outside, work in all spheres, and from the Department of Foreign Affairs we coordinate all the work of international projection done by the Generality. At the office in Paris, for example, or in Berlin, this one that they want to keep cautiously, there, the delegate coordinates all the work that is done in the cultural, in the commercial, in the sporting, in the economic, in the academic, in the cultural, literary, created, of new technologies, is to say, in all the fields; also the institutional– also the institutional–, because institutionally we have to be and we have to coordinate all this work that is done. The year 2017, the last year of which we have already closed data, was mobilised more than EUR 240_million– more than EUR 240_million–, which were invested for the impulse of seventy-nine different projects. Clearly, these returns mean that it contributed to creating more than three thousand jobs and, for each public euro of the assumption of this government that it was invested in external projection, for each euro that was invested, it was dared, there was a return of 95,3_euros; that is, we multiplied by ninety-five, plus. Clearly, you'll tell me if this is good or bad. I think you're positive. I think the work we do on the outside is positive. The year 2018, promotion of Catalan authors and literature through the Ramon Llull Institute, with eleven international books, 142 universities offering studies of Catalan language and culture to the world; certainly, more than those offering to the Spanish State, outside the realm of Catalan language or culture. Of course... And why do we do that? So why state institutions, which you say should protect and help us, etcetera, don't. And we need it. And it is necessary; it is necessary to promote language, it is necessary to promote culture. What's wrong? Therefore, we must do so, we are obliged to do so. We want to do it. But it's that we need to do it because the cities also have the right to have the most opportunities in the world. And we're in a very competitive world. And we represent, like the government, a society that is open, that is cosmopolitan, a society that internationalizes. Everyone is internationalized: the cities do it; the autonomous communities do it – you also govern – the universities do it; the businesses do it. How come the government doesn't have to do it? It's just that it would be a contradiction. It is that we would not be complete with our obligation, if we did not make the international projection of Catalonia. So, that's what we do, that's what we have to do and that's what we're going to keep doing, because we're bound to do it. And we won't neglect everything we have to do. We have now finished the consolidation phase of delegations, delegations that were closed for the application of 155, which you voted for; therefore, your position is very clear here, we have no doubt. But we also have a very clear position, and as we govern, instead of applying your criteria, you have to understand that the criteria we apply are ours, because we believe in them. And we believe that it is good that Catalonia is present in the world and that the world is interested, that it may interest Catalonia, and that it may also come here, that it may visit us and that it may invest, etc.; we believe that this is positive. You may think that this is denied. So we think it's good that we're part of the global community and that we compete with equal conditions, and that our citizens have the same opportunities that other citizens can have of other rights, or even more, because it's our obligation to promote people's well-being and opportunities. And that's why we're doing what we do. Still, you say we're not doing well. Look, I'll tell you something that says 'you know, you know, who else do it so well, that it's the selection of delegates, those delegates that you say are propagandists, that they're activists, that I don't know what, until they say that they do illegal things, that they don't show up, huh? But they're accusing us now. So listen, these delegates are selected with a public selection process, merit contests; in the past they hadn't been like this, now we're doing this. Say'many countries, say'many international projection agencies do things like that, when, in fact, they could be named directly; they're high-profile, right? So no, we want to select the best, the most prepared, and we do it with total transparency. Despite all this and despite all this work we do and despite the obligation to do it, sometimes, because they don't do what they should do, but also because we need to respond to what the citizens ask us, and the citizens ask us to be present in the world; in contrast to others who say that we have to stay home, that we don't have to go out, that we have to be a closed province. So we don't want to be a closed province. Maybe you want it; we don't, huh? So that's what we do and we do, and, unfortunately, of course, they tell us that we're too big and that we spend too much and that we're doing bad with public funds. Miri, I'll tell you the external assumption of the ministry dedicated to the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs : 790_million euros in Spanish external action– 790_million euros. The equivalent assumption of the Generalitat de Catalunya, enguany, is 6,5_million euros. That's to say, we don't even get to the '1_per_cent of the ministry's expense – nor do we get to the '1_per_cent. You know that the population of Catalonia is around 15_percent of the total state. You know that in the Catalan economy, therefore, GDP is around 20_percent of the total state. And on the other hand, in an external projection, which is necessary, which is our obligation because we have to respond to the needs and to the creation of opportunities for the citizen, we spend a lot on what is our proportional weight and our representativeness. And, despite that, they tell us that we're inflating ourselves, that we're inflating ourselves, that we're inflating ourselves, that we're inflating ourselves, that we're inflating ourselves, that we're inflating ourselves, that we're inflating ourselves, that we're inflating ourselves, and The elephant tells the ant that it's too big. And not just that, but the elephant's trying to slap the ant, he's trying to keep me from talking, he's trying to keep me out, huh? Well, maybe they're moving on. What we do is do the work, although we are small, despite the migration and the modesty of resources. We do that work that we are obliged to do, we cannot neglect what we, therefore, need to do for the citizen. And, on the other hand, the one who tells us we're too big, but that's more than a hundred times bigger than us, says we're wasting money. But what do they spend public money on, in the case of the ministry? They do not dedicate them to resolving the external vote, which is in the least historical, and which is the direct competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – they do not dedicate them to this. Eighty-eight years ago we were at an outside vote of around 40_per_cent; now we are at 4_per_cent – at 4_per_cent. He will tell me whether the person responsible for articulating and organizing the external vote, which is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is doing his job well. Is he doing all right? No, no, Obviously, it's not doing it right. And on the other hand, they dedicate money, yes, and public resources, and the efforts and time of the ambassadors and the people of the embassies to spy on us politically; that is to say, to spy on political rivals to see what they are doing, what ideas they express, at five meetings they go, with five political parties they find... Listen, before giving lessons, look at the comparison– look at the comparison–, and look at how money is spent by the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and look at how we spend it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.13.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.14.0	...and what are we coming back to?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.15.0	Thank you. To make the answer, it is the return, again, of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.16.0	Catalonia is Spain. If you want to reform the requested vote, what you have to do in the Congress of Deputies, which you are represented, is to contribute to that reform of the requested vote; that is, there is no more. With respect to the amparo. Amparo means that you have violated the right of access to information of Members; that is, you have repeatedly denied that information. And those protections... like, for example, the denial of reports from the American Independent Diplomat lobby. They still don't give it to us—they still don't give it to us. That is, all those protections – which is not one, it is twenty, we have counted them; that is, it is practically one per month in this legislature –..., means that you have violated a right that is fundamental to Members, which is the right of access to information; first, to have the right, and then, to be able to control them. That's opacity and that's acting against the laws. Look, you don't always have to go to court, you complain about judicialization. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That is, simply, who has the power to say when you disturb, damage Spain's foreign policy, is the Government of Spain. Why? Why is the Government of Spain? Because it is the holder of external relations, which is an exclusive competence of Spain, as you know very well, and also directs the foreign policy of Spain. And, moreover, the Government of Spain, both the Socialist Government and the Government of the People's Party, unfortunately have not exercised that capacity, that power to direct foreign policy with regard to the separatist activities and the illegal activities that you have done and that you are doing. Why do I tell you that? I mean, why are you guys doing everything you're doing and also allowing yourself the luxury of saying that Espanya is spying on us? But you're confusing repression with law enforcement. You confuse spying on the obligation of the Government of Spain to direct foreign policy and that this foreign policy, in which the autonomous communities intervene, intervenes the municipalities, intervenes the non-governmental organizations and other actors, does not harm, does not harm, does not harm Spain. And he's not. And, besides, what could Spain do? You don't have to go to court. What could the Foreign Ministry be doing? Give guidelines – give guidelines. What guidelines could it give to the foreign delegations of Catalonia? Do not put the fugitives of justice at the front or in front of the delegations of Catalonia abroad, of the delegations of autonomous communities of Spain – do not put the fugitives of justice. It's just that it's very serious! What else? What guidelines can you give more? To publish the agendas of delegates – meetings, contacts, etc.. They are not published, counselor – they are not published. And, on the other hand, that obligation does exist in the United States. Do not attack the Spanish democratic institutions, because that harms Spain. These guidelines can be given by the Government of Spain. Do not use public money to harm Spain. Give guidelines, give those recommendations, those communiqués that Spain gives to its embassies; it can also give them to the external delegations of the Generalitat, explaining, for example, how the European Court of Human Rights endorsed the performance of the Constitutional Court when the plenary was suspended here because they were being damaged, violating the rights of millions of Catalans. The Spanish Government could give these guidelines: explain you, the external delegations of Catalonia, what the rule of law is saying, what the courts are saying; not only the Spanish courts, but also the European Court of Human Rights. And, as you say, in a written reply, it says: "Whoever has the competence to establish guidelines, purposes and objectives of foreign policy and the principle of unity of foreign action in Spain is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Spain. Government of Spain, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, do so. And you resign, because you are acting against all Catalans and you are being opaque and you are denying the possibility of controlling all external action, including that of delegations abroad. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.17.0	For the answer, it's the counselor's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.18.0	MP Beltrán, it seemed to me to feel..., I may have felt it badly, but it seemed to me to feel that it meant that the Spanish government was deciding whether external action was legal or illegal. Is it possible you heard him say that? Because that would be pretty big. And besides, this bold defense of the Spanish government, of its actions, of its espionage actions, as has been proven in the last few hours and days, all that is being done with the foreign service... Man, I didn't know that you were part of the Spanish government. And perhaps here, then, you should reflect on your political location. It also seemed to me that the Spanish Government is the only agent who can exercise foreign policy, and that decides on foreign policy. Well, I think you believe – because, if not, I wouldn't understand anything, already, it would be totally contradictory – that autonomous communities can make foreign policy. In fact, where your government, such as Andalusia, is being promoted abroad. Certainly, a supposition four times higher than that of Catalonia, in the case of Andalusia – four times more –: ours 6_millions_i_mig; Andalusia, 24_millions. Hey, that sounds pretty good to us, but you believe it there, and not here. Why? Not because they think no action should be taken, not because they think no external action should be taken, but because they think no external action should be taken in Catalonia. The problem they have is with Catalonia and its international projection. That's it. Why do they see this as normal in Andalusia, huh? So... You're talking about us damaging the image of Spain. Forgive me, what hurts the image of Spain – what hurts the image of Spain – is the truth and the reality of what is happening. Because when we go outside and they say to us: « – Listen, explain to us the political situation in Catalonia, sure that the Government of Catalonia has a position on what is going on. – Yes, look, I explain it to you, the position of the Government of Catalonia, and I answer the questions that make me the press or any interlocutor. Obviously, I have to. The reality is that people have been in prison for more than a year and a half, accused of calling a vote. And that's true. And they're accused of rape crimes, going through the siege or rebellion, up to twenty-five years he's asking for penises. And that's true, it's happening. It is true that October 1st there were brutal police charges against people who were voting peacefully. That's true. Clearly, you may have a problem with the truth, right? When he says, "Clearly, you do not tell the truth. He accuses us of not telling the truth. But it's because you want to ban it, you don't want us to explain it, you don't want us to talk about it. So... And they share that, yes, with the Spanish government at these times. Miri, who harms the image of Spain is the denial of the truth, it is the fight against reality and the campaigns against the reality of what is going on. Instead of embarking on a dialog that can lead to a democratic solution, which is the only possible way out of this political conflict that we are living, so the Spanish government is hurting itself by denying everything that is going on and denying the evidence, and the evidence of how we can get out of it. In change, what they do – and this greatly harms the external image of Spain – is spying, spying on the Government of Catalonia, the delegates of the Government of Catalonia. But not just that. See, you'll say that this is very normal and that the Spanish government has to do it. But is it true that they find it normal, for example, that they get entangled, persecuted, inquired about the meetings held by the President of the Assembly of Gal·les? Do you think I'm normal? Wales, United Kingdom. Do they find it normal, that he is persecuted and that he inquires about the activities of a German deputy like Andrej Hunko because he wants to present to the Bundestag a motion for human rights? Do you think that's normal? Do they find it normal, that Marie Kapretz is followed, when she is a German citizen, when she does not work in the Government of Catalonia, and that the ambassador of Spain in Berlin informs me about the private activities that this person does? Do you think that's normal? It doesn't seem normal to me. And it seems to me that this greatly harms the image of this nation that you say you feel so much. It seems to me that this is going to hurt. Therefore, we will never normalize what is totally abnormal. We will fight to understand the reality of what is happening. And we won't let them wander any further, and they want to back down in time, and they want to take us to those times of the NO-DO, the white and black, where you can go out to do business, you can go out to play sports, but you can't go out to explain the political reality that surrounds you. We will not allow you to bring us and return to those times that we do not want to return. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about mobility issues]] [[300-00162/12]] The next question is about the problems of mobility; presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose the inquiry, the honourable Member Marina Bravo has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.20.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors, we are in July, and for many people it is already days of traffic jams, of trains filled, of cancellation of flights, of having to pay tolls – also on vacation, in addition to those that already pay on a daily basis –; it is also days of cuts for works on the street; it is also days of cuts for works on the subway, with problems, sometimes, because they are not well managed the alternatives – and, if not, to be told to our comrades in Santa Coloma –; it is days of summer, in short, in which our transport infrastructures, therefore, are put to the limit, and our mobility services are put to the test, and with this they also, on many occasions, put our nerves to the test. So far so normal. Much can be done to improve, and from this will be precisely this motion, but these jams, these delays, these full buses are not exceptional, they are things that happen here and that happen, I would dare say, in any autonomous community. Because so far, as we say, everything is better, but it's normal. And then here we have, besides, what's not normal. It is not normal, I assure you, that the Government of the Generalitat has been saying that Spain steals from us every time someone complains about a toll, even if it is a toll like that of Garraf, which is of the Generalitat itself. It's not normal for them to say that it's all Madrid's fault every time a train is wrecked, because they've owned that service for years, and when a train is wrecked, I assure you it's not infrastructure's fault. It's not normal – and this isn't normal anymore, it's almost not bearable – having to hear that if you manage everything, everything would work much better. The Prat airport, for example. This is a classic from every July. [[the speaker shows a full]] – this is from last July, the 17, this year will not be long; every year they ask it –: to ask again for the management of the airport; that with you there would be no delays, there would be queues and there would be cancellations. But do you think we have no memory? You didn't cancel flights, you canceled flights from an entire company with Spanair, an entire company where we had put a lot of money from all Catalans. Or do you think we don't remember? They have been trying for years, many years, to generate in the citizenry a feeling of aggravation and a feeling of ill-treatment – which is not such, which is not how they paint it – with the fiscal deficit and they also do so with the infrastructure deficit. Reality is far from what you sell. They tell a lot of half-truths, and that at best, because they also lie. They tell a lot of half-truths and try to make people believe things they're not. And I give you an example: "I don't want to pay. In 2012, a gentleman who is now sitting there and who is the president of this government, decided that he had the right not to pay for toll freeways, and a video was recorded adding to a campaign that everyone will remember. Well, it could be because he was against the dealers or it could be because he was against payment for use, even if that's what his government is defending right now. It could be for a lot of reasons. But as we already know in 2012 that Mr Torra was very prolific, he left us written in an article why he was doing it. And the article was titled "The village is already separate from Espanya. And he said, "It pleased me, that the children were in the car, in the toll of Vilassar." From the first moment I understood this action as the logical decision of a society completely exhausted, desolate, girl of the colonial exploitation we suffer. The people have already separated from Spain, and it's a typical population of the colonial exploitation we suffer. And that said jumping if the toll of Vilassar ; the toll of Vilassar, which is a toll ownership of the Generalitat, which is a toll that is extended by the Generalitat. [[Greetings.]] That's a toll that's still there because she wants the Generalitat, and that the Generalitat could take off if the gentleman who skipped it in 2012 wanted it. And, like this example, there are a thousand. We can see more later in the replica, if it gives time. But we keep going. If ordering the airport is a summer classic, of all Julys, what do you think we ask when we open something at FGC? A mechanical ladder? A new station? What do we ask? Well, the railway infrastructure. That's what we always ask, every time something is inaugurated at FGC. Fifteen days ago, President Torra came up and instead of asking for the railway infrastructure, which was the usual thing, because he asked for all the infrastructures, he asked for all the infrastructures in order to be able to apply the same excellent management that exists in Ferrocarrils of the Generalitat of Catalonia; all the infrastructures, the day that opened the platform of Provence – which, by the way, I congratulate them. To see, it seems fabulous that they apply the same management of excellence as in Ferrocarrils of the Generalitat de Catalunya. I'm a fan of Generalitat Railroads. I'm also a fan of rollers, and that might take away points from me, in their eyes, but I'm a fan of Ferrocarrils of the Generalitat de Catalunya, which works very well, and of their team. And I'd love for everything to be applied to your excellent management. We agree on that. My question today, in fact, goes from that, to whether they can apply that same excellent management to some other things that they have in their hands and that certainly don't work so well. Because at FGC they put a lot of interest and a lot of resources. And I doubt more and more of why they do, because they have many other things in their hands that do not apply much less the same management. T-Mobility, for example. It originally entered service in 2015. In 2015 we had to have it, and it would be something innovative. In 2025, when we finish the Holy Family, I don't know if it will be something innovative. A couple of years ago we were told that in 2015 it wasn't, that it would be in 2018 in the area of Barcelona, and in 2019 throughout Catalonia. Have you seen her? Well, I think it'll take us a while to see it. Or line 9 – line 9 –, also an example of excellent management. It had to be done in 2007 – finished; not started, huh? , completed in 2007 – and cost 2,000_million. Do not come with that Spain steals them and does not give them the money to do the, because it cost 2,000_million, and 2,000_million were spent, and 3,000_million, and 4,000_million, and 5,000_million were spent. And they still have half to do. Don't say they lack money, because that wasn't the problem. It has been another very different one, and it is not management excellence, precisely. Or the airport of Lleida-Alguaire, that the truth is that we receive some good news and travelers are growing from 30,000 to 45,000, but it is that the business plan spoke of 395,000 travelers – ten times more. They've had time to manage it and get these travelers. They dedicate to this the efforts they intend to devote to Prat. They dedicate themselves to Alguaire airport and leave them to Prat airport, Adif railway infrastructure or ports of general interest of the State to remain part of a network with which they have great synergies and which makes no sense to divide. It is also read there, so some news that worries us. One, very timely for the question we have today about mobility: « The Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia cautiously suspends the waiting time to hire the VTC. What a surprise. Maybe we didn't tell him enough here when the decree was validated. This is the metropolitan area of Barcelona. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, but it also speaks of the fifteen_minutes of the decree. He says it – he says it – read it to him. In any case, it is the same case and will be suspended. Because, if not, explain to me, can we get a cabify today with the system that's in place now? Can we? Can't we? The laws you make only cause problems to citizens, problems to taxi drivers, problems to VTCs, and solve nothing. We have also read in the news that Barcelona will soon fine 100 euros to the most polluting vehicles that access it without power, under the conditions or at the times when it is prohibited. To do this I think that almost four years ago, 2015..., 2016, three years ago, we did an inquiry saying that we had to prepare ourselves a lot, that we had very clear that we had to reduce the number of polluting vehicles entering this area, but that the Administration had many duties to do. He had to make, for example, dissuasive parking, so that those who live in areas where public transport does not arrive well, so they can move in their cars to outside the protected area and move to public transport. Where are they? Can you tell us, during your intervention, what dissuasive parking has been done in this period of time or what you plan to do? Because they don't hear each other at all. Finally, I leave some other points for my intervention because it no longer gives time to address them, but I would like at least to respond to these first ones that I have commented to you now. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.22.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, MPs and MPs... Mrs. MP, the truth is that your interrogations are always a box of surprises, huh? because the title was "mobility problems and you ended up making, as always, a poti-poti, that while listening to it I tried to find the mental origin of the inquiry. I think I found him. You have discovered a tweet from President Torra, which is his Nèmesi, and from the tweet from President Torra, in which he explains a situation in which he is denounced not only not wanting to pay a concrete toll, but a situation of hardship, yes, from Catalonia with the Spanish State, in fan the big pot. They've discovered this tweet, taught it with its typical poster, and from here, then, there's a movie in which it's all covered indiscriminately. And, in fact, I've been writing down a few things. I had also prepared some response to concrete problems of mobility. I've made a certain point of trouble from line 1, which I'm carrying, huh? And you can talk about it. But as he insists, he has swept away so many things, he will allow me to begin by trying to give answer to his allau, say, of added weights, some very topical and very obvious. And I will answer it, initially, also with a topic and with an obvious, that I am never to do, that it is, effectively, fiscal deficit and infrastructure deficit. And not just fiscal and infrastructure deficiencies, but payment of the third additional provision. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! – fixed there–, it is so hard and so obvious that there was a lack of investment in infrastructure by the State that the autonomy status of the year 2006 incorporated a third additional provision... Did you ever get it, the third additional provision? You're short – you're short, aren't you? – and he says that there will be an economic compensation between Catalonia's GDP and the state's investments in infrastructure in Catalonia. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, So, it's the palm show that there's been a lack of investment in infrastructure. Why are you denying it? Why does he deny me one more time if I've said the state of autonomy? And not just the state of autonomy, which is state law, but also other autonomous communities have adopted the same compensation system. Because, indeed, the State was making a centralist policy. Remember Spain, capital Paris, of wanting to be a Jacobite, centralist state, in which everything is radial? All this was a trend and we opened the door, it was recognized, and other autonomous communities followed it. And it's a liability to pay, and it's only been paid in 2007. And the PP governments didn't pay any more; in fact, they denied even that you existed, huh? , with a metaphysical exercise, therefore, surprising. And with the current government of the PSOE, a door has been opened to go face-to-face and pay-to-face. Let's see where we're going, huh? ; in critical soc, but we'll see where up. But this exists, can't deny it: additional third provision. Do the favor of completing what says a law of the State, which is doing the favor of completing. That's what Mr. Turull says many times, that wearing the constitutionalist dress is a "txello, because it allows the Constitution to fail, allows the basic standards of the State to fail, and the State is one that should be fulfilled. That the third additional provision is paid. And, indeed, in that march there was a campaign of "I do not want to pay, understood as a lack of infrastructure to Catalonia that the Government of the Generality had to face at a certain time with concessions, like that of the tunnels of the Garraf – you make reference to the C-32 – with the empowerment of a whole set of measures so that this is not especially burdened for the user. Remember that we are the ones who have enabled a series of discounts for high-occupancy vehicles or for energy efficient vehicles, or for recurrence, which the State has not done either. Help us claim to the State that I also apply VAO, Eco or by resorting to State concessions while they last. Because I already know that we actually want to go to what you already pointed at, to a payment for you, to the winery. And in this, that we didn't go out with the PP government, we also have a good line, with a working group, of which you are a part, or your parliamentary group in part, and that we hope that you can get there sooner than later. And you're also referring to the train. Yesterday I told Mr Terrades: it is bad luck that we have these questions about mobility or climate emergence on the day that again there are evidences of the lack of state investments in rolling infrastructure: those 4,000_million that should have been completed in 2015, that have not yet been completed, that have a low percentage of execution and that cause, yes, incidences, incidences when not accidents. And we have to regret that some of these accidents, including fatal casualties. But in any case, there must be the investments that are close. How can you claim that the Generalitat did or did not do to Adif and raffles when the 4,000_millions that were promised two years ago were not completed, that only a 14_per_cent was executed? How do you want the generality to complain that you do or quit doing with Renfe when the money that the tariff deficit is called is not passed? that we can't even sign the program contract. I hope to solve this, I hope that we can solve it so that there is a government in the other side of the table; that there is no government now, and that it is also denouncing: months and months since the elections, but here no one is soft. Maybe someone's looking for a repeat election. In any case, it is not the object of this inquiry. But you, on your own, I suppose by, say, professional origin, you've already made a difference that one thing is Adif and one thing is Renfe. He said it subtly, but he said it. Yeah, actually, huh? , ho has said – he has said it. And, therefore, we claim – and this is what we are at its side – that the investments must be made by Adif, despite the fact that people have the perception that Renfe is the one who fails. He talked about Prat airport. Well, Prat airport... we're obviously asking for your management! - Of course! We have a state of mind; don't you understand? If we've said that, it's different and clear many times. We have the size of the country and the state mindset, and we want all the competitions, indeed, and we want the competitions that make reference to the road network, the rail network, the ports and the airports, I would just miss. And we will not fail to claim a management, first, more modern and efficient of the airport of Prat, as it passes to many places of the world, a management that is not centralized, that is more cooperative among all the airport facilities, to the benefit of the economy, of the citizens. We'll never stop complaining about this. But I also have to say with a lot of normality that while, therefore, we are coordinating with who you have with the other gang of the table: AENA, Ministry of Development, Barcelona airport. And I also have to tell you, with a lot of normality, that, for example, before the structural announcement of possible incidences in the air service in view of the summer season, so, two years ago we were preparing for strength well, huh? With the government delegate and the airport management we meet and study how we can minimize these possible impacts. With the advisor of Treball we begin to take the thermometer of possible waves in one or another company to anticipate them. And, look, it's also a coincidence that the vanguard today calls it the Prat airport this summer is going to save some of the waves that I insist on, huh? Sometimes they announce themselves with a certain antagonism and in a very structural way. Well, all this is a job that, on many occasions, is behind the focus and that we are doing, now and now, with a lot of anticipation, with a lot of anticipation and with a lot of coordination, I come back to insist, with the Ministry of Development, with AENA and with the direction of the airport, also with the Delegation of the Government of the State to Catalonia. But that doesn't get much less than we continue to claim competence, said high and clear and normally, would just be missing. That it is not incompatible to be independent with managing people's daily problems; we show it day by day because we are a governing government. And we have the longing and the mindset. This is why you made a strong speech, because you deny the deficit, you deny the investment deficit in infrastructure, you deny that we can have this will to dispose of the best possible country, a country that..., we believe that this best country can only be an independent republic, in that while we are properly managing infrastructure. And, yes, Ferrocarrils, we manage it well, and we're not proud, and we subrate it, and we spend money on it. Do you know why we spend money on it? Because, among other things, we have a program contract; a program contract that determines who we need, and compliance. Because if we don't complete it, badly. Public transport forms an intrinsic part of the social policies to be pursued by all governments. Sometimes it may be thought that social policies are only those of salvation or education, that they are also primarily, or that they are of social welfare, that they are also mainly, but also public transport is part of it. And we're properly managing Railroads. I am pleased that you have succeeded in placing the focus of your attention on a new line that Adif is building between the airport and Sants, a line that runs entirely in Catalan territory and, therefore, that we have already raised the word to say to Adif: listen, this is ours, and this, as service holders, we want to manage railways. And 'nsha recognised– 'nsha recognizable. And so now we're managing that actually we can manage...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.23.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.24.0	...of the Railways. And if you want details of line 1 we can talk about it now, when you make the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.25.0	To make the answer, it's the congresswoman's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.26.0	Well, I'm not the one who's made so much mix, it's you, the one who's mixed it all up. I had asked him, for example, about the dissuasive parking lots and he didn't tell me anything. I had asked you why it happens with the VTCs and the taxis, if I can take a Cabify quietly or I'm committing some illegality. I asked him about some specific things and he didn't tell me anything. What about the tolls? He comes to tell me that I take a video of Mr. Torra and I make a film here. And it's been repeating the same thing I say they do every day and they've been doing it for years. He justified the campaign of « I do not want to pay for an alleged aggravation of the Government of Spain. Can you tell the rest of the deputies and the rest of the citizenry which autonomous community of this State is the one that has built more kilometres of highway without having any need, that they did not have to have done so? Catalonia, which most of all, which has built more kilometers of tolls, which has more kilometers of tolls and which has more years of concession until they are finished. That's not an aggravation of the rest of Spain. [[Greetings.]] On the third additional provision, which says that they have to invest in proportion to GDP. We don't see that clearly; we don't see it clearly here, there, and we don't see it clearly anywhere. You don't see it clearly either, because in Lleida you invest above your GDP percentage, and I don't think anyone here from Lleida is going to complain about it and nobody else is going to protest. I am certainly not going to protest, because you have to invest where you need to. And the third additional provision is not that I read it, it is that I have worked with it every day, making the lists of the works that were in charge of that provision, doing the works that Adif was going to finance, the works that SEITT was going to finance, combining those with the road works. Everything, I read it perfectly. But I recommend one thing: read also the interpretation made by the Constitutional Court of that third additional provision – which did not bring it to print, I had to look for it here quickly. But it puts something like this: « it must therefore be interpreted in the sense that it does not bind the State, in the definition of its investment policy. It does not bind the State. [[Greetings.]] They don't lie – they don't lie. Well, about the investment deficit, which is a great classic, I have a lot of fun with the figures too. That investment deficit you say I don't see anywhere. This 'in Spain' is invested 5,000_million, which I think you said this morning, while nothing was being invested here, I see it nowhere. I had done, well, I had the investment data in miles of rolling stock and they come out very similar. [[The speaker shows a full.]] It has not given me time to make a graph, but it has given me time to make a graph of what the Community of Madrid and the Autonomous Community of Catalonia have invested in those twenty years. It doesn't matter, because then with the 5,000_million_euros of line 9 you would surely win, in kilometers of new metro. And I've included FGC's – look how generous. The kilometers of FGC, because FGC actually, even if they don't want to recognize it, is like a_meter. Look at this blue line, do you know what autonomous community it is? It is the Autonomous Community of Madrid. And this orange line is the autonomous community of Catalonia. These are the kilometers of metro that have been made in Madrid and the kilometers of metro that have been made in Catalonia in the last twenty years. And in stations it comes more or less similar: the oranges, those of Catalonia ; the blues, those of Madrid. That's why we have more mobility problems here and not for the miles of rolling stock, which are very similar in one community and another. Although in Madrid they have twice as many travelers. I wanted to ask you more questions, but... Ah, yes, a: Tarragona tram train – Tarragona tram train. We have the Vandellòs variant that twenty years ago it had to be built and that is a real shame. It's been 20 years. Delay – delay, delay – and they didn't have time to prepare themselves when they were ready. When I was ready they just had to put on the tram train, they had to have it already planned, built and the trams here ready. If you had them here about to put and complain about the delay of the Vandellòs variant I would think a little bit, but you have absolutely nothing – absolutely nothing. They're going to start doing studies and projects now. And the airport line is an infrastructure of Adif that of course can manage the autonomous community. For me, every autonomous community would manage their trains within their community, in which I have no problem. Now yes, I would like you to listen a little bit to the European directives, which they say is that you cannot put there, to the finger, the company you like, that you have to make a public contest and there will arrive the company that makes the best offer [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , which will also be the best for all citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.27.0	Congresswoman, you've got to go through with this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.28.0	I'd be happy to see other trains there that aren't Renfe's. I like trains and the more varied the better. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.29.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.30.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, deputies and deputies. My honourable Member, the truth is I can't believe it. I can't believe I'm saying, therefore, or asserting, with the roundness of what I'm doing, some of the things I'm saying, because, anyway, they're a lack of connection to the brutal – brutal reality, huh? Why, I say it again – I say it again –, we... – does not go the clock, eh? We obviously had to develop a road network at the cost of the same Government of the Generality and sometimes with a precise concession for the fiscal deficit – precisely for the fiscal deficit – precisely for the infrastructure deficit, which was very important in an area that requires living and well-completed mobility. And it's precisely because of this lack of state reversal and also because of the fiscal deficit we had and that we continue to have like the Government of the Generality, that many of the infrastructure that was developed at the time was developed with explicit tolls, and some other tolls in the shade, and some other German payment mechanisms. And many of them were developed by the governments of President Pujol, by the governments of President Mas, but also by the tripartite governments. And I defend it. I always defended him in the morning, didn't I? That is that the line that should never be crossed is that red line that, we say, conditions you forever, that is that this provokes, therefore, a debt that is difficult to absorb. But in any case, I say to myself that the axes of the C-15, the C-16 or the C-17 or the C-25 with different payment mechanisms, like the governments of the tripartite, which is ultimately another type of toll, eh? The defense that in his day is developing infrastructures with explicit toll mechanisms, precisely for the fiscal deficit and for the infrastructure deficit. Precisely because of that and for more than that. And it's palmari and it's demonstrable. And if we take advantage of Catalonia's economic activity and Catalonia's pesso in state GDP, and take over the investments and take over the liquidations, it leads to the solutions that we have been able to achieve and that we want to improve. And that we really want to improve with the winery. I hope that you are on the side of the Government of the General when, not just the government but the whole sector, it puts on the table the need to move forward with mechanisms of management of the railway network, of the road network of high performance with the winery, which is not our invention that it is an invention that goes from Europe. Actually, you were asking me about the regulation of the metropolitan area in this poti-poti that you made of..., what was the title of the inquiry? « Mobility problems, very well, of the VTCs and taxis, regulation of the area, with the poti-poti that has made with the title these problems with the mobility. And he tried to do a dribble with the decree approved by the government and ratified by the Parliament of Catalonia by a very large majority; less his and that of the People's Party, but we agreed together for Catalonia, the Republican Left, the group of the commons..., he pardoned, the Socialist Group, the group of the commons and the Subgroup of the CUP. That it's a solid decree. That it's a law decree that holds that at this point in time the metropolitan area has already made a regulation and a judgment– or a judgment, I don't know– has suspected it cautiously. Anyway, the decree is still in force, it's the law. You can take a Cabify, you would only miss it – you spoke of this trademark – whenever you complete what the decree says, which is pre-contracting with fifteen minutes and, among other things, so you also complete everything that refers to parking, etc. You can take it. Actually, he's operating. Get into the app and the agafa. And the metropolitan area has developed what the law predicted. The decree provided that it was a suitable regulation for managing VTCs and taxis in close proximity to the metropolitan area, with regard to environmental conditions or mobility management conditions. The regulation they have expressed is the result of a lot of dialogue with the rest of the metropolitan area, with the taxi sector, with the VTC sector. Surely there has been – surely there has been –, I do not doubt it, and they have drawn a rule that is taken over in our decree law. Welcome back. Now, if this, then, is suspicious, it's going to have an appeal, determined, I don't know. The area will travel it, the area will re-make it, the area will re-present it and we will continue to observe, first, that it adapts to our law decree – we are not content, to our law decree – and that it has recourse, that it cannot be challenged. Maybe... well, when we approved the decree, I made it a point that Mr. Manuel Valls, when he was minister of France, had collected a very similar law, and at that time you had to shut up, huh? Now that Mr. Manuel Valls is no longer with you, maybe he's already... even rejecting that position, isn't he? In any case, the law continues, you can take – and does not cause any mobility problems – a taxi or a VTC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the situation of unaccompanied minors]] [[300-00163/12]] The 14th item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on the situation of unaccompanied minors; presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party. It has the word, for its exposition, the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.32.0	Thank you, Vice President. Councillors, Members, Members of Parliament will allow us to begin this inquiry expressing, on behalf of the People's Party, the strongest condemnation of recent demonstrations that have occurred before different assembly centres, at the length of the last weeks, at Masnou, Calella, Castelldefels, Canet de Mar, and that have targeted young people and adolescents who are staying there, and also workers of different characteristics of these centres. Then I'll refer back to it, but I wanted to start by making this position clear. [[Some applause.]] The second question is with reference to the name of young people and young people who migrate, because it seems that the use of the acronym MENA seems to be worse. So, listen, the advance that if I use this expression – which I will do – is not with any pejoratiu, nor much less, but simply because it is the acronym of what we are actually talking about, which are minor strangers not accompanied. And as long as this expression has been used for many years, they will allow me to continue to use it. And this issue is a..., that of the gathering of all these young people, of all these young people, without any doubt, is one of the main challenges that the Government of the Generality has today, and, in particular, that the Councillor of Work, Social Affairs and Families has in the face of the table. And the impression that we have – the impression that we have – now at these times is that they are overflowing – are overflowing. The situation is getting a little out of hand. Look, until today we have not put in place, nor is it our intention to put in place any obstacles to facilitate the provision of resources to make integration possible, to make integration possible in the best conditions of all these young people and adolescents, but it will allow us to begin to be critical with some aspects that I will present to the side of the table today, because, certainly, in the later weeks and in the later months, some problems of coexistence have been accentuated. I... would like, counsel, that you also take advantage of this inquiry to make an assessment of the current situation. I will comment on some concrete issues, but I think it is worth the Councillor to give us an appreciation of all the extensive questions he can, in the margin of this inquiry, respect. A first, on the data of the minors who are coming to us during the year 2019, because the council had a projection, the 1st generation of 2019, of the number of minors who could arrive in Catalonia and, therefore, I imagine that the necessary measures had been taken to care for all those minors. And, look, I actually ended up there..., counting on the data of the same council: I had only expected it to arrive until June 1,544, and the reality is that 825 have not come; that is to say, fewer than you had expected. Therefore, if you had practically double and therefore had the service dimensioned to practically double and come in half, we did not just hear why we suffer a situation of overflow, when, in fact, there should be more resources than not lacking. We are concerned about the centres of emergency; they are, of course, and must be, to give timely answers to specific problems, but we are concerned that they are eternal and end up consolidating themselves as defined centres. We would like to know, on behalf of the adviser, how they intend to address this situation. We're worried about concrete cases. That, for example, Calella – certainly the same mayor of the city has told you – is not a certain hotel, but a hotel where these children are staying. We are also concerned that there are concentrations of very large groups in rights where this has an impact on the population's conjunction, which is important; we are concerned that there are these concentrations. Counselor, take advantage to position yourself in relation to the complaints that have been made about a presumed deal of favor to the Mayor of Esquerra Republicana de Canet, to which it has been rented, therefore, a house to rent smaller, or about opacity complaints in relation to the management of precisely the Masnou and Canet centers. To your generation, they approved the Catalan Strategy for the collection and inclusion, and we want to analyze with a little more detail the phenomenon. The question that the council was in charge of, the qualitative and quantitative question that it was in charge of, points out to us some facts that I think it is worth highlighting, and it is that 78_percent of the minors do not come alone, that yes, they come alone, but they come in a consensual way with their families; it is to say, it is not that they wander and leave their families, but they come in a negotiated way with the family – for one thing. And, on the other hand, the 61_per_cent recognize having paid to come, and having paid, therefore, miri, of midjana – data from the council –, a midjana of 1,580_euros, which makes us think that there are máfias that take advantage of this situation to transport minors from their native countries to Spain, and obviously also to Catalonia. You said yesterday in an answer: "There is a vast diversity between these young people – we agree – "we cannot treat these young people as if they were a homogeneous collection – we are also absolutely in agreement. I'll give you two examples of diversity. First of all, there are two types of children we have together – not to distinguish them between two types, but there are two types –: some who have family references – smaller here, major in their countries of origin – and others who do not have family references. And, therefore, we believe that we must concentrate the efforts of the Administration on those children who do not have family references. And the attentions to be paid to each other cannot be much less the same. All the treaties that address the problems of minors coincide that the natural environment of ideal development and desired are precisely the families. And in this sense, counselor, we want to ask him: have some of these minors been returned to their original families? Have they ever planted it? The case of Barcelona. The case of Barcelona is young on the street that we don't know if they're younger or they're older than they are, it seems like there's a little bit of everything. I'm announcing a shock plan. I would appreciate it..., I would appreciate it if you could give us five cents in relation to this shock plan, which we do not criticise, but we appreciate positively that the Government of the Generality, the Councillor, has agreed with the assembly to address a problem that we have and that generates some conflicts. But now you let me also do it, nothing, a brush stroke from which you spent the last week of June. On the 22nd, the mass grave in Calella, originated by the robbers to a minor. On the 27th, in Barcelona, three minors stabbed a security guard to be encamped stealing a tourist. On the 28th, Canet, two minor detainees, accused of sexual assault on a young woman. And on the 29th, in Masnou, a minor arrested for touching and attempting to rape a minor. And that's why we didn't hear about it, counselor. We heard him talk about the demonstrations, but we didn't hear about these cases and these problems, which I don't know if they're timely – now I'm going to give him some figures that I'm sure you already know – but the fact that I don't talk doesn't solve the problem much less; on the contrary, it adds because the problem doesn't come up. Let me be clear: we are not talking about the collection, we are not talking about the whole collection. And you have it perfectly quantified, because the same Mosos tell you: an 18_percent of the children who are not accompanied have committed crime – an 18_per_cent. The good news is there's a 82_per_cent they haven't done, magnificent. But we do have an 18 that they did, and that's a problem and we have to deal with it. Two of these criminals commit serious crimes. And, plus, the 18_per_cent conjunction accumulates a recidivism of 3.9 times per person. Counselor, is it not worth considering to activate all possible mechanisms to seek the return of these minor conflicts to their homelands of origin? Because, in the end, demonstrations [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , which are critical, have an origin. It's certain that there are radical groups...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.33.0	Congressman, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.34.0	... that take advantage of these demonstrations, but in the end it is an image of the impotence on the part of the citizenry before the government's inaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the reply, the word has the advisor Mr. Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.36.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Rodriguez, in the first place, thank you all. You know, and you know personally, I have a lot of respect for you as parliamentarians and as a deputy and thank you all, thank you all for the intervention. I have always said, it is lawful and legitimate any criticism, it would only be lacking, and it is the paper that you must make in Parliament, as legislative power, around the execution of power, but I believe that the tones are pleasing and that is why I want to place it clearly. I will try to respond to the various aspects it has set out. Surely I won't get involved in the first intervention, I'll apologize for the advance; in the second I'll finish it, if I leave anything. And from here we will place the People's Party's condemnation of the attacks;. thank her. I think it's a good thing they say it in public and say it here, and thank them, just like you do, for condemning her to the attacks. He spoke about the acronym MENA, which will use it, but without pejorative will. I'm conscious, huh? And there are different debates. Even so there is an organization that is said Ex-Mena, of the guys and girls who have been protected by the system, who, when you speak to it, say: "No, no, I use this acronym because I feel represented there. Surely we have made a decision, which is not to use it, basically for a matter, and surely it goes for my formal and professional origins. To the social sciences, we're trying to analyze... and even though you're not practicing societal training right now. We're going to try to analyze society, and when you analyze society you're creating, then, like small ponds to be able to analyze it; it has a feeling, but at the end you end up generating categories. That's why I don't use MENA, but I also get nervous about third-generation immigrants or second-generation immigrants. And they're acronyms that are used for the investigation. And Mena's came out for the investigation. That's it. I think it's legitimate and legitimate. It has found that it is one of the main challenges of the Government of the Generality and the department that I am close to coordinating. I agree, it's one of the main reptes; it's one of the main reptes in Europe. I do not know if they know that last week it was public that the French Government would change the law around minor wards, with a strong criticism of Save the Children and many organizations for the rights of childhood. I suppose they know the situation of Reims; I suppose they know the change of policies that has taken place in Sweden around minors..., teens and young children with no family references that arrive in Sweden; I suppose they are aware of the situation in other territories of the Spanish State, even of the situation that happened a week ago in Andalusia, where, unfortunately, even a young person lost his life in a gathering centre. It's a reptile that's everybody's. I think this has to be settled, too. We are not an island, this country is not an island that exists outside its context. It asks for value on the top-up data. Yeah, we made a projection. We made a projection..., I give it concrete data, because it is that we are updating them and I understand that... The first semester did not arrive a thousand and a hundred; that now I can't find..., I don't have the concrete data, but a thousand and a few, 1,129 infants and young people migrated. The raven of the arrivals, because even we had it for months, it was the generation, the fever and the march that we had calculated. From April onwards, there will be less than growth. They didn't get more than last year, I mean, but it was part... it was a study... just like we did a projection. And the situation is this. Yes, it is that we have been planning around this xifra, but that the opening of centres must be done as soon as they arrive. Imagine 1,129 children and young people migrating alone, means, in half a year, so, you..., roughly a couple of days; total, which means managing this and we have to do it. And also to place that one of the very clear decisions that we have about as far as the department is that around eight hundred..., no, around one thousand minors who were in the system who had grown up during 2018, there have been about three hundred and few that, legally and legitimately, because it is a decision of their own, around their personal autonomy, have decided that a copy of them divided years would not have any kind of relationship with the protection system. Of the remaining eight hundred... no, of the remaining seven hundred almost two hundred have done..., they have had the opportunity to either go with extended family and adult referents, or have work, with which they have come out of the system, because they are already in a process of pure and hard emancipation. And about five hundred are still in the system, with various support elements that have the support unit of extute young people. It is a decision that we have very clear, because because of the fact that you have been divided for years, it cannot be that you have come out; I have always explained it and I have explained it as a positive value: Catalonia and Euskadi are the two regions of the State that have policies for extutement and I think it is worth keeping them, dimensioning them in a reasonable way and giving this support, because not the fact that you have been divided for years means that you are already in conditions of emancipating yourself. And that's why I think we're all aware. They're worried about the Emergence Centers. To us too – to us too. I think we have explained this on a few occasions: they must be centers that allow for a first arrival and a first job, but after centers that are not of emergence, or even, that it is the work that we are working most in these last months, which are resources around emancipation floors between seven and twenty-one years give better answer – give better answer. It's our feeling, it's our will. Now, before you get into this piss, you have to do a whole first process that you have to do in the center. And, yes, we have a problem that many times are exceptional resources. Also because we have some difficulties, and they are difficulties that pass us in many areas of policies and in many areas of social policies, that are the lack of housing resources. The past was a time when we called all the entities, companies, etc., that have houses of colonies, so that we could open centers, because there were not many and we didn't have the ability to generate this. From this point of view, there were a lot of people who supported it, but they also had it in the time frame of a while, because they later had signed contracts..., that is, people who are involved with the country, but who have limitations because they have contractual responsibilities. And that's what generates us, so sometimes we have to make moves, and even in some areas do it with some hotel, etc., because the owner or the owner has volunteered and allows us. And that's what we're doing. We're doing a very specific job around the floors because we think it's the best solution. He was in Canet's mayor's office, opacity in managing it. I put it there: we made a call. However, he had cases of colognes available to him, if he had this possibility, and in some cases with time constraints. From here, we fund the entity, which is the management of the collection centre, and the relationships of the entity with the housing remedy are directly related to the entity and the housing remedy. And I can assure him that there is no type of opacity in this management and that there is no type of irregularity. Now, around the relationship of the entity with who is the owner of the colony house, it's a direct relationship between two legal personalities. He's placed the issue of trafficking in people. That's one of the issues we're worried about, because it's embarrassing. There are people who are profiting from the vulnerability of people. And that I think we have to report it all the time, anywhere. There have been some investigations of the Civil Guard because this has a size that is not that of Catalonia, they are borderline, such, and we believe that any investigation that goes against the people who are profiting from vulnerable people is absolutely necessary. And we have to follow him very, very hard. And I've got thirty seconds left, with whom, I'm telling you, because it's a part that I want to set aside for you... sexual assaults, delinquency, etc. Yes, I'll tell you a question in the next few days. You talked about the return of minors. I explain this: the return of minors is forbidden by law – by international law –; it cannot be done – it cannot be done. It's not the generality's competition anymore, it's not that the councilman or the head...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.37.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.38.0	It's forbidden by international law. And I think we need to be curious about these things, because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.39.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.40.0	Because, if not, we generate messages that are not real and not reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, it's the deputy's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.42.0	Thank you, Counselor. There are many things left for the answer, which is why I went back out with the original guide. I, the data I've given him, which I admit may not be everything current... are the data from the consulting web and the paper is still warm from the printer; it's to say, it's recently. Therefore, I already admit that you can have more up-to-date data. The problem of forecasts or not forecasts is not about having open and empty centres waiting for them to arrive; no, it is about keeping forecasts, that when people arrive, so there is the availability of the centres, isn't there? But I insist that... we maintain that there does not seem to be a sufficiently adequate forecast in this sense. I didn't hold back your fight against the mafias either. It is obvious that from here we will hardly be able to do anything at all, it is a much more global and much more complex issue, but I think that it is worth having a look at what is the origin of this situation, and that, therefore, certain messages that cause, obviously, the cry effect. And the cry effect is not a feeling, it's that the same young people who answer the department's question say: "Listen, it's that in our circles it's said that, so, there in Catalonia and they give a lot of help and they see it very well. And that's what they say, isn't it? And so, this, combined with the mafias, I think it's a bad deal for the smaller ones. More things. He did not refer to diversity, which we believe must be a diversity of treatment between minor family references and minor family references. And, if I may, let'mafegir-lo' there: there are also, in Catalonia, minors who need, for the family's breakdown, to go to centers of gathering and re-protecting the DGAIA. Are you aware that there may be minors who can't get the attention for an oversaturation of the hoisting system? I'm asking, huh? Honestly, I'm asking. Some facts tell us that even there are waiting lists. We would like not to believe it – we would like not to believe it – but that's why I don't actually give it to you, and I ask you if you are aware that there can be people who can't be collides due to the saturation of the system. Look, if we, on the subject of the return of minors, we know that you can't take a minor and return him no more. Yes, you can agree with the countries of origin, and you can negotiate with the families the reincorporation of young people into their families of origin, counselor. This is perfectly feasible. Can you do it directly? No, no, Can the government of the generality do so directly? No, no, Do they have to do it through the Government of Spain and the Ministry of the Interior? Yeah. I'm asking you, have they planted it? Why do we also read information that you and the Councillor of Exterior had planned a trip to Morocco at the beginning of this month, and concretely a concrete programme of returns..., how are you doing? Amal's? It can explain to us whether this is true, if it is not true... We are not criticizing it, we are asking for information and we are asking for the subject of returns to the side of the table, as a tool, to send a message, in the sense of saying: "Listen to me, our capacity to gather is limited, and for all those who need to be joined and to be joined, we will do it – we do it and we will do it – but what we can't do in certain conditions...Listen to me, look, let's say it: this 18_because they delinque and have a recidence of 3.9 times per person; so what you say, this generates a major conflict, for them, for all of us, but also for all of us. Therefore, counselor, we ask you to address this issue, to address this problem and to try to solve it without dogmas and without apprehensions. Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. By his turn, it's councilman's time again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.44.0	I was fast, wasn't I? Because if I don't, I won't be able to respond to everything, because I've been on the side of sexual assaults, and I've had various parts left... One, about the dice. Not the correctness, he gave him the latest updates, because as he had it here, yes... the team was updating them to the web, but not to the same rhythm that they came. It was only for maximum transparency. Three or four questions. One element: it has placed me three or four cases. I've had a case of a mass wall, I've been quoted by Mayor Candini, an old company, and I think I can locate a person I'm talking to a lot of, that she herself placed and said publicly that there was no type of camp battle, that there was no mass wall. I mean, let's listen to the mayor in every way. And then there's a question. Mirin, 2019, the first quarter there were more than 3,500 complaints of male violence in this country. And that's the tip of the iceberg – it's the tip of the iceberg. Of these, more than 550 have remained in the realm of the woman's sexual autonomy. Male violence does not originate, has no social class, has no age, has an element always incorporated, which is a bad masculinity. And that's what we have to say. And we came out very, very bluntly, because we, any male assault, you do it, we denounce it and we act with respect. And we got out a lot and a lot of things. Now, let's not forget this: unfortunately, male violence does not originate, has no class, has no age, has a link, which is masculinity. And I think that's what we have to say. In the same way that in the cases of young people who are involved in criminal activities, the Juvenile Prosecutor's Office, the justice of minors, must act – and I understand that it acts – in the same way, whatever its origin is. And we're clear, that's it. But what we can't is, having in the system more than 4,400 girls, it's left that stigma. And it's passing. And that's it. And that must concern us all and everyone – it must concern us all and everyone. Now I would like to devote a small amount of time to the department's willingness, from the two departments, to recover the Catalonia-Morocco program. And yes, we're working there. And yes, he was going down to Morocco, around this element. And I decided to cancel the trip, because the things that happened happened happened, that we thought I was close to being here because of my responsibility. It was after the end of the week of the attacks on Canet and the attempt to attack Masnou, which avoids it are other minor wards. I also explain this, because this has not been explained: who avoids it are other lesser guardians. And I decide, by responsibility, that I will leave it for another moment; there have been technical meetings, etc. And a first element..., and I know hard, because I think that you can criticize many things – many things–, but from rebre to everyone and try to explain to us..., as at least we try. It's not a return program. If I told you they're forbidden, returns. It's not a return program, it's a program that you want to work on, and that we need to focus on, it's prevention work, prevention work in the countries of origin: to have opportunities, to have connections with Catalan companies that have work centers there, that can give opportunities to young people in the country of origin, to be able to do a preventative job with young people who have a road dynamic – Tangier, for example – and that in some cases end up in this country and that, if you do a preventative job, when you arrive you will be able to improve what the road dynamic means. It's this, the will. And, likewise, I also say one thing: we will not make absurd paternalism. We have answered them in parliamentary questions: there are some who have returned with their families. We are also working for this contact with the origin families. And if the kids decide and the families decide... I'd just miss it. And suddenly when he's a paternalist, because this right doesn't talk about him in an Italian or French family, but we talk about him...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.45.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.46.0	...in the family and in a minor Moroccan origin. And that's what we want to do, too, huh? Because, if not, we're dealing with these guys and their families with a parenting that's on me and on me. And you know perfectly well that when I say this I give the example that I don't know dogmatic people around these areas. Many thanks and a pleasure to discuss with you calmly on this very complex issue. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.47.0	The next item on the agenda is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on security forces and bodies, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into security forces and cosmos]] [[302-00121/12]] To expose it, has the word the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.48.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating and voting today on this motion, which should have been substantiated on June 27th, and which we asked to adjourn for this plenary, given that the Councillor of the Interior was directing the fire-extinguishing tasks of the Spanish Tower, which has cremated more than five thousand hectares in the cities of Ribera d'Ebre, Segria and Garrigues. We make the express recognition of the task developed for all those who participated in its extinction and show our solidarity, too, with all those affected. It is a motion with twelve points, which from the perspective of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group are fully absorbed by the rest of the parliamentary groups. The first point of the motion asks to establish for the law the objective conditions that the person must meet with the category of commissioner or major of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra that is designated for the procedure of free designation to be in charge of the prefecture of the cos. In just over a year there were three commissioners in charge. We may have disagreements as to whether or not each of these replenishments is relevant, but I said this when I presented the question: without doubt as to the ability and professionalism of Commissioner Sallent, it seems to me that his appointment as Commissioner-in-Chief, shortly after the completion of the commissioner's course, enters into the category of absolute discretion, a discretion that can frustrate arbitrariness. We can agree that whoever occupies the prefecture must be chosen for the procedure of the free designation – in fact, we agree – but we think that there must be a regulated procedure, some objective steps that leave us with this absolute discretion, that can have a double effect. On the one hand, they may feel discriminated against by the commissaries of the body with more antiquity and experience, and also with an undisputed qualification and skill, but it can also generate doubt about the purpose of these types of designations, which are absolutely discretionary, without any apparent objective criteria. We again demand that the government strive for absolute political neutrality on the part of all officers of the Generality Police in the exercise of their functions, and especially in the whole chain of command of the body. Someone may think that it is not necessary to ask, it is a legal mandate; but there are cases where neutrality is not respected. One example is the apparent inaction of the Internal Affairs Division, which reports to the Director General of the Police, for which he does the impromptu conduct of some agents of the body, which, bearing in mind its condition, serve various social networks beyond the limits of freedom of expression, insults or severely neglects physical persons or groups of persons, and even attempts to provoke situations that should be avoided in the development of their police functions. An inaction that contrasts with the DAI's layout that is patenting agents of the body that are loyal to the current democratic order, or simply stack a stack on Twitter from the head of the opposition. We again ask for changes in the rules and procedures relating to the disciplinary regime of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, which were already approved for this Parliament in plenary session of 14 July 2016, to the eleventh legislature, just three years ago, to form part of Moció 53/XI, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, which counted with the favorable vote of all parliamentary groups, carried from the CUP. This remains a failure of the disciplinary regime of the Cos de Mossos, which needs to be corrected as soon as possible. And he's still hearing a demand from the police unions. We want to close the controversy around the Institutional Security Area. On the part of the Councillor d'Interior it is said nsha follows the model of the security of the Presidency of the Government of Spain. I have to tell you that we see differences between what is the presidency of the Government of Spain and that of the Government of the Generality. Perhaps it is not the case of fixing or capping with marking these differences, but, given that the Government of the Generality tells us that they want to follow the model of the Government of Spain, we ask, at a specific point, the point 6 of the motion, which is followed by thread in turn to this model. In any case, we want to ensure that the ASI is not a pretorian guard working outside the law. We insist on the legitimate link of the Police of the Generality with the democratic mark and with loyalty to the assembly of the citizens and with all the institutions of the State. Finally, I would like to refer to points 11 and 12 of the motion, which were already part of motion 22/XI, on security policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, and which was approved in a very majority in the plenary on 21 April 2016. Some proposals that were supported by the groups that donated and supported the Government and that did not implement in accordance with the parliamentary mandate, and continue to be a union demand that affects essential issues related to the continued training of staff of the Squadron Cosos de Mossos. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend now the papers presented, it is the return, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, of the MP Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.50.0	Well, thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillor... well, we this motion, almost most of us, will support it. And the reality is that in recent months there have been a lot of scandals about how the different appointments have been managed within the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. The reality is that a few years ago we warned that the excessive politicization that the separatist government was carrying out with regard to the bodies and security forces of the Mossos d'Esquadra, because they would, first of all, result in a lack of legitimacy of the body, in a destabilization, in a sense of citizen insecurity of those citizens who do not coincide with the independence project can even understand, or even have a totally legitimate, and sometimes very understandable, feeling that it is a police force at the service of one government and not at the service of security and respect for order, the legality and the legality of the whole society. And we are faced, a few years later, with a situation where, first of all, appointments of chief commissioners are made, continuously – the proposal for this motion has already mentioned, the successive changes that have occurred – which seems to have little to do with the technical conditions of the appointees, and which has to do also, sometimes, for, let's say, due diligence with regard to the ideology of the government and the councillor in charge, and also a series of scandals, such as that you have made available to Mr Puigdemont, the fugitive Puigdemont, a special escort from Mossos d'Esquadra. Having said that, we tabled a number of amendments, because we considered that although the original text was good, it was necessary to improve it; amendments, some, which have been accepted, for which we therefore give our full thanks, and others which are not. And it's not like we're going here to deny that he didn't surprise us. Because he surprised us. You say, Mr. Alonso, that you see differences between what is the head of a state government, and the head or president of the Generalitat, but that, in the end, you give reason to the government in charge, that is, to the government of Mr. Torra, and you say, "Well, look, you know what? , that even if it is different we will accept that you have a specific and separate security corps from the rest of Mossos d'Esquadra, which is the recently created ASI, of just three months ago, so that at least you have effective control, as if it were the escort or security of the president of the Government of Spain. Hey, you just granted them a wish. We had tabled an amendment to him at this very point to say to them: "Listen, no, we have to repeal this ASI. And we must repeal this ASI because so far it had worked very well with a specific corps of escorts who were in charge of the security of all public offices, including the presidency, and because, listen, you have just given a gift to Mr. Torra, and it is that you have given effect to the republic of the eight seconds of the last legislature. You've turned him into a head of state, with a separate security corps, which is the ASI. And, therefore, those two amendments that we have tabled to you, the truth is that I am saddened that you do not accept them. They are, I believe, still in time to reflect on this, because I believe that granting Mr Tora the wish to be the president of a non-existent republic and with specific security is a mistake. So far, the control that had been made of that escort service had been effective, it had been done from the General Operating Resources Commission, it was efficient, it had democratic control, and that is what corresponds to the situation in which we are in. I therefore reiterate this reflection, this invitation to reflection. We had also tabled an amendment to an issue that I believe is important, right? And it's that when agents are punished with suspension of wages and salaries, let's also know, through that report... you're asking for a report to be made, right? We also want to know what happens to those who stop receiving the sanctioned agents, who will actually make the transfer and who do not know the destination. It doesn't matter that there are many or few. The reality is that there are public resources that are earmarked for wages, that are not finally allocated to them, and we want to know exactly what they are allocated for. Does this mean that we have great suspicions of detours? No, no, What this means is that the salary, the public money has to have traceability, and also when it's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.51.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.52.0	... as an effect of a disciplinary sanction.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.53.0	Thank you. Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Mr Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.54.0	Good morning, everybody. In general, we are very much in agreement, or quite in agreement, with some of the things that you're a fan of. There's a few questions in the Internal Affairs Division, there's a lot of questions in the ISA, and there's a series of questions that we think need to be clarified and put on. But I'll start with the... let's just say, with what we don't agree with. We don't agree with point 1, because we don't see that you're bringing anything new. We agree with the analysis they are doing, not that they are making so many changes and so quickly, but we do not believe that the proposal that you are making solutions or providing anything else. As for point 8, we don't agree with that either. We consider it to be part of their deed to do... as they did yesterday, with a view to selling independence. We are not independent, but we believe that your attitude can only increase the conflict. And that's the case that we believe in point 8, which you say you do an instruction when it refers to police legitimacy. It's not that we disagree, but we're going to do instructions now on which words can or can't say to the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad They don't think there's much to feel. And point 10, which we'll simply abstain from... is not that we disagree, but we don't think we have to stay on the issues that are more early in collective bargaining. We do not believe that the Parliament should be making quadrants. As much as it is true that we agree that this is the case, we believe that we need to leave some room for this collective bargaining, and that from Parliament we need to promote this collective bargaining. As for what we agree, to age for absolute political neutrality, clearly it's an absolutely basic question in a police body like the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. We appreciate the acceptance of the puzzle at point 3. We believe that when an agent of Mossos d'Esquadra actually acts, even acting in a personal way, in any network, therefore, insults hard people or exceeds their freedom of expression, in general, or provokes acts that then, for their uniform, must avoid clearly; we are absolutely in agreement with this approach. Very, very important point 4. We want to see the consignors that have taken place in the last few years; without a name, without a single seeing, but we have serious and serious doubts about the performance of the DAI in many of its consignors. And it's true that sometimes... we don't have a conscience, but it may seem that they act differently, depending on who they're dealing with, or what they're dealing with. We can't allow that. As for point 5, I also agree very much with the lawyer, as the lawyer; also, I think that it is necessary to put on and give more guarantees and more rights when disciplinary expeditions are made to between the Squad's Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. In a very clear way, we must, let us say, incorporate this series of guarantees and rights. It would not be understood – I would not understand, at least, as a lawyer – that no one voted against this point. We are talking about incorporating into the sanctioning consignment all the actions due to the end in the reserved period of information, that is, the secret information that is incorporated into the consignment, in order to be able to defend the person to whom he is working; we are talking about that all communication..., be aware of who the author is – absolutely basic – ; we are talking about that there is a presence of the illiterate, that this should already be, too..., should be recognized; that if there are anonymous complaints against who makes the..., it is a search that makes the complaint anonymous, and, naturally, that there is a copy of each of the statements before the instructor. It is very basic questions, and I think it is very good that Parliament speaks to them. Point six, we agree, no previous use, with the PP's company. Consider..., we vote in favour, huh? But we think it could have been taken advantage of to make it depend on the Interior, the Interior Department. It could have gone a little further up the ASI point, but it's very necessary, too, to put it on. I, then, the staff breakdown. We want to know what criteria are used and how this target distribution is done for all of Catalonia. And as for points 11 and 12, so, well, the one we've always said, right? , it is very little reassuring that we must continually repeat votes that have been taken in Parliament, and questions that have already been approved in Parliament, that we must constantly remember them because they are not a fan, right? And the feeling, in the end, is an absolute impotence. We do the work, we get things right, and it seems that the things that get done are useless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mr Marc Parés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.56.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Well, you're presenting us with a young man, a little more, who sweeps up a series of proposals that we believe can improve the functioning of the safety nets, with some other proposals that you want to see with a series of permanent obsessions that you have and that you've introduced into all spheres. Look, what does it look like to us a better operative and democratic version of the motion that you are presenting? Well, it seems to us a better, in democratic terms, that the Department of the Interior informs Parliament of the way in which decisions are taken, of the criteria used, and above all of their actions, because we understand that it is a question of transparency and accountability, which for us is essential for a democratic police. Therefore, it seems to us well and necessary that the Department of Interior issue a report on the disciplinary expedients, a report on the human and material effects of the Institutional Security Area. And it also seems to us that I have issued a report on the territorial distribution of the new effects of the Squadron Mosses. We also appreciate the acceptance of the message that we raised at point 4, because it is important for us to have information about the past two years and not the past five years, as proposed in the initial text, because if we already know that you are very concerned about the police's work in the process, we are concerned about the intervention of the Catalan police in social mobilizations, especially in the area of complaints against retailing; we are concerned about the intervention of the Catalan police in Catalonia against the movement of the 15-M; we are concerned about the action of the Catalan police in the multi-referendum; we are also concerned about the action of the Catalan police in the thousands of denials that have taken place in this. We already understand that there will be no disciplinary dispatches, lost these cases or lost these questions, but in any case, if we have the information, as we can at least corroborate. And we already know that it is not the object of this young man, but in this line of transparency we also believe that the citizenry should be able to know the standards of the use of police weapons such as Tasers or foams; some standards that should be public and that they are not yet. And that's not just what we say, that's what Amnesty International says or that's what the Greuges Synod says. What more does a better woman look like to us than her young lady? So it also seems to us to be the establishment of a system of turns, or the proposals they make about the Department of Internal Affairs, which we believe can help the proper functioning of investigations, even though we are in favour of an independent investigation mechanism. Look, you know that our group has called for different investigations into cases of what appears to us to be an abuse and anti-regulation of force. To put the most recent cases, we could refer to the intervention against an animal group in Riudellots de la Selva, last April, or the intervention in the Gayarre de Sants block, last May. We have also asked to investigate the collaboration between the Mossos and the company Desokupa, as in the case of concrete cases where this collaboration was evident, such as the case of the same block of Sants or the intervention that there was in a block of the Poble-sec last month of generation. In all these cases there is someone who says that we want to discredit or damage the image of the Mossos. And look, that's not it. We want to democratize our police and put an end to irregular and anti-democratic practices. And that's why we understand that these must be able to be investigated objectively, independently and with guarantees. And what doesn't sound good to us or doesn't look like a better woman than her, and so we'll vote against it? So look, all the points in what you do to what you usually tend to do, that you are a partisan of any subject, in this case the policy of interior, to stir up the conflict in Catalonia. And we will not only vote against it because we sincerely believe that this strategy hurts Catalan society and we are not frankly tired and tired, but above all we will do so because this strategy often leads you to clearly anti-democratic positions or, as you know, to the precedents of which our parliamentary group understands for a democratic model of quality. And that is why we will vote against points 1, 3, 6 and 8 of your motion. And lastly, we will abstain from point 11 and 12 of the motion, because the focus that is being used with Proderae generates a lot of doubts, and because we have seen and have witnessed concrete cases of stigma and xenophobia in the formations taught. And, therefore, we cannot share that it is continuing to impart training with these parameters. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Congresswoman Montserrat Fornells.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.58.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, very good morning to everyone. First of all, I would like to thank the pocket of all the professionals who worked in the extinction of the fire of the Ribera d'Ebre, the Garrigues and the Segria. And all the support, from our group, to all the veins and veins of the affected municipalities. This is a new motion from the Ciutadans Group on security forces and bodies and, naturally, focusing on the Squadron Seams, on all its effects, making statements that are certainly not and discrediting the work and professionalism of the seams. Because saying that the police are politicized or do not guarantee political neutrality... only harm the image of the same thing and the work they do to ensure the safety of all Catalans and Catalans. Because you know that's not true, but you have an interest in discrediting them, and that's completely unacceptable. Since we are talking about political neutrality of police bodies, we have had an absolute silence on the part of your group, Ciutadans, last September 2017 when the Civil Guard came out of the different barracks under the criteria of « to get them! Let's go get 'em! When they're heading to Catalonia to suppress the voters of October 1st. Where were they, then, criticizing political neutrality? They weren't even expecting it. Because according to what attitudes, according to what comments, according to what facts due to the term of the police, for you do not have any criticism. Therefore, we do not come here to give lessons on political neutrality to the police. For what he does to the young lady in question, say that most points will not be supported. We shall vote in favour of three of the twelve points of this motion. First of all, thank you for having accepted the message we presented at point 9, to extend the deadline to nine days to present a detailed report on the distribution of the effects of Squadron Mosss, as you want to wait for the new members to be in the new destination as of September. We will also vote in favour of point 12, including local police officers and city guards in the format programs of prevention and detection of radicalism in order to improve the skills and knowledge of these police. And we will also vote in favour of point 2, because this is an issue that is already being done and the current rules are already in place. All the team moves develop their task with political neutrality, and put it in doubt, as I said before, it is only in the interest of politicizing the body and discrediting its professionalism. We will not vote in favour of the rest of the points. Not enough time to go deeper to get the motivators. I'll highlight some of them. For example, point 1, of establishing a law decree with the conditions to be met by the members of the Squadron Mosses Cos to be major or commissari. The current promotion procedure already includes the evaluation mechanisms relevant for such an objective evaluation of the designations. Another point that we will not vote in favour is the 3, as they correspond to the Director General of Police the exclusive competence and expel for the initiation of any information reserved relating to the body. Moreover, article 27.1 of Decree 183/95 of the Rules of Disciplinary Regime of the Cos de Mossos already specifies, says: "The disciplinary procedure always starts from offices by agreement of the Director General of Ciutadana Security, either on his own initiative or as a result of superior order, reasoned motion of the subordinates or complaint. Nor will we give support to point 4 that it would be necessary to have a specific regulation that obliges you and there must be a duty to inform about the disciplinary expedients of any public and not just of the Mossos, because this would create a burden compared to the rest of you. Nor will we give support to points 6 and 7 on the Institutional Security Area. Decree 20/2019 already specifies the creation of this area, specifies the functions to the additional provision seven and says that they fall under the Directorate General of Police. This security model is not new; this model already exists, for example, in countries such as the United Kingdom, Italy or Moncloa itself, and the Government will inform about public resources assigned to this unit in detail, as provided for in Law 19/2014. Finally, as I have done on various occasions in her Parliament, I would like to congratulate all the Members so that we can work together to improve the situation of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, to improve its shortcomings, its needs, but to leave it to all of us that the Mossos d'Esquadra work and do the job of ensuring the safety of all Catalans and Catalans in the country and that we do not politicize the cos more. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.59.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Deputy Jordi Munell. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.60.0	Thank you, President. Honourable councillor, deputies, deputies, good morning. Well, we'll find each other again... first interrogations, then motions, which we go back and forth over and over again. We're in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. In fact, since October 2017, it's in the eye, in the eye of the forces that I am unionists, constitutionalists, but it's also in the eye of what the State is, or even justice, which is a state apparatus, isn't it? In fact, we have all the police dome of 2017 charged; there is a court announced for the generation. And, therefore, it is going to be more than that, explaining that it is a political police, that are politicized, criticizing this new Institutional Security Area, criticizing that there is no inversion in Catalonia. We go back on the same subject, but we don't talk, in case we talk about these 800_millions that the State, the Ministry of the Interior neglects us despite the fiscal deficit of Catalonia with the State, or it doesn't talk, for example, for how many months the reversal has been blocked, for example, of weapons for the Police of the Mossos d'Esquadra, on alert 4 terrorists, eh? Or, for example, the blockage of the call for more moves, which until this year has not come out a new call and, therefore, we do not arrive at the objective split_thousand agents. So, we talk to talk, why is there anything left, huh? Something will remain of what Parliament has been told that the police do not work, that they are ineffective, that they are politicized, that the agents serve or do the service of the color of the government and not the service of the country. Something certain that's left and, therefore, we're going to give turns in the same. It's hard for us to know – it's hard for us to know, once again; I told the previous question – that a professional thing is being used, some magnificient professionals who, despite these shortcomings, despite these blockades, despite this situation that our country is experiencing with economic hardship, but also lacks the ability to exercise, therefore, with full freedom and right all the skills of their own – we are always understated to what the State says –..., and therefore these professionals, despite this blockade, are doing a job I would say that exceptional, eh? Therefore, from here on, from our group we also join the Republic Group to express the good work and congratulations to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra of our country. For what he does to the young lady, as we said – and also following what Fornells said – we will only vote three points in favour, which are pointed out, in fact, in what they are reiterating what is already being done: obviously, therefore, that the Mossos is not a political thing and, therefore, that they do not do politics, as they do not have to do, nor do they discriminate against the citizens they respect and, therefore... that, in fact, it is already laid down in the rules, this..., the Mossos d'Esquadra, when they accept the car, so they must accept and promise. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of this. We will also vote in favour of giving account in your parliamentary office – not in thirty days, but in the next few days, as we have been accepted – therefore, of this new incorporation of effect, to which they will go. Therefore, we ask for a little more time so that they can join, make their regular incorporation period and tests to go to their definite destination. And we will also vote in favour of the point at which we are talking about formation, because we also agree that... formation, on the one hand, we agree that many times it is already decentralized if it can be, but more so, the formation many times specialized also has to be shared with the rest of the security forces: local police, port police. And, therefore, at this point we will vote yes. In the rest of the points we would vote that not for different reasons; it is very long to explain, because in most cases everything is already going through a regulation or regulation that already explains how the issue of internal affairs works, or how the creation, for example, of this protection body of the president and expressants, as they do in other countries of Europe, works. And, therefore, everything is regulated, and in this case, therefore, Ciutadans' proposal, as we say, is more than a better regulation, which I think is an excuse, once more, to put on the table and on the Parliament these continuing criticisms to our police, to these great professionals who are the Mossos d'Esquadra. Thank you for the good day. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the return now, to fix its position, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP. Tell him before, Mrs. Sirvent, that I was wrong about the return of Congresswoman Esperança García, who was close to him for two minutes and a half and he's done five minutes. Apologize. In any case, in order not to generate a weight, you will also have five minutes on this turn of intervention. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.62.0	Well, good morning. We simply want to say that this House, practically its totality, will stand in favour of Point 2, which says that it is the absolute political neutrality on the part of all police officers. The police aren't neutral. How does the police have to be neutral? It's not when he's taking part in a court-martial to execute a denunciation. Nor is it when, with its passivity, it allows members of extreme right-wing groups to enter a center of smaller without adult referents. Nor is it when it charges against an environmentalist group that is defending the territory and is fighting against the C-32. And neither is it on many other occasions, as it wasn't when he acted in Gayarre or when he acted in the Poble-sec. Why? So because the police are defending the established order, and the established order is not neutral. And, at present, this order establishes what it does to promote inequalities, to encourage that there is an absolutely unfair society in which a few accumulate all the wealth, while the rest, the popular and working majority, assumes the consequences of this absolutely unequal redistribution of the wealth. And, therefore, we cannot vote in favour of it; neither from this point, nor from point 3 nor from many other points that they claim is that the Squadre Mosso Coso is neutral, because it is not, it acts on the side and it acts ensuring a system that is absolutely unjust and that condemns us to a life of misery for the majority. For another band, and respect the motion concretely, we will position ourselves in favour of point 5, except the point d, because..., I don't know if before the company, the one carrying the Socialist Party resolution proposal, said that no lawyer could pose against these points. I think point d, yeah. More than a king, because who will decide who is being criminally persecuted or not will be criminal justice and, therefore, according to Article 456 of the Criminal Code, which is what would condemn these anonymous complaints. That's right, we ask you when we demand that there be a human rights body that can ensure that these human rights are fulfilled at the time of the actions of the Squadre Mosos, so that you are also in favour and that you also remain transparent and also demand the assurance of the compliment of these rights in this police action. When we find ourselves in front of these situations of fascism, anti-feixism, of the faces or veins of the territory or those that are speculating with the territory, we would like you to have a police task that is in favour of civil rights, social rights, political rights and not the other way around. We want a thing that you defend right to exercise right to protest, right to protest, right to freedom of expression and not coercion. And, therefore, for us, this motion for a resolution is based on different assumptions that are certainly not. With respect to the ISA. So look, transparency, everything they want. The other day, in the Committee on the Interior, we were in favour of the Councillor's appearance, the Director General's appearance and the appropriate explanations being given. But to start the conflict and try to do politics again in relation to the conflict between banners, we can't work together or we can't agree. Regarding the last two points, the points related to the formation. Look, we've seen this program, the Proderai, and we've been able to analyze it and it has a great stigmatizing and xenophobic character. We, of course, want training, we want training for the whole Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Why? So precisely why does it continue to help secure this established order that we don't like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.63.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word of new deputy Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.64.0	Yes, thank you, President. I will limit myself to commenting on the reviews. Summaries have been submitted – the quotation by order of presentation – by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Communal May and by the parliamentary groups supporting the Government, the Junts Groups for Catalonia and the Republic. Of the six papers submitted by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party, we accepted the first one and we negotiated the fourth one, and we did not reject the rest, although in some of them we may be very own. Neither do we share with the Government the vision of this new area of institutional security; what happens, we have to recognise that there is a certain discretion of self-organization and it is a little complicated, since the opposition, in a parliamentary session, with a young man, therefore, to change the whole system. Anyway, it's not our model, it's clear. Socialists and Forward Units have submitted two papers. We accepted the first one and traded the second one, which affects the point 4 of the motion and, in this case, with the issue number 1 of Catalonia in Comú Pode. For what it does to the two papers presented for Catalonia in Comú Podemos, we have traded the first with the second of the Socialist Group – I have said this – and we have rejected the second, which asks to delete the reference to the Director General of the Police in point 6 of the motion, after explaining, therefore, that the Director General of the Police to which we refer is the Director General of the Police of the Generality, not that of the Ministry of the Interior. Finally, we have accepted the message presented, it has also been said, for the parliamentary groups Republic and Juntes for Catalonia, that it extends from sixty days to ninety days the deadline to present in their parliament the detailed report on the distribution of the effects of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and, specifically, of the effects that are due in point 9 of the motion. I insist, I think the motion is perfectly consumable and, really, well, there are points that have been approved in previous sessions and that, in this case, some groups will change the sign of their vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.66.0	President, for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.67.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.68.0	1 and 8 for one gang, and 10 for the other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.69.0	1 and 8 I understand that together, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.70.0	Yes, President, for a separate vote on '1, 3, 6, 8, for one band, and '11 and 12, for another.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.71.0	Eleven and 12, did you say, Mrs. Segovia? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, they have asked for a separate vote from points 1 and 8 together, point 10; of what Mrs Segovia was commenting now they are on 3 and 6, and 11 and 12 apart, say so, huh? [[Several Members are asking to speak.]] Yeah. Mr. Sole, Mrs. Sirvent and, later, Mrs. García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.72.0	Vote separate from points 2, 9 and 12.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.73.0	Together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.74.0	They can vote together, for our part.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.75.0	Lady Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.76.0	Yeah. To ask... I think we should vote all points separately, huh? But... To ask for separate vote from point 4, point 5. Also, in point 5, we want to vote separately on the 5th...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.77.0	Mrs. Servent, Mrs. Servent, we'll all vote for them separately because it doesn't fit with the... Therefore, we will vote each of the points separately from this motion. I understand, Mrs Garcia, that it was also a separate vote, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. So we start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 39 votes in favour, 89 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 123 votes to 5, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 56 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. And now we're going to vote number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 64 votes to 60, with 4 abstentions. Let's go now and vote point five. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Oh, sub-points too? [[Pause.]] All right, then. Okay. We vote, therefore, also the subpoints. Huh? Mrs. Sirvent, on demand? [[Pause.]] All right. So, we vote on point 5a–5a. The vote begins. Point 5.a_has been approved by 68 votes to 60, with no abstentions. And we're voting now on point 5.b. The vote begins. The 5.b_point was approved by 68 votes to 60, with no abstentions. And now we vote on point 5.c. The vote begins. Point 5.c was approved by 68 votes to 60, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 5.d. The vote begins. In point 5.d there was a tie: 64 votes in favour, 64 against and no abstentions. So, we'll go back to voting point 5.d. The vote begins. There was a tie again: 64 votes in favour, 64 against and no abstentions. Therefore, we will have to vote a third time. We vote point 5.d, third time. The vote begins. Once again there was a 64-vote tie in favour, 64 against and no abstention, this point fell. Keep going. We vote for point 5.e– 5.e. The vote begins. Point 5.e was approved by 68 votes to 60, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 6. The vote begins. The sixth point was rejected by 60 votes in favour, 68 against and no abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the seven-point. The vote begins. The seven-point was rejected by 59 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. And we're voting now on the 8th. The vote begins. The eighth point was rejected by 39 votes to 73, with 16 abstentions. And we're voting on the new one now. The vote begins. The new point has been approved by 126 votes in favour, 2 against and no abstentions. And we're voting now for the point you want. The vote begins. The vote was rejected by 47 votes to 60, with 21 abstentions. And we're voting now on the one-off. The vote begins. The vote was rejected by 56 votes to 64, with 8 abstentions. And finally, we vote for the dot. The vote begins. The dowry and later point of this motion was approved by 116 votes to 4, with 8 abstentions. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Say, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.78.0	To explain a feeling of the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We were wrong in voting point 6; it was a mistake of mine to indicate the sentiment of the vote. Our intention to vote was to vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.79.0	All right. It's clear. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into housing policies]] [[302-00123/12]] Keep going. The next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on housing policies, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar..., presents the motion the deputy Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.80.0	Vice-President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.81.0	Yes, thank you, Congresswoman; forgive me. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.82.0	Thank you. Well, in the question that preceded this motion, we explained the need to address one of the country's main issues: housing. At that time, we said that the housing crisis persisted, after many years, as a consequence of the over-indebtedness of the families in order to be able to access the housing, as a consequence of the escalate of the real estate cylinder, as a consequence of the existence of another cylinder, that of the price of the logger. The insufficiency of the lloger housing park, already in the free market, but still more, of the public housing, is obvious. We all know that our public park is small. Not up to 2_per_cent, while the European average is 15_per_cent of the total housing park. There is not enough housing in the area, neither public nor private, and this increases prices, especially in those areas such as Barcelona and its metropolitan area. We said that it had increased in the last five years, a 29_per_cent – in general, to all of Catalonia –, the price of the logger, and a 38_per_cent in Barcelona and its metropolitan area. Lack of habitat, unorbited prices, economic crisis, difficulty of many families to obtain a habitat worthy of living, but also difficulty of young people to be emancipated, or the need to adapt demographic changes, is to say, the aging of the population, the lllars. All folded, get us to look for tools to reverse this situation. We asked them and asked them, in this case, that the government is equipped with the necessary means to deal with the most urgent challenges in housing: the housing crisis, but also the need for medium- and long-term planning. And we asked them and asked them to do so with the consent of the different administrations that have jurisdiction in housing, but also with the different collections, social, political and economic. Only from the consensus can we weave solid strategies, which allow us to move forward. We asked them to leave behind the path they had followed, approving two decrees of law that have ended, one, are withdrawn, and the other, say by lack of validation. For us, this consensus passes through the re-editing of the National Habitation Pact as a permanent dialing mark, but it also passes through the approval of a new habitation law. A law, not to say, that you have to work with the will of dialog and concentrating as many agreements as possible, but also save more resources, more resources than all administrations. We already said, from the state, too, with state housing plans, but from the generality, too. Their responsibility cannot be spared in this matter. It cannot – let us say then – make a competitive escape. It must provide the necessary resources in an environment that is basic. And it must be done decisively if we really believe in the need for housing. We can be imaginative, we can look for formulas to get more habitat in the market than is more possible in loguer, at low prices, but only decisively reverse the situation, if from the government they have the resources necessary to get it. And when we're talking about looking for formulas to put more housing in logger, we're also thinking about the little owners, little owners who have to have an incentive to put their habitat in logger, through putting them in this logger under a reference index. I, of course, resolutely fighting against empty habitation, especially of the great tenors. We need to be strong about the pressure measures on these big tenors, this strip of the market. We must review the Bill of Taxes on empty floors; it must be especially useful. There must be a transversal action of the Government, to also stand at the side of the gatherings to fight on a theme as difficult as the empty habitation, and also the occupations. Our group has already called for a transversal action plan in the field of occupation, of which, at this time, we have no news. And, therefore, we reiterate, in this motion, the need we saw at that time: we must fight, therefore, against empty habitats; we must work together with the assemblies, we must provide the necessary resources, and we must increase the economic resources to increase the public park, because it is obvious that, without resources, without a clear bet on public housing policies, we will not be able to reverse the difficult situation we have in this country in housing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.83.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now has the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.84.0	Well, thank you very much. They'll forgive me for your loss. This is the reason why the Socialist Party of Catalonia presents us, I think we can describe it both for what you say and for what you stop saying. What is it you say? Measures. Yes, measures, minimums, pieces, not structural, interesting and necessary, yes, but insufficient. Clearly, we need to reactivate the National Habitating Pact. It was said a year ago, and we follow exactly the same, proof of the lack of capacity of this government, of generating consensus, of working together, with all social, political and institutional actors, at the time of seeking solutions, of thinking and planning policies and of making a real change in the housing model that Catalonia needs. And, the proof, we have it with the two failed decrees of this legislature. It is obvious that we need a new standard_mark, which adapts to this model change. We think of the model, we look for consensus, and then we do the law. Not the other way around. Of course, only to complicate what we already have in the regulations in force, such as the Law on the Right to Housing, on 24/2015, we would also be much better than we are. The motion also speaks of an increase in resources. And it is, of course, necessary and priority, above all, because of the lack of investment in social housing that the Government of Catalonia has characterized for the past eight years. We're going late, we're going badly. It is important to speed up, but we also hope that the same increase in resources that the PSC asks here will be maintained when it comes to making assumptions to the Government of the Spanish State; that it will keep, as at least, what it agreed with Podemos and In Comú We can by the assumptions of 2019; that it will keep the agreements, because, what we see is that, by keeping the agreements, it will not happen, because there are things that first say yes, and then say no, as the limitation of the pressure of logging, that it was agreed that yes, that the current proposal of assuming agreement that the PSOE presents disappears from the map, this possibility, but that, in turn, in the agreement that the PSC signs with Barcelona in Comú, has agreed that yes, that the current proposal of assuming agreement that the PSOE presents disappears from the map, makes it possible, in the agreement that the PSC sign with Barcelona in Comú, together with Barcelona, will return to the appearance of the tasks of the presidency. Therefore, we would like to know exactly what the PSC thinks about the ability of the assemblies, to regulate and limit the increase in the prices of the loguers in the areas of highest tension, because we do not have clear people; because when they intervene, speaking of the decree of loguers presented by the Government, it was that: "Here it is not up to do it, which is to be done in Madrid, but what needs to do it. And when they can do it in Madrid, they don't. And they say... nothing, they don't say anything, in reality, about the subject. We would also like to know the criteria for fixing this regulation. They follow a reference to an index of reference prices, which, when plantings that have to include income as criteria, do not accept it. "That the cents, that tax data..., but the income of families at the time of fixing the index of reference prices, do not want to include it. If we don't plug this in, we won't punch the cylinder, we won't limit prices and families will continue to target 60 percent of their tickets to pay a logger. And they must continue to abandon their homes, their barrels, their schools and their empty ones. Well, they're basically talking about making bonuses to those that come under the index of reference prices, based primarily on the market. We don't think it's going to be good for anyone who puts fair prices on the loguers. We think it's time to punish those who don't. For this reason, I have proposed, too, to increase the co-responsibility of the great lords at the time of offering social logue, but neither have they accepted it, nor have they wanted to co-ordinate the great lords. But maybe the most incredible thing that doesn't show up here is when we saw the evolution of the point that asked us to review the Squad Moisson protocols in case of denunciation. It seemed to us that just ‘reviewing the protocol was insufficient, why is it reviewing the protocol? To change it to where? We believe that the protocol needs to be reviewed to ensure that the Mosses protect vulnerable families in cases of denunciation, much as they act as the judicial police. They can act as judicial police, but the attitude, the forms, the ways, the ability to mediate in the case of denunciation is political will. Therefore, the Mosses can have another role in the denunciations. If there's a political will, I'll have it, much as they act like a police officer. And that's about protocol and political will, and we don't see it. We see how, in cases of denunciations with private security companies, extra-judicial denunciations, the Mosses do not protect families. And we've seen that. So not only have they not accepted this, but they have also bought it from the government only if it is necessary. If they don't see it necessary, they'll forgive me, but they haven't seen the pictures, and they've never been in the dark. We think it's necessary, and we don't just give it to ourselves, the families who kick the Mosses in the denouncements say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word, to defend the papers, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, Mr. José Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.86.0	Thank you, President. First of all, to give thanks to the Member and to the group that proposes this motion, because it offers us, or, as a minimum, there is the potential to face the housing policies of Catalonia. It is true that the motion and the papers that we have agreed to take advantage of some aspects, is to say, take up a better one, or plant a better one of the coordination and the joint work of the Generality with the locals, put an emphasis on the identification of the empty habitats in our municipalities, plant some..., how to change or increase taxation to the empty habitats, and therefore create an incentive to enter the market; it is required the better for the offices and locals of the dwellings. And, also, what we want to highlight a lot, even though he was talking about it at this point they didn't admit it to us, but the hope is, from the point of the young man, to regain the consensus in the National Habitats Pact. With all this, we want to congratulate the group that proposed it because it is taking it back from that spirit. But here you see the part where no papers have been admitted, and, in fact, where the potential of this young man is not shown. And it also coincides with a few points that have raised the common carrier. The points I spoke to before we voted in favour of them, but when we talk about making policies beyond this coordination with local authorities, the young lady fails. It's denied, it's blocked the ability of the legislative potential we have, it's to say... we proposed a point that really put the emphasis on a new law and didn't admit it. It does not want to take advantage of the potential of the Catalan Civil Code. That is to say, in fact, the motion itself, while on the part of the local coordination it does very well, it wants to reduce the Generality to a deputy. In fact, the motion backs the hope that, in the background, he only wants to take care of the management, that you make an expense, but always under the criteria of a state law, without taking advantage of our capacity to self-government. In the background, they only understand the housing policy as the subsidiary of the State. And that reminds me why, as well as coming from the same political family and sharing trajectory for a while, you're on the socialist bench and I'm on the Republican bench. Not only do they not believe in the right of the Catalan people to decide their future, but they just don't want to take advantage of the margins of self-government that we have. But, in fact, even when it comes to management and expenditure, you have admitted a matter in which there is an unorbited expenditure without any economic memory, and here, this, in Parliament, is quite gratuitous: we can always ask for more money, but without saying where we are, if we stop spending or if we increase taxation, that is gratuitous, that is said..., in Spanish, "to shoot with the king's gunpowder. But in this sense, I can deduce what points we will vote for and what points we won't. Now, I wouldn't want to forget a fundraiser: the young man doesn't raise fundraisers. The problem of housing has to do with fiscal, economic and political incentives which, when economic growth returns, the price of housing and lloger disappears. It is the governments of the State that have created deductions and incentives to bury the stable in stone. They've rescued who's been enriched by speculation. They've put local administrations against the ropes if they don't add up to this building cylinder. And that doesn't stand up to the young man. I understand that a Member of Parliament in Catalonia may not be able to deal with all this, but it does strengthen the idea that Catalan housing policy is a subsidiary of Spanish. This condemns us to a growth model where, always, housing will be a luxury, and the economy will create real estate bubbles. I understand, however, that, for these reasons, you are in the Socialist Group and I in the Republic Group. I gave up that the ability to make political revenge limited for the interests of a state government and some state chambers that, in the background, make the policy that allows them the IBEX 35 ®. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word, to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group Junts per Catalunya, the Lord deputy Antoni Morral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.88.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, Members and Members, once again we talk about housing, a young man who invites us to discuss the Socialist Group. To say that this young man inevitably poses in some aspects long lights, is to say, those aspects that make reference to planning, and also short lights, those that make reference to the emergence that we have in housing, so today, right? We want to value the agreements that we have reached by trading and trading with this young man's stake, because it seems to rise to us. It seems to us that, in these aspects of long lights, we have reached some chords and also in short lights. That is to say, with reference to the re-editing of the National Habitation Pact with the participation of all the parties involved, especially the assemblies, it seems to us that this is an important issue, and the predisposition also to initiate in a participatory way the drafting of a new draft law that requires structural reforms, as also invited us by the Group d'En Comú Can, therefore, go to the fund, right? Therefore, in these fears that we have convinced, that we have granted, it seems to us that we have reached agreements. Also with the short lights we have come to agreement on very concrete aspects that make reference to the emergence, to the need we have today, that in many of them are already working from the council, and, repeatedly, therefore, they have reminded us of the effort..., the willingness, the predisposition and the effort that is being made also in the increase of resources in the joints, the local offices, in the rehabilitation aids, right? Now, there are some aspects, four concrete points of the motion, in which we have not been able to agree, because it seems to us that they complicate, let's say, management, not make it more efficient, and, at times, therefore, create some problems that do not solve the objective, that they claim, let's say, the goodness of the proposal, right? As for the improvement of the IRPF, for example, for those owners who have, let's say, their habitat for the loguer, combining..., this is a competence that we have shared, in any case, with the State, and that the part that the Generality has, therefore, cannot deal with this question in substance, right? Also the subject that refers to the price..., to tax the prices of the logger, for which it makes to combine, therefore, the fiscal data, registers and cadastrals, that seems to us that this does not guarantee that it becomes a correct element that it can be, that it can produce..., and even that it can produce dysfunctions. And two aspects that also seem to us to be a little distressed and that, at the time of the motion, are complicated to approve, it is to say, the compromise of 1,000_million euros per year for ten years seems to us that so much good is possible to approve, but that requires, let us say, a technical kitchen to be able to concreteize it. At times, too, 20_percent of what it is to live with in the next year, for which it means, it managed it alone and time, so, what it supposes to be able to guarantee this quantity, right? Actually, we share, I believe, diagnostic; it's obvious. With the data we have, so the diagnosis is easy to share, we share all the groups here in the chamber. Housing has been placed in one of the country's most important problems. The constitutional right to decent housing for everyone, today the Administration is not able to guarantee it fully. The data are so eloquent, the pressure of demand is brutal, the months of emergence are saturated and subordinate, and therefore this is a difficult problem and the diagnosis is easy to share. Why did we get here? And this is a reflection that our group, therefore, wants to put on top of the table. We have come all the way here, therefore, because housing policies must be able to be valued in long periods, from fifteen to twenty years. There is no group of this chamber – perhaps with the exception of the Ciutadans Group, because they have never ruled together nor the Generality – which is responsible for housing policies or why today the housing park in Catalonia is so low. Because, from habitat, it has been done, from the purchase of soil it has been made these last years, and important, and it has been built sheltered habitat, but this habitat has gone to the sector, later or later it has gone to the private market – this habitat has gone to the private market. If this has not been so, if what was publicly acquired has been public until eternity [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] If priority had been given to housing from the principle, of course the housing park today would be much higher than we have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.89.0	Congressman, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.90.0	...and here we all have an important share of responsibility: the gatherings during all these years, the Generality and the State. And so, in this sense, that the situation is what it is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.91.0	Congressman, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.92.0	...so I think it's shared responsibility of many of us. Sharing this diagnostic also seems to me to be important for starting the path to the consensus of a new national housing plan. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.93.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Lord deputy Sergio Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.94.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Members, Members, Councillors, as you all know, housing prices are once again a major problem for many people in our autonomous community. For this reason, from Ciutadans we have received with great interest the motion submitted to us by Congresswoman Ibarra on behalf of the PSC, so much so that we have submitted many papers with the intention of improving it, which was really so thanks to her willingness to reach agreement. We are very pleased that we have been able to accept or deal practically with all the issues that we have presented from Citizens and now I will explain why we have presented some of them. Members dealing with housing issues must remember that, from Ciutadans, we have offered on numerous occasions that the index of reference is used to deploy public policies that encourage the reduction of the prices of lloger. So far, this index of reference has been used to make it nice, but it has not been used for anything at all about public policies. Unfortunately, the separatist parties that support governance have always voted against us, as, for example, when we proposed linking the Avalloger to this index. What we have defended with our concern to the youth is that there are improvements to the autonomous quota for the owners who place their habitat at a price that is below 90_percent of the price index of the logger. This can help to reduce the price of wine, and it would also help to reduce the price of wine in the same way as lower prices. We have also defended improved mechanisms to detect empty floors, but we did not want to disagree that it would facilitate the rehabilitation of housing and increase the rehabilitation aid that it has as its objective the affordable social security logue. These are also habitat policies, but they are not just habitat policies, they can also help improve accessibility, reduce energy consumption in buildings or generate jobs. I'm looking at this chart. [[The orator shows a graph.]] Before he spoke of the presupposition, it seems to him that the presuppositional proposal is foolish. Here you can see the autonomous communities that have grown demogically in the last decade according to the assumption that they invest in housing in relation to the total assumption of the autonomous communities. Here's Catalunya. In relation to midjana, we're in the middle of midjana. In Catalonia, half the middle is reversed than in the rest of the autonomous communities. What does that mean? This means, of course, that we are the community with the least public habitat in relation to the number of inhabitants we have; it is the autonomous community – the only one – where the prices of the habitat are already over the time of the bubble, and also the autonomous community with a greater number of denouncements. And what's going on? So it happens because the Generalitat, the government of the Generalitat miserably and badly public money in its nationalist obsession, that is to raise a border between Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards. Then, obviously, there is no money for hard term public policies useful to guarantee the welfare of the citizenry, as is the case with housing policies. This is the consequence of the management of this government, of the governments that, more... when it seemed to us that the generality did not have responsibility for what it went through with housing, when the competence is of the generality since the year 80. This also forms part of the evil that has been done during the past decade by the nationalist parties that have ruled Catalonia. That is why we have presented a statement on the presumption that the Generality is going to apply to housing policies. Three years ago we proposed in this hemicle that the Generalitat intended to house a minimum of 1,000_million euros per year during a decade. At that moment, the party gave us support. In fact, the PSC voted against it, so I am very happy that it has now been incorporated, because I hope that we are not conscious and the rest of the groups are supporting it, because what is clear is that we will not solve the problems related to housing for more resources for teleprocess than for housing policies, as is the case now. We need a public housing park appointed to meet the needs of the citizens in this matter, in the same way that, in order to meet the needs of salvation or education, we need to have schools and public hospitals. But to do so, I need to make it a priority. Unfortunately for all those citizens of Catalonia who have problems accessing housing, while continuing to govern the process, housing policies will not be priority for the Generality. For Ciutadans they are, and that is why we will vote in favour of the whole House. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.95.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to fix its position, has the word the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the lady Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.96.0	Well, we find ourselves in a very complex situation, the price of housing does not stop to rise, in concrete terms the price of purchase and also the price of logger; the price of logger specifically in the last five years, a 30_per_cent to Catalonia, and, moreover, we allocate 40_per_cent of our minimum wage to pay the right, to pay the right, and therefore to cover a right as essential as housing. What's going on is that for a long time it's been understood as a commodity and it's still understood that way. Sixty daily denunciations and a million empty floors to the Catalan countries; a legal order, a few solo policies and fiscal policies that continue to encourage this speculation; a rescue to the bank, of 61,000_million euros, of which 40,000_million euros have been forgiven than we will ever see again. You are talking about expanding the public housing park, but the political parties that represent you in the joints have built a lot of public housing park, but they have made it into a sales buying regime, which makes us today find ourselves in a percentage that not even up to 2_per_cent, because this public housing park has crossed the speculative market. So, what's this motion for a resolution doing? So say obviates; obviates that we are already late to turn into a political reality. Make a national habitation pact? Well, of course. Calling social actors? Obviously. And the reference index? Are you still referring to an index of reference that the only one who wants to consolidate the market prices that are candy and that expel the veins from their barrels and from their home? It's just that these aren't housing policies. It's that another time we'll find ourselves in the same situation, and we'll be amazed before this situation in two years' time, that's for sure, that's what's wrong with the situation. Yes, but it is that the misfortunes do not fall from the cell, hold responsible and behind them there are very concrete housing policies of which you are absolutely co-responsible. So we need to lay down our batteries. It's political will. And we are working hard to make a legislative initiative that is truly consensual with all political, social actors, with the local world and with social movements.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.97.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix her position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party, Mrs Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.98.0	MPs, MPs..., where is the key to the sun's problem of the lack of public housing in Catalonia that makes the demand for people who want to access a public apartment double in eight years? For the key of the sun is not in what the members of the government say, that they have limited their powers. Quite the opposite. It has to do with that, after thirty-one years of counseling in the hands of people of Convergence and successors, they have not had a clear policy on public housing. That's why we find that the public housing park is only 2_per_cent. That is why we find that, far from reaching that 15_per_cent of public housing, which was a commitment made by law in this Parliament, we are where we are, right? We will support many points of the motion put forward by the Socialist Party, but not all of them, because we believe that, in order to solve the housing problem, man, we cannot do some kind of underground struggle against property rights. And that is what includes this motion. In this motion, therefore, it seems that, guided by the ideological hit of "we are against all those people who are multi-owners or great forbearers, you create a kind of two levels of property law. One that is full, that is of individuals, unique and exclusively of families, let's say, saving. And another, second category, which is therefore of the entrepreneurs, of the investors or even of the great forbearers. And listen, look, you can honestly encourage the provision of these homes to the public social rental park, but it is done through incentives not through criminalization and the creation, let us say, of a second-class property right. The right to property is full regardless of who is the subject of the property. And, therefore, to those, then, we will not give support. If we are going to make an intention, we are going to express a good intention even in those reference price indices despite the fact that we consider that intervention in the rental price has undesirable effects, not because we have prejudices about it, but because practice has shown that it has been so. And, on the other hand, in all those measures that you have put us on the motion that are almost almost liberally inspired, because, of course, we are going to give them support, aren't we? Because they're an incentive. We believe that, precisely in order to improve these conditions of access and to make the market more dynamic, encouraging is the way. Recriminating and repressing is a dead end.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.99.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To pronounce on the exams, has the word Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.100.0	Thank you, President. Well, very quickly, because I have very little time. To thank them, first of all, to the groups of Junts per Catalunya, Ciutadans and de Catalunya in Comú Podemos, the willingness to talk about the issues and to dialogue and reach agreements that we have made. A very short note respects the intervention made by Congressman Rodriguez of the Republican Left. Miri, we do not think that the Generalitat's housing policy is a subsidiary of any one king or any other. In housing we have competitions from the State, the Generality to the joints. And, therefore, we believe that the Generality has a law of the right to housing, some laws 24/2015 and 4/2016 that are very valid instruments to do a great job in housing, with a presumption of 35,000_million euros. Therefore, political priorities, that is what we ask of the Government of the Generality. And, look, sometimes, the political paths that you have referred to on repeated occasions are more linked to pure interests than not to ideological approaches. To thank them again for their willingness to negotiate. It won't give me time to take care of all the things we've been able to agree on. Basically, they are focused on the issue of empty habitat, to detect and act against empty habitat; also important, the fact of planting changes in the deposit of empty habitat. In this sense, it will be necessary to wait for the government's report to respect the effectiveness of this tax. We will be fond of this report which, when we resume the political course in September, we will see what results are given. And, also, obviously, this presuppositional endowment that we think is very important if we really believe that we need housing and that we need to face effective housing policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.101.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. [[José Rodríguez Fernández asks to speak.]] Say'm. I'm asking for the word for... [[Funnel veils]] all·lusions; thirty_seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.102.0	I would like to say that what the Member of the PSC said, which is of pure interest, I do not think it corresponds to this level of debate in Parliament. I have never disrespected a socialist deputy, and what I have raised is a political discrepancy of foundations, never of personal interests. I find it very difficult that in this Parliament, this level of debate is planted – I find it very difficult. [[Several Members are asking to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.103.0	Thank you, Congressman. There are separate voting petitions. Mrs. Segovia, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.104.0	Yes, President, please, to vote separately for 3.b and 4.b, for one band, and 3.c, 4.c and 5, for another.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.105.0	I'm sorry, 3.c, 4.c and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.106.0	Five.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.107.0	Five of the other. All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Servent and Mr. Soler. [[Someone said, "Mr. Soler first.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.108.0	So, Mr. Solé, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.109.0	Yes, President, for a separate vote on points 3.c, 5, 6 and 6a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.110.0	See, let's go back to it : 3.c...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.111.0	Five, six and six.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.112.0	Six bis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.113.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.114.0	Mrs. Garcia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.115.0	To ask for the separate vote on item 3a, which I believe has not been asked. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.116.0	All right. I don't know if they're any way to reconcile all the interests of the groups. Say'm, Miss Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.117.0	Yeah. We'll vote for it all separately, I don't go into the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.118.0	Anyway, let's try, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.119.0	Yeah. At 3.c., at 4.b i c i 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.120.0	Effectively. We're going to have to vote separately, sir. Let's start the voting, then. We'll vote all the points, and subpoints – I interpret – separately. So, let's start voting with point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved unanimously, i.e. 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has also been approved unanimously, 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting on the third point now. The vote begins. Point 3.a_has been approved by 124 votes in favour, against, 4 abstentions and one Member present who has not voted. We're voting now on point 3.b. The vote begins. Point 3.b_has been approved by 121 votes in favour, against and 8 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 3.c. The vote begins. The 3.c_point was rejected by 56 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. We're voting point 4.a now. The vote begins. Point 4.a_has been approved unanimously: 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting now on point 4.b. The vote begins. Point 4.b_has been approved by 117 votes to 4, with 8 abstentions. We're voting now on point 4.c. The vote begins. Point 4.c was approved by 117 votes to 12, with no abstentions. And we're going to vote now on point 4.d. The vote begins. Point 4.d_was approved unanimously: 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting for the fifth point now. The vote begins. The five-point was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 73 against and 4 abstentions. We're voting for the sixth point now. The vote begins. The sixth point was approved by 69 votes to 60, with no abstentions. We're voting 6 bis now. The vote begins. Point 6a was approved by 68 votes to 61, with no abstentions. And we're voting now for the seven-point and past this place. The vote begins. The seven-point was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and against, that is, unanimously. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Departments' action plan prior to the climate emergency]] [[302-0124/12]] And now we move to the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the plan of action of the departments before the climate emergency, motion presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. To expose her, she has the word deputy miss Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.121.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Today we present this motion for dealing with the most important issue we have in our time, which is no more than the climate crisis. We see it's not a matter of the future, it's a reality. Actually, this is the warmest thing on Earth I've ever met, and I'd like to start by talking about two news stories. These past few weeks we've known two news, one good news and the other bad news. The good news is that the Tribunal Superior de Justicia de Catalunya holds from today the works of the Maresme motorway, the C-32, between Blanes and Lloret, and gives the reason thus to the SOS Costa Brava plataforms i« Aturam la C-32. Therefore, the precautionary measures proposed are accepted, because – attention – the Generality is not fulfilling its own law, it is not fulfilling the Climate Change Law. The court gives the raison d'être to the platform, and, moreover, says that, instead of the C-32 extension, what would be hot is the best of the current road infrastructure. Therefore, what we see are the best times of the old Convergence, the Black Leg Convergence. In this case, it is not the Constitutional Court that is prejudicial to us, but it is the same Generality that is prejudicial to the territory. And this suspension is a small success for the Earth and for life, and I say it's small until the suspension remains permanent. Therefore, this prolongation is more than just a few other times, in which it was built and speculated with joy, in a soil that, by the way, already has more than 50_percent urbanized. Therefore, the thanks and congratulations to all the people who are leaving their skin in the territories to make the world a better place, for us and for our daughters, and once more the misunderstanding before the actions of the Generality. What do they do, counselor? Enlargement of the C-32 is not compatible with the fight against the climate crisis and neither is it compatible with sustainable tourism, nor is it Hard Rock in Tarragona. Therefore, I cease to insist on this model of the past, which serves no purpose, which destroys us, and do the favor of shutting down. And in relation to that, we have the second news. The other one was the maid. So this is the pain, and it skipped 15 days ago, when we were precisely in this inquiry. It is the ruling of the Constitutional Court against fifteen articles of the Climate Change Act. We are the first to object to this ruling of the Constitutional Court, which, every time it can, we see as giving a recent reading to the Constitution. He's leaving behind the paper he's supposed to be arbiter and he's occupying the place of politics, and, more importantly, with perverse intentions. The fight against the climate crisis is an unequivocal question of shared sobrieties, and you have not felt that you are giving this fight alone and alone; we must do this together, in a coordinated way from the street and also from the institutions. Surely, counselor, at this point we do agree, but I also want to say that in general you and we are very far away. And in order to be concrete, we are very far away because you said that the only way to work effectively before the climate emergency is to be a republic, an independent, clear republic. His words perfectly define the action or inaction, or the excuses of this government, because, of course, what do these words mean? That while we're up and not up independence we can't face the climate crisis? That they have a planet to go back to the buttocks and drag him to the light when there's nothing left to do and we're touching funds? That they use the Constitutional Court's ruling as an excuse for not doing their job? So counselor, we can't lose a second more. I have already said to the last plenary that we are still in time, but that we must put all our efforts, our intelligence and our generosity to face this task, and the Government of the Generality cannot spare itself behind the Constitutional Court. My company Hortênsia Grau said in the previous legislature: Climate Change Law is not a law of desire, it is a law of action and opportunity. And for the time being, what we're seeing is an incompliment behind the other, until such a point that you come to us laws that you're not yet, as if you're already there. You, in the inquiry, spoke of the Law of Residues as if you are about to come out of the furnace, when the reality is that only the preliminary memo has been approved and we already know that this law will not arrive until the second half of 2020. That is to say, we are at risk of the end of the legislature, of you calling elections, and we are left without this law. So it's not worth the apology. The climate crisis cannot be put on hold while you are busy stalling for bargains. We have already said this and we said it fifteen days ago: we are not before an environmental crisis, but it is a model crisis, and we need to move towards a post-capitalist and post-growth society. I'm done, Counselor. There's a lot of work to do, and the climate crisis doesn't make any distinctions between competitions and borders. So you can act now, and leave the excuses. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.122.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the first word, the deputy Jordi Terrades, of the PSC - Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.123.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, advisors, yesterday, in a question that asked the counselor, I think it was clear the position of my parliamentary group: it is time to recognize the climate emergency, and not just with statements. They are clear commitments, which are socially given and which bring us to a horizon of total decarbonisation of the economy in 2050, driving a new green agreement – Green New Deal – to Catalonia, Spain and the European Union, with sufficient funding to ensure the creation of jobs and a fair transition in the most vulnerable sectors and territories ahead of the necessary changes in the production and consumption model. The change that we have to produce is not just a change that needs to be made in political priorities and with new legislation, it is a change that affects, from our point of view, the joint venture of society, which calls on all of us. For this reason, we have proposed and proposed to the Councillor, also with a note that we have presented in this motion, and with a later one that will be this late, on the need that, beyond the declarations, more than every parliamentary group present its most extensive, least extensive, offer – I think it would already play, after practically more than two years, that the first climate change summit was held in Catalonia – a single climate change summit in Catalonia to make compromises, to try to reach agreements, jointly administration, but also from our point of view is more important – the conjunction of the Catalan society – undertaken, signed, environmental, social and political sectors to reach agreements, jointly, but also from our point of view it is more important – to bring about a climate change summit in Catalonia – to make compromises, to try to reach agreements, jointly with management, and also from our point of view, the conjunction of the Catalan society – to undertake, signified, environmental, social and political sectors, on the basis of this agreement. One of the essential fishes of the Climate Change Law – before we talked about it – we agreed on it in the later Ple of this Parliament, which is the appointment of the Committee of Experts on Climate Change, an independent committee that is objective. Objects in what? Especially in reducing emissions of gases with winternacle effects. And it is true that the Constitutional Court has set a limitation, but it has not set the limitation of which reduction for each of the sectors should be once the overall parameter is set for the State, and the State has been set for the European Union. This piece that for us is fundamental, and that is the Committee of Experts on Climate Change, we already have it. It is an independent body that will have to propose to the government the assumptions of carbon, that will have to bring them to Parliament, and it will debate if it approves them and agrees them in its parliament. As I said, in order to agree on this milestone, I believe that there will be broad internal consensus in Catalonia, broad agreements with the State, follow the path of the Paris summit and the path also set for the European Union; agree an energy transition for all renewable energies; also incorporate environmental taxation criteria; pay special attention to the rural environment and environmental challenges to encourage sustainable production in the agricultural sector; promote sustainable mobility, which encourages the electrification of transport and the reduction of the environmental impact of infrastructure, and introduce, in the National Pact for Industry, criteria and actions that allow the adaptation of the industrial sector to globalisation, to the ecological transition and to the digital transition, because we consider it crucial to add to the catalunity of the subject matter of our industry's production criteria. Thirty years, in all these sectors, they pass very quickly. And, therefore, as the government, as all folds, as the conjunction of the Catalan society we lay the piles to reach these ambitious goals that we have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.124.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Next, also to defend statements, has the word MP Nattalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.125.0	Good morning to all of you, and especially to the company of "C-32. Congratulate you for the work you've done, for disobeying the machines that drain the forest and for this judicial victory that demands that this barbarity of infrastructure be put to rest. Mr. Calvet, take note of the great work done by the companies and companies of "Let's stop the C-32. [[Greetings.]] Today, in fact, we will vote in this motion and in the next proposed for the CUP - Creed They constitute a point on the subject, but, as always and many times the day, the basic movement, the popular movement, and, in this case, the ecological movement, passes us over and achieves victories that are very difficult to achieve here. That said, about the motion they raise, we cannot be against these proposals. These new pages of motion are, from our point of view, a pure and hard programme of which we could call 'green capitalism, with some barriers, with some questions in legislation that are already contemplated, others in which we would vote, in fact, in favour. We want to say everything, when we talk about the socio-ecological crisis, the socio-ecological crisis that the planet has seen, we cannot make it obvious that we live in societies that support extractive capitalism, oil extraction, coal and gas to obtain energy and material benefits from the free market, an extractive capitalism that generates brutal inequalities, a system that generates without any large amount of gases with winter effects. And if that wasn't enough, those resources aren't renewable. I made it under the umbrella of the Green New Deal, of this new green social agreement, and, before this reality, we ask ourselves a question: a new green social agreement, a proposal that does not question growth without limits and could continue to be effective? We believe that not many of recent studies show that an energy transition without questioning this unlimited capitalist growth is impossible. And we, also analyzing the work that you are doing concretely at the Barcelona Assembly, together with the PSC-PSOE, which, moreover, is the most responsible for the environmental policies of the Spanish State and the international agreements of this Spanish State, what we see is that with this agreement that you present in environmental issues is a further setback in the struggle against the ecological, climatic crisis in Barcelona. Barcelona is the most punished city for the contamination of the crucibles, and in the agreement that they have just presented they do not even raise the limitation of the crucibles nor withdraw the agreement with the Port of Barcelona to build two nine terminals. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We could continue to detail some of the issues – and I finish, Vice President – but we believe that radical changes are being brought to our life models, to our forms of production and to the design of cities. In the late days we will try to unfold these questions with more detail. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.126.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Remind people in the public that they cannot approve or disapprove of Members' interventions. Next, it is the turn of Congressman Francisco Javier Domínguez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.127.0	Thank you, President. With climate change we talk a lot about increasing temperatures and that is why we have this sheet, in case it cools temperatures. We have a motion of nine pages and almost seventy sections and sub-parts. Usually we are grateful for the cooperation in the transactions or in the acceptance of amendments, but we have received the final text a short time ago. Therefore, we will leave the thanks for another occasion. We started with the fire at La Ribera d'Ebre, a point that talks about the new forest model, support to the rural world, increase in the number of troops in fire prevention and extinction. Each of these three words would give for an entire motion, and it is a matter that is very important, but we went from point to point with a mere declaration of intent. Still, we'll back you up. We continue with the Climate Change Act. The laws, in principle, are to develop and implement them, and this Government is not doing so, this Government is not developing the Climate Change Act, that is, we make climate emergency declarations, but we are not developing the law that we have at our disposal. At the very least, it's inconsistent. Energy transition. Measures against energy poverty, promotion of renewables, self-consumption, electrification of ports. All very correct – in fact, we will support most of the points – but not practical because they are very little detailed, the measures, but, yes, you can say that you have tabled a very green motion, and that, I suppose, should be favorable to your audience. And we got to the fracking. Our Citizens Group is very clear about what we want with fracking. The hydraulic fracture is a technique that has high risks, we do not like fracking; the competition is in the Government of Spain. Conclusion: we must urge the Government of Spain to reject this technique. All else is cheating on the loner. Regulating fracking by creating a maze of insustainable demands so that it can't be done... Let's be clear and play clean: whoever has the competition is the one who has to rule out this technique. Agriculture and livestock. Are cows the problem of climate change? That is, the FAO, in 2006, stated that it even reached up to 18_per_cent the responsibility for greenhouse gas farming, but more recent studies and corrections by the FAO itself fit it to about 4_per_cent. At present, everyone accepts that energy production and transport are responsible for the 70_per_cent, and industry for a 22. We already know that for you to exaggerate it sells, but it would be good to be a little more rigorous and not to satanize a sector such as livestock and the meat industry, which already has enough problems to survive. And yes, we will argue that efficiency in livestock production needs to be improved. And the Government should promote modernization and good practices, and not wait for the private sector to do so. We will also support the re-evaluation of agricultural research, which will investigate new crops and varieties more adapted to mountain areas. These improvements help the sustainability and viability of farms. And we really support many more points on this issue. But we've come to forest management. We need to get the managed forest area up. This Government needs to promote forest management plans. And this government has to govern and encourage fewer unmanaged forests. We cannot afford another fire like that of La Ribera d'Ebre, because either we manage the forest or the fire will manage it. At this point I want to make a complaint to your group, because it turns out that, in the transaction you have submitted with Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, the text of the amendment that we have proposed, which you have rejected, comes out. That is to say, I demand that you apologize and rectify, because it is our text that is ultimately going to be approved and we are not going anywhere; the amendment has been rejected. I mean, please be clear. As far as the rest of the subjects are concerned, there are some..., quite long. I will focus on biodiversity and natural heritage, which I have to be a bit critical. While we agree that there has to be a draft law on biodiversity and natural heritage, which is perfect, it is necessary, I question a little if really the issue of desertification in Catalonia is the most important topic in biodiversity in Catalonia as to make it the most important topic in this section. If we talk about desert as if there are few people, we agree, because the main problem for diversity and natural heritage is that we are running out of agriculture, without traditional grazing and without forestry. Still, we will support this point because it is not wrong, but I do not think it is the most important point. We will talk another day, if you like, about important issues really, such as the management of natural parks or the fight against invasive species. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Finally, what I am very sorry for is that so many subjects have been touched upon, but with so little depth, very superficially. I believe that politically we can contribute more than good intentions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.128.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. To the spokespersons of the different groups I wanted to suggest, as long as this is a very long place, which has many points..., if I could anticipate the separate voting petitions to the Bureau before the interventions are over, would it facilitate us after the voting order, huh? , if we can get the Bureau to guide the separate votes which they wish to request, to the effect of preparing it. We are still in the turn to defend the papers presented, and the words of Congressman Ferran Civit, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.129.0	Good morning. Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, advisor, first of all, since..., I will take advantage that Congresswoman Sánchez has mentioned here people of Catalonia Vella, in this case of platform C-32, I take advantage, therefore, in this case, to claim the people of Catalonia Nova [[applause]] That they are the people of the Ebre River, that in this case, they will set fire to the fires that have taken place, that they will start to reboot, and I think that it is important to take into account all that we have been through now, and that, unfortunately, if we do not start laying the piles, this thing will grow. I therefore thank the Group of the European People's Party for making this proposal. I do not know, in this case, I am going back to quote Mrs Sánchez, if it is to be a Green New Deal, a decrease or some other model that we have all just designed, but we certainly need to change the product model and logically we need to change our relationship with around it, and I think we will find that in it. Now, yes, I must disagree with one thing, that, if we were a republic, a constitutional court did not fall on all the articles that here, specifically constitutional parties voted, and then were declared unconstitutional. Logically, we would obviously have the money. That said, therefore, I also take advantage of Councillor Calvet and Councillor Jordan, so... the fact that we also need to fight against climate change a territorial rebalancing. That's why it's also very important, they get out of the fire, all that can be done to reactivate the primary sector, logically with forest management, with the production sector, and obviously a river of Ebra not only denuclearized, but also that it has a new production model, because, if not, if we don't start doing these things, we won't just have the contamination, we'll have the climate change, but every year we'll have a new region and this new one will be all the territory cremated from the same, from desertion and desertion – one, from the inside, and the other, no – because, if not, some day we'll find it, that we can not burn it to the river of Ebra, not the territories that we'll have to the outside. And then maybe the country, in Barcelona, we'll see the risk, because the territory is everything, and that includes Collserola, including the Bank of Ebre and every one of the districts of this country. And that's why it's very important that, once and for all, we move from Powerpoints to Excels once and for all. It's all right, and that's what I share, so the statements from the different groups that have been talking, that the statements are all right, but obviously, what we're going to do is start acting. Haven't we been as fast as we'd like with the Climate Change Bill? Well, that's for sure. That we haven't been as fast as we want in so many things? Certainly. But we started walking. Therefore, the Climate Change Law is not fully developed, certainly, but this does not mean that nothing has been done. He's moved on. The Law of Residues, so now the public presentation has begun. We don't want it to be long, or so I don't know if it's the first semester or if it's the first quarter of the year coming, or before and if it's possible, let's see, as we can. And in this case, logically, we bet on a new model, if possible, also zero residue. And that includes all the areas we're talking about. When I was also talking about the department or Ministry for the Eco-Transition – in this case, logically, it would be ministries, I would prefer – and I take the French model or even the whole Spanish model, which in this case I must congratulate..., the only thing I will congratulate the PSOE government is the fact that it made a joint government and the fact that it made an eco-transition ministry, but for the rest, I have no reason to congratulate them. But that's why I think we'll agree on that. Now, as you can hear, we cannot make a new department right now, but the important thing now is that there is this, that it is present to all and every political action of the Generality. Obviously... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. The timer laughs.]] My color would tell me one thing, but the dit will make me do another, as you can imagine. Naturally, we also have the issue of the Law of Gases with winter effects and all the productive sectors, which so much good, therefore, we can apply now, but clearly, with the terms we have now, we have to follow the procedures. But in this case we can't give support. On the subject of regadius, we are in a process of modernization. Therefore, this means more efficiency, with better management; therefore, less use of water, that if it is now a quantity, you can reach up to 80_percent of the water. And, logically, in the different points that you have also commented on..., the bad news, which was the subject of the Constitutional Court's judgment. The issue of fracking, the subject of limiting the issue of carbon assumptions, also voted for this chamber, except in this case the PP, which abstained, but, I mean, the rest of the chamber voted for it. The topic of declaring the Mediterranean area free of prospecting, the progressive electrification of the main ports, the fact that the vehicles do not follow us from internal combustion from 2030, that it is reduced to 50_per_cent the dependence of the fossil fuels, and very many other things, that even it is curious that Minister Ribera said that it was stupid to have filed an appeal, but curiously did not withdraw it. That said, listen, we already know that we will vote many points and we have traded many points with you, and, logically, with Deputy Cid. Thank you very much for the proposal, and thank you very much for the generosity. And let us hope that if migrants are rescued out of disgrace some consider it illegal, or make references consider it illegal either..., let us hope that fighting the climate crisis is not considered illegal either. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.130.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of Congressman Narcis Clara, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.131.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, Counsellor, Members of Parliament, guests, on the way in, state that there is indeed scientific consensus to consider that climate change has anthropogenic causes. There is no doubt, it is the activity of the man who caused it. From here our firm and total compromises in the fight against climate change. It must be borne in mind, however, that this is the first time our society has faced a challenge like this. We don't have previous experiences, we know what's going on, we know what's the point we want to achieve, but the methodology builds it as we analyze and study this problem more and more and develop them to fight it. I'll read you a quote from a politician who I believe is confirming this opinion and who I don't think can be doubted, or his deep knowledge of the political and economic structures of power or his sincerity in the fight against climate change. Mr Barack Obama expressed the following: "The change to a cleaner energy economy will not pass overnight, and will require difficult options along the way, but the debate is fixed, the climate change is a fact. I think that implicitly it is, and this is also the opinion of many experts on the issue, that policies are to be implemented that are feasible and that do not destroy the socio-economic entanglement, because, in this case, instead of moving forward, we would retreat. We have to move forward with ease, which is not slow. "Sweetness and slowness are not synonymous. It can be driven in a very fast and healthy way. Tanmateix, you have to snuggle as far as you can. Entering the content of the motion, Councillor Calvet stated that you are serving a French language. I would add that the aesthetics of her young lady vaguely remember, nor that she continues in a subtle way – I am not angry – the forms of the programmatic guidelines that the Cuban Communist Party approves at its congresses. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They consist of multiple proposals, with the aim of concealing the context and the real conditions of the problem. Examples are: to change plans that are already deployed and that work properly for the objectives they have assigned, such as, for example, the Catalonia Watercourse; to ask for actions that are already implemented, in concrete terms; to assign resources to the climate fund, when it is already granted to do so, and in what form; to elaborate a plan of revision, when it is already doing tasks in this sense, to ask for the Climate Change Law to be deployed, when it is already being done. And now I'll make an incis to talk about the C-32; I don't forget, years to the contrary. Obviously, we will pay attention to the precautionary measures imposed by a court, and we will provide all the information you ask. Now, I can't ignore the security context, for example. You ask to stop the works of the C-32 without bearing in mind that the GHG-600 and the GHG-682 are two lanes defined as accident concentration trams, with a high traffic. Moreover, they ignore the socio-economic aspects, as cost-benefit studies on the C-32 show that the indicators of socio-economic profitability are high. A fourth point I want to stress is confusion in translating competitions into issues as important as the closure of nuclear power plants, which is an exclusive competence of the central government. Ask for impossible terms to complete, given the administered times, another example. Another example is the requirement to approve the Catalonia Residue Law in three months. We agree, but this condition is not acceptable because it cannot be completed. Finally, ask to insert the Ebre River as the area to reduce the tropospheric ozone, when this problem does not exist. It may be recognized, however, that the content is clearly better than the example of the guidelines, which is also not a great compliment, but it has allowed us to agree on approximately 60_percent of the points. We have agreed to deal, for example, in hydraulic fracture, in environmental education, in almost all the questions about energy transition, agriculture, industry, and some aspects of housing and urban planning. Finally, just a few examples that complement the presentation on the activity that has developed and is developing the Government. U: Inventories of public buildings emissions and implementation of energy efficiency and conservation measures. Two: development of carbon dioxide emissions tax on vehicles. Three: In short, it will make the public consultation prior to this tax for economic activities, the Law of the area and the emissions of nitrogen oxides from ships. And so I could quote a few more, which has now given me no time to read them, but ultimately I would like to say, and summarizing, that there is a lot of work going on from the Department of Lands and Sustainability to substantially improve, in the medium term, the environmental problem in our country. Thank you, Vice President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.132.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to fix his position, the deputy Santi Rodríguez of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.133.0	Thank you, Vice President. Member Dominguez said: "It is a young woman who has almost seventy points, isn't it? Seventy-seven, divided into 350_seconds I have, I have less than two_seconds to be able to position myself on each of the proposals. It's obvious I won't, right? Two, three things. First of all, all our support and solidarity with the people who have been affected by the burning of the Bank of Hebrews, and also express our gratitude to all those who have participated in the extinction, both of the Government of Catalonia and of the General Administration of the State, and who have contributed to extinguishing this fire, I say, because it is point number 1, and therefore I think it is worth it. From here, the motion refers to things so different – with seventy-seven points there is margin – such as hospital beds, fracking, agriculture, quarrying, nuclear power plants – certainly nuclear power plants that do not emit gases with winter effects, and therefore do not contribute to climate change – and, after that, taxes, many – many, many, many – taxes! Some who are approved, those who are approved, increase them, and create others of us, to break the world's record of taxes. Obviously, you can imagine that we will not give there support. And the rest of the points, of the set of points, we will vote according to a criteria. We think it's important to make reference to it because it explains itself in the motion. And the criteria we're going to use are sustainability. Sustainability that, from our point of view, means hard to term all those actions that are beneficial to fight against climate change, obviously, but that, from the point of view, therefore, and allow to maintain a path of growth. And I'm saying, and I'm referring specifically to that, because the motion, in point 2, makes explicit reference to the decline of the economy. In the long run, therefore, a series of actions that talk and make the economy decline. We can't be more against this criteria, precisely because it's unsustainable, huh? And, therefore, this will be our criteria to position us in each of the points of the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.134.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the parable of the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.135.0	Yes, thank you, Vice President. Mr. Civit, the ruling of the Constitutional Court against the Climate Change Law is a shame, but as we fix it, the government can do things. It can, for example, do things like other territories to effectively prevent fracking. They can take all the measures to defend agriculture, industry, fisheries, water, biodiversity, forests, forest management, common rights, or, for example, to boost self-consumption, green public procurement, electric mobility, and economic taxation. So don't apologize. Mr. Clara, what is a shame is not the C-32, what is a shame is the C-63 between Lloret and Vidreres, which is known as the "road of death." And, Mrs. Sànchez, there is no mistake about adversaries: we are not adversaries. Specifically, on the issues: thanking all groups for the effort they have made, because we are aware that it was a childish youth, and this requires an extra effort. We incorporated all those measures, all those elements that we considered to improve the text. And then I'd like to get in there very concretely: the lords and lords of Ciutadans didn't understand that this was a model change. You pass them with the energy crisis, with the climate crisis as they do with feminism and with LGBTI rights. Therefore, we have not been able to incorporate anything practically. If there's any problem with any specifics, I'm sorry for the advance. Together for Catalonia and the Republican Left: of the thirty-eight issues they have presented, half were about to decafeinate the text and more about turning this young man into a gesticulation than a struggle against the climate crisis. Therefore, we have incorporated those that were positive, but those that came to decafeinate, no. And, finally: we have the opportunity to stand at the height of the most advanced countries in the struggle against the climate crisis, with a department of ecological transition, to which Mr.Civit referred. Tot points out that once more, Ciutadans, the Popular Party, Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana will agree because this is not possible. It's sad, but we have to admit that it's no surprise. They still have a few minutes to rectify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.136.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, we shall proceed to the vote. He simply wanted to confirm that the different groups had the voting scripts, the separate voting petitions, arrived at the Bureau. Are they all presented to the Bureau? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Okay. Therefore, we will just prepare what is in the voting guide, with separate ballots per block. And we'll start in a moment. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.137.0	All right. We will try to make a vote that is compatible with all the requests that have been asked, and, at the same time, with the extension of the young person, that is not small. In any case, I would like to say to the group that, at the next meeting of the Spokesman, we will talk practically about separate votes, because situations like those that will be donated now we must try to avoid them among all folds, and, above all, we must not improvise, at the middle of the plenary, separate votes, which must be heard that they are complicated, at a point, in a young man who has seventy points, eh? So, we will vote on the points I am going to quote, try, give the principle, match what the different parliamentary groups have asked for and the very extension of the motion. If there's any point that...; in general, they're separate points. If we leave someone to vote separately, let them say it at the end, because, if not, we will do, after, finally, the vote of the remaining points, after having voted, I insist, all and every one of the points that I will be quoting, one by one, separately. Okay? [[Pause.]] All right. So we start voting points 2 and 2.1– 2 and 2.1. Yeah? [[Pause.]] So point 2. The vote on point 2 begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Point 2. We're voting one point for one, point two. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no..., not 2.1; point 2. Point. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. All right, then. The vote begins. Point 2, only 2. The vote begins. Point 2_has been rejected by 13 votes to 65, with 51 abstentions. We're voting point 2.1 now. Now yes: 2.1. The vote begins. Point 2.1_has been approved by 89 votes to 38 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 68 votes to 61, with no abstentions. We're voting point number six now. Six, yeah? [[Pause.]] 6 and then we'll do the 6.1, yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The same thing we've done with the 2nd. First point 6 and then 6.1. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, there's the encapsulation, yeah. We can vote, therefore, on 6 and 6.1, because it's just in the encapsulation, okay? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 6 and 6.1, okay? – 6 and 6.1 [[pause]] - No, no, no, The vote begins. 6 and 6.1 were rejected by 13 votes in favour, 64 against and 52 abstentions. We now vote on point 7.3. The vote begins. Point 7.3_was approved by 90 votes to 4, with 35 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 7.5 – 7.5. The vote begins. The 7.5_point was rejected by 29 votes in favour, 100 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote point 8 – point 8. The vote begins. The eighth point was approved by 90 votes in favour, against and 39 abstentions. And now we're voting points 9 and 9.1, which, like before, is a statement and point 9.1, huh? , 9 and 9.1. The vote begins. Point 9 and 9.1 were rejected by 16 votes to 96, with 17 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 9.2. Can you vote together, all the letters? [[Pause.]] Subpoints? [[Pause.]] 9.2 together? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The d, the letter d. All right. So we're voting 9.2.d, huh? 9.2.d. The vote begins. Point 9.2.d_was approved by 94 votes in favour, against and 35 abstentions. We're voting the rest of point 9.2 now, huh? – the rest of point 9.2. The vote begins. Point 9.2_has been approved unanimously; 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting now on point 9.3. The vote begins. Point 9.3_was approved by 94 votes to 35. And we're voting now on 9.6. The vote begins. 9.6_has been rejected by 51 votes to 61, with 17 abstentions. We're voting 10 and 10 now, huh? – 10 and 10.1. The vote begins. 10 and 10.1 were rejected by 29 votes in favour, 61 against and 39 abstentions. And now 10.1.1, huh? 10.1.1, yes? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. 10.1.1 was rejected by 29 votes to 61, with 39 abstentions. We now vote on 10.1.2. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 29 votes to 65, with 35 abstentions. And now we vote on 10.1.3. The vote begins. 10.1.3_has been rejected by 29 votes to 65, with 35 abstentions. And now we vote on 10.1.4. The vote begins. 10.1.4_was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 64 against and 52 abstentions. We're voting 10.1.5 now. The vote begins. 10.1.5_was adopted by 89 votes to 1, with 39 abstentions. And now we vote on 10.2. The vote begins. 10.2_has been approved by 68 votes to 61, with no abstentions. We're voting on 10.3. The vote begins. 10.3 was adopted by 64 votes to 61, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on 12.2. The vote begins. 12.2_has been approved by 63 votes to 61, 4 abstentions and 1 Member present who has not voted. We're voting point 13.1. The vote begins. 13.1_was approved by 90 votes to 4, with 35 abstentions. We now vote on point 13.3. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 47 votes to 65, with 17 abstentions. We're voting now on point 13.4. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 33 votes to 60, with 35 abstentions. Let's now vote on point 13.5. The vote begins. 13.5_has been rejected by 29 votes to 64, with 35 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 13.6. The vote begins. 13.6_was approved by 90 votes to 4, with 35 abstentions. Let's vote now on point 14.1. The vote begins. 14.1_has been approved by 124 votes to 4, with no abstentions. And we're voting now on point 14.3. The vote begins. This point was approved by 65 votes to 60, with 4 abstentions. We're voting point 14.4. The vote begins. 14.4_has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 117 against and no abstentions. We're voting point 14.5. The vote begins. 14.5_has been approved by 126 votes in favour, 3 against and no abstentions. We're voting on 14.6. The vote begins. 14.6_has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 65 against and 52 abstentions. We're voting point 15.2. The vote begins. Point 15.2 was approved by 68 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Let's now vote on 15.3. The vote begins. 15.3 was adopted by 95 votes to 34. And now we have 15.5 and 15.7, which can be voted together. Yeah? [[Pause.]] So the vote begins on 15.5 and 15.7. These two points were approved by 67 votes to 60, with 1 abstention. And now we're voting point 16.2, which I'm pointing out is that you can vote on letters to, b and c, together. Therefore, 16.2 a, b i c. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. These points were rejected by 33 votes to 61, with 35 abstentions. And we are voting now on item 18.1 – 18.1. The vote begins. Point 18.1 was rejected by 29 votes to 61, with 39 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now, aren't we? [[Widow's remorse.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] What did I miss? [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.138.0	We would call for a separate vote on point 11.1 and a clarification: whether 13.2 or 13.3 was voted on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.139.0	13.3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.140.0	Val. In any case, therefore, 13.2 also voted separately. And these two can vote together: 11.1 and 13.2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.141.0	11.1 and 13.2 yes? [[Pause.]] The rest of the groups don't have a problem? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] So we vote 11.1 and 13.2 in a single vote. The vote begins. These two points were approved by 63 votes to 61, with 4 abstentions. And now – I trust now – can we vote on the rest of the motion? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 129 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] After the vote on this motion, of which we will speak to the Board of Spokesmen, I have already said, we suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. [[The session is suspended at two-quarters of a half and two minutes and is resumed at a quarter of four in the late and two minutes. He presides over the President of Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who are assisted by the Secretaries-General, the Major and the late Anna Casas and Gregory.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.142.0	Well, good afternoon. Let's resume the session with the split point of the order of the day [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the economic crisis and environmental and territorial conflicts]] [[302-0128/12]] It is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the ecological crisis and environmental and territorial conflicts, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose the young lady, has the word MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.143.0	Good afternoon to all of you, to all of you, to the few that we are here at this time, that it is difficult to debate the different questions that we have about the table. We're here to discuss a young man, too, about an ecological crisis, about climate shock. And the reason we're presenting the CUP - Constituent Creed is simple and concrete. With this young man we do not intend to put an end to the socio-economic crisis that we are experiencing, which is global and endangers the conditions of life in our territories– well, in the world–, it would be very pretense to aspire to do so, and we do not even identify the main lines of our political programme; with this young man, first of all, we would like to point out the limitation of sovereignty that represents being under a Spanish state which on the ground, sea and air constantly suspects and annuls the laws approved for this Parliament. Let's talk about the Climate Change Law. In the previous legislature we had a climate change law, we have said many times, pioneer in Europe; that it aimed to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases with the aim of reaching zero emissions by 2050. Two years later, the main elements of this law did not develop, nor do we have carbon assumptions to complement the reduction objectives, nor did they develop two of the most important taxes to reach the law's objective. Councillor Josep Rull committed to developing the tax on emissions from economic activity and the tax on emissions of nitrogen oxides from large vessels and cages, but Councillor Damia Calvet has decided that it is not a priority. The Climate Change Law, without these measures, is a dumb paper. And they show us a little more, with this immobiliistic attitude, that you, the government, who fill the discourses of environmental sustainability, only respond to the economic and political interests of the powerful, and, therefore, ignore the climate and socio-economic emergence. And we saw it a while ago; we saw quite clearly a sequence of votes in relation to the motion submitted by the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Communal We can see that basically we could see that the Climate Change Act has been repealed, because there have been many questions that were literally against what had already been approved in the previous legislature. This young man has a _second objective: to visualize struggles and territorial conflicts in relation to the environment, health, energy sovereignty, and, ultimately, tries to convey some of the demands of the collections that rigorously and persistently plant..., and plant alternatives of other forms of living, of other forms of hearing the socioeconomic model of our country. Today we are accompanied here to the Parliament of Catalonia by the plataformas, as we have already said in the morning, Aturem la C-32, Ribera Digna or the Catalan Coordinator against Incineration. Also follow us the platform of the independent leftist Stop Olympic Games to the Pyrenees. There are so many more missing, that every day they plant real alternatives that go so far as to assume that they cannot live from the myth of continuous growth. Deia, a crisis that you do not mitigate or adapt, nor do you face, because your mental mark seems to stand in the way of time. The Agriculture Adviser did not accompany us, but yesterday she said to Catalonia Radio – and that is not an example – that it is not possible to prohibit action in the forest because there is a protected species. We'd tell him, if you were here, I'd rectify it. Yesterday, we felt it and had the feeling of going back forty years or more in the political discourse of nature. Simplifying the complexity of forest management challenges and blaming environmental protection denotes a mental_framework and all retrograde. The protected species are for you. And the caldria that we review, all folded, the anthropocentric gaze that prevails in the day-to-day of public policies. We want to ask if this is the government's line for the conservation of biodiversity. Yesterday, the Conseller of Agriculture, of Esquerra Republicana, defended the old political positions of the extinct Democratic Union of Catalonia. In a context of struggle for sovereignty, struggle for the exercise of the right to self-determination, we would like to see ourselves disconnected from the links and chains that mean not only the Spanish Constitution, but also all the business alliances of the free market. I'm talking about the IBEX companies. And they don't do anything about it, but they do the opposite. The paradigmatic case – we have already talked about – is the case of the expansion of the C-32 motorway, which the courts have decided is incomplete with the Climate Change Law. A good setback, Mr. Counselor Damia Calvet. Last week exactly fifty years ago it was inaugurated this road, the first toll freeway, the current C-32 of Maresme. And besides, there's a grant to Abertis; a grant that expires in 2021. Paradigmatic example. What do we do? To a company that rep 30_percent of its tickets through the tolls of this road..., the best negotiation that was attended to by Mr Santi Vila [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , exconseller de Territori..., would be to widen it to renew this concession. Paradigm of abandoning the struggle for sovereignty; in this case the sovereignty for the infrastructures of the territory. In the next intervention we will just deploy the rest of the measures of this young man, that the one who wants, I insist – and I finish, Vice President –..., wants to place a small map of some of the struggles that really pose an alternative to the political settlement of infinite growth that poses this Government. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.144.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word the deputy David Cid, of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.145.0	Well, from our parliamentary group, from Catalonia to Comú Pode, we believe that this motion, presented for the companies of the CUP, as before, presented for our parliamentary group, which has been debated before, therefore, they see for us the weakness of environmental policies and of the struggle against the climate change of the current government Torra and Aragonès. For us, we have already told them repeatedly, they are a grey, ancient government, which, moreover, is not clear what its full route in environmental policies is. Mr. Narcis Clara did well before the expense came upon our proposals, didn't he? , matching them with Cuba – and in any case, Venezuela has left, I say – but I also say that there is nothing more like the development or Soviet development than its policy of infrastructure – for example, of road infrastructure – or to claim the fourth runway of the Prat airport, which is which defends its parliamentary group. Miri, you don't have a country project. I mean, they want to be a state, but they still don't know what to do. And in any case, as at the very least they have, in this case, a councillor of Territories and Sustainability, which is not environmental, because you have given up having advice of environment or of ecological transition, which is more likely to fix the embolisms of Sant Cugat or the embolisms of the Barcelona City Council than to lead the climate change policies in Catalonia. And look, we have a president of the generality who never talks about climate change. I have never heard it, Mr. Torra, nor a single word about one of the main challenges that Catalonia has today, which has – in this case – the Spanish State, which has Europe and which we have as civilization. We never talk or talk about the climate change. And Mr. Ferran Civit, with whom I believe – now it is not, but – that we share, I would say, even sensitivities and would say longings, right? "If they were a state, we wouldn't have a constitutional court that would tell us and allow us to do the environmental policies that we can't. Look, I don't buy them the argument. That is to say, it is obvious that we have a constitutional court that has become the third chamber and that has as its main objective to detail Catalonia's self-government, but it is that in environmental policies and policies against climate change, they do so alone. If that's exactly what you're doing on your own. And, therefore, you do not have an environmental project or a project to fight climate change; you do not have either plan A, plan B, plan C, or plan. And I'll explain why. Incomplete your own climate change law. This Parliament has said this in the previous motion, but it is more said by the High Court of Justice, for example, by putting an end to the works of the C-32. They do not complete their own Public Transport Finance Act, which has not been deployed; they have not put in place a fiscal measure to finance public transport from the year 2015 until now for more than we have repeatedly made proposals to them. They incomplete their energy and climate change plan, and since the year 2013 there is no new wind farm in Catalonia. They are against banning the practices of a sun used in Catalonia. We won't have a new law on Catalonia's remains in this legislature because they've found us these days, in this case with the negotiation we've had in our seat. Therefore, you in environmental policies and policies against climate change have renounced Catalonia's leadership neither at state level nor at European Union level. And look, the excuse for whether the Constitutional Court or we're not a state and when we get to be a state we can do everything, is that, in environmental policy and in the fight against climate change, it doesn't fit, because I'll set an example: look, the Barcelona Assembly. The most ambitious policy that exists in these moments of struggle against climate change, for example, the most ambitious measure, is the area of low emissions in this case to the city of Barcelona; that, while in Madrid, Ciutadans and PP, from the hand of Vox, they want to end with Central Madrid, which basically would tell us that it is smaller than Ciutat Vella, we want to make a zone of low emissions to the whole city of Barcelona. Or, for example, the Pla de lutte contre le change climatique à la citutat de Barcelona was, in this case, for an entity like C40, named the best plato de lutte contre le change climatique in this case of the whole European Union. Therefore, if it has volunteered, it is possible to lead environmental policies and fighting policies against climate change. And, in any case, if Catalonia wants to play a role in the international arena, I make a proposal to it: play it in the field of the land of the fight against climate change and in this case also in the defense of the environment, that at these times we are placing ourselves at the cua, not of the European countries – so that we want to be the Denmark of the South, that no longer queues –..., it is that we are behind other autonomous communities, such as the Balearics or as, for example, even in this case, the Valencian country, in the politics, for example, of managing residents. In any case, we do want to thank the CUP's motion. We'll give it support at all points. Always, when you don't write it, you want more ambition. You surprised us, for example, didn't you? in this case, the placement that is made on the Olympic Winter Games. We agree with the reference, but we believe that you did not feel in this case, the year 2030 doing some winter Olympic games in this case in Catalonia, among other things because it seems to us absolutely martial, with the climate change, to put it on the march. So we'll give it support. But there is nothing more of green capitalism or nothing more of greenwashing than saying that some winter Olympic games can be sustainable. As I was saying, in any case, we will give support to the young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.146.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, also to defend the papers presented, is the turn of deputy Jordi Terrades, of the PSC Group and Units to advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.147.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, counselor... to the two motions that are being debated today, my parliamentary group has tabled a single motion. Well, the common people didn't get a better pair, which I'll mention. Only one that I already know will not be accepted all and that, in the previous debate that has occurred from the motion presented to the parliamentary group of the commons, has it approved, for the vast majority of this Parliament ; that, moreover, yesterday morning, in the question that I myself put to the councillor of Territori, Mr Calvet accepted the proposal that we made to him; that it is the need, more than the debates that we can hold in this room, the need, that all the economic, social, political sectors of the famous country and we see ourselves in a second climate change summit to fix this full road that will take us to 2050. So, well, in any case, this issue that we proposed to the UPC will not be accepted, but Parliament approved it this morning. And I want to talk about the Climate Change Law, because in Mrs Sánchez's intervention, as in the case of some spokespersons that took place this morning, there has been, and by representatives of the same parliamentary groups that support the Government, a criticism of the Constitutional Court's judgment respects some aspect of the Climate Change Law for which it refers to the global emission reduction objective, rather than the sectoral ones, huh? , and that the committee of experts which this Parliament approved in the previous plenary session will allow them to fix..., or to indicate to the Government which should be this reduction of sectoral objectives because the Government can make a proposal for carbon assumptions in the Parliament, which are discussed in this chamber when the Government brings them here. Clari, who was the surprise? That the Constitutional Court has not invalidated, that are the environmental taxation taxes of which, the finalists, here, the two parties that support the Government, this morning, go and vote against one of the issues that my parliamentary group had presented, and that is what makes reference to the tax on economic activities that generate gases of winter effect. Home, contradiction by contradiction and criticism by criticism, allow them to carry them out, from the parliamentary group, a criticism of foundations, eh? , which to that which the Constitutional Court has said that the Generality, which this Parliament has the capacity to legislate, we ourselves vote against. So, the government, the two groups that support the government that make them look at each other, huh? You can't come here to make contradictory speeches in this sense. We believe that the fact that we have already given this independent body, which is the committee of experts, will allow the government to carry the carbon assumptions, will also allow us to assess each year who policies it is that they are, because independent reports from this body will also be issued and we will have the opportunity to debate it in this Parliament. There is also the compromise, I have seen, of the Government, not yet deployed, but it has granted in the governing council, of which would be the social committee or social council of participation of the Climate Change Law, and this summit that I spoke to them. And to go... we, at some of the points proposed to us by the UPC, will vote in favour, not others; some of us have already done so this morning. The theme of the C-32 is not one; we have always defended the validity of this infrastructure. We do not understand the speech made to us by Mrs. Nattalia Sánchez respects to renew the concession; we are against renewing concessions of high-capacity lives. And we advocate mobility or electrification of mobility; also of the private, also of public transport. And we'll need to replace internal combustion vehicles for electric mobility vehicles. And we're gonna need road infrastructure, too. And I respect the theme of the Winter Olympics, which we have also defended, and I only raised one thing for them: in any case, the Government of the Generality and the Barcelona Assembly have set up a work committee that is analysing this theme, and parliamentary groups will have to define clearly whether they are in favour or against it. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] It's all right. We need to define ourselves clearly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.148.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of the deputy Marina Bravo. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.149.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor, Councillor, environmental and territorial conflicts, that is what this motion is about. Conflicts in which it is true that we rarely find ourselves on the same side as the CUP. In conflicts we do not usually coincide, but on some environmental issues we do, because the truth is that we are going to vote in favour of more than half of the points in the motion. We will vote ‘yes, for example, to implement in concrete measures the climate emergency declaration made by the Government a few days ago. Also to improve the mobility of the Jungle, through some actions on the road axes. We will be voting for a better control of air emissions and a proper reporting of results or an increase in budget lines for fire-extinguishing, for example. We will also vote in favour of the Government of the Generalitat ensuring – because it has to do so – that it complies with the Water Framework Directive, because the CUP becomes European and asks us to comply with a European directive, because of course it will not remain and we will support it. We will support compliance with this European directive, just as we would support compliance with any other European environmental directive, which they have done so much for the progress of the states together and in parallel in this area. It couldn't have been otherwise. We shall vote for all of this, without any problem at all. And then the other points, those of the conflict, which are sometimes of existing conflicts, arrive, but in many cases they are of practically sought conflicts. For I say one example: that of presenting within three months a plan with the aim of making effective the content annulled by the ruling of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court does not annul points of a law to punch anyone; the Constitutional Court annuls points of the law to ensure that the rights of the rest of the citizenry are respected. Trying to trample on those rights by looking for other tricks... because of course we won't be there. And neither will they find us in the points that speak, therefore, of stopping everything – everything. Stop works related to the Olympic Games that are already started or suspend the processing and licensing of all – and also puts it, "of all" farms, in which in many cases I am sure there are people who have already put enough investments and even illusions. We're not going to support them in any of that. Arbitrary paralysiss and moratoriums, without a predefined legal basis or clear criteria, are not good for anyone, and in addition to generating enormous legal uncertainty, as they sometimes come out very expensive for the Administration. Nor will we vote in favour of calling for the transfer of all concessions powers in the Ebro basins, not because we have any inconvenience in managing them from one side or another, but because there is no reason for efficiency to justify it. And, well, we generally regret that none of our amendments have been accepted, that some of us believe that we could have agreed, and we hope that the Government, of those points which we support and hope that they will be adopted, will then carry them out. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.150.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Congressman Marc Sanglas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.151.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselors. And also welcome the different plataforms that accompany us this late here, in this debate of this motion that in some point would be the second part, let's say, of this morning's motion. As soon as Mr. Cid showed ambition; or so, the fears that he didn't make this morning... I don't know how many points he took this morning's motion, if he showed more ambition at these points. Jokes to the band, anyway, look, Mrs. Natalia Sánchez, came here with a gesture, let's say, to please her the willingness she had had and with which we were able to negotiate the papers and please her this predisposition to be able to hear us. But you've also made a speech here that we can't share with the Agriculture Advisor, to whom, let's say, comparing her with the policies of Unió, I think there's been a bit of a slowing down. And in any case we believe that we are making innovative policies, we believe that we have the capacity to overcome, and with growth, so to speak, those policies that are done with the will to protect the territory, to make biodiversity compatible also with the various activities that develop there. And, therefore, it seemed a little past the times, this comparison. That said..., and let's lie in the concrete motion that you're planting. We share with you the concern of some points that are expressed here, and this is what has certainly facilitated the arrival of this agreement at various points. The struggle against climate change and the struggle against a way of making, of building, in this country, to grow up in an excessive way... they will find us, at their side. We do not share a model that has developed in this country in the last few years, where everything was xauxa, where everything was worth it, where urban growth did not have any type of cool, and obviously affected what growth was and affected environmental policies. Therefore, from this point of view, in this area they will find us there. We, from the government, have tried to change, we have tried to deal with some of these situations and we have tried to change, reduce, impact on these excessive growths. We have not succeeded in all of them, but we believe that it is necessary to encourage – and this is what we have tried – a diversified economy, based on production, and not on speculation. And that's what we've been doing. And that's why we have, I insist, agreed on a few points. In others it was not possible, but in any case we would also like to express our willingness to reach these agreements. For what he's doing, and for what he was raising from the Climate Change Law, we'll give him support. For what it does to the protection of the Pirinaeus Park, you ask us immediately, with good criteria, we have established a proposal to, let's say, that this was possible during the year 2020, and here we are. And, therefore, we also appreciate this predisposition to be able to find some logical terms. For what it does to the consultation of the Olympic Games, totally agree that the territory can manifest itself in relation to these activities that affect, and in a great way, these territorial areas, but we cannot agree with what you point at the construction of infrastructures. Many of these infrastructures do not have – or all of them – links to the Olympic Games, but in any case they are part of a planning, a necessary development of these territorial areas, and, in any case, we believe it has to be done. For what it does on the subject of the extinctions of hydro-electric concessions, totally agree, and for what it does on the transfer also of the competitions on the conches of the Hebrew. For what he does to C-32, we share with you, we believe that infrastructure is necessary, but we don't want it this way. We know that things can be done in another way. The reverse that the courts have given us indicates that there is something that has not just been done well, and therefore from this point of view we believe that we need to reflect to improve this situation in the construction of infrastructures. Just like we don't share the criteria, huh? , as you pointed out, of the growth that there has been of the infrastructures through, let's say, enlargements of concessions of other infrastructures. We want a country where the infrastructure of fish serves to manage the traffic, serves to manage all the mobility, and not to enrich some businesses. And, therefore, from this point of view, we will also try the changes that are possible. For what he does on the subject of PDUs, we believe that here there has been an ingenious work done by the government in his correction and, therefore, let us say, from the comfort, try to solve the disclassification of urbanizables that at these times are not right to grow, and, therefore, here we have posed ourselves. We think it's a good bet, we'll try to get to the maximum, and therefore, from this point of view, all the support. And, as far as Hard Rock is concerned, we had raised a point where it was clear that the government would not take any associated, present or future risks at the time of ensuring the availability of land where the Hard Rock project is to be located. You didn't accept this, but we want to show you once more. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out]] The compromise expressed yesterday by the vice president of this chamber...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.152.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.153.0	...that there will be no public resources for these great projects. This is the model we also want to reverse, not that it has public resources to develop private projects, and this is a model...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.154.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.155.0	...of other times we want to end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.156.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Deputy Josep Puig. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.157.0	Good afternoon, councillor, councillor, deputies, president. They pulled out the guy we're dealing with right now, I went back to listening, and I saw the interview debate on the 27th, and I didn't like people. The situation, I understand, is not only an economic crisis, but also an intellectual and institutional crisis. The motion focuses on a few symptoms, but in no case goes to the game. She's not constructive people, as far as I'm concerned. In the youth he hoped to find some concrete proposal to deal with collision between human beings and nature. They warned us, in year 72, 1,700 scientists who signed the scientific community's warning to humanity, that we would act to avoid the degradation of the biosphere, the atmosphere, the rivers, the oceans, the water, the soil, the forests, the living species. Twenty-five years later, in 2017, more than fifteen thousand scientists made a second warning saying that humanity has failed in time to make enough progress to resolve these environmental challenges. And, very alarmingly, in most of them we are even worse than we were then. I will focus on some concrete aspect of Catalonia. For example: the climate emergency situation that has affected us living, as a result of the social addiction to fossil fuels; the loss of biodiversity in natural systems; the radioactive poisoning of the biosphere by the operation, still, of three nuclear reactors that produce 50_percent of electricity in Catalonia and that are the furthest legacy of Francoism; the irrespirable atmosphere for the fact that it has been converted into a mouthpiece of all kinds of toxic products; the worrying erosion of the sun and its minute of content in organic matter, when the only thing is the most concerned, is the millions of years of activity. And, in the face of all this, they urge the Government of the Generality to do different actions that seem to me more like a guabarreig than not coherent political measures to address the economic crisis that we are experiencing. A list of measures, some of them looking too urban, urban, as recently reminded us of the master and friend Martí Boada commenting on the fire in the Ribera d'Ebre. All these divided proposals will be put to the vote, whether or not they will be approved or rejected, but I have the impression that, even though all their proposals will be approved, we may have contributed to making the country face the ecological and climate crisis that we are experiencing with rigour. Tell them that, in rehearing the debate of the inquiry and reading the motion, the words of Greta Thunberg echoed to the climate march to Stockholm on September 8th past. Allow me to share a part of this speech; perhaps it will resonate, as it resonated with me. He said: "We live in Sweden as if we have the resources of more than four planets; our carbon footprint is one of the worst in the world. This means that every year Sweden steals more than three years of natural resources from future generations. Those of us who are part of these future generations would like to see Sweden stop doing this right now. Our school break has nothing to do with party politics, because the climate and the biosphere do not care about our politics or our empty words, the only thing that matters to them is what we really do. This is a cry for help to all the diaries who do not yet write or report on climate change, to all those who have never dealt with this crisis as a crisis, to all the influencers who defend the climate and the environment, to all the political parties who see that they address the issue of climate seriously, to all the policies that ridicule us in social networks, to all those who try to look at another band because they do more for the changes that can prevent a catastrophic climate change than the catastrophic climate change itself, your silence is almost the worst. I would say, finally, we treat the climate crisis as the hard crisis it is. I invite you to make an effective and effective effort in this Parliament to tackle the global and local economic crisis. But I have the impression that with the motion that you have presented and today we are not doing the work that we should do. Please, pose us to do it. We don't demand as much from others as we demand from every one of us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.158.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position he has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.159.0	Thank you, President. In short, in order to position ourselves in relation to this motion on environmental and territorial conflicts, some proposals are made that some try to avoid conflicts and others provoke conflicts, and we will position ourselves in a sense as we did this morning in relation to the motion of Podemos – or Catalonia in Comú Podemos – on climate change: with sustainability. "Sustainable means having the environment present, but also having a necessary growth situation to ensure the well-being of the citizenry. We will stand against those proposals that want to skip the sentences of the Constitutional Court and, therefore, overflow the legal framework. We will also stand against respect for those proposals that mean paralyzing actions, actions or good that are on the march or good that bring together an important consensus – not absolute, but very important – in order to last in term, especially infrastructure, they say "of Winter Olympics Games", they say "in relation to the C-32. We will also stand against Parliament acting as the administration, which are the annexes to the urban plans, or certain actions that are to be considered and which are not to be considered. It's not a function of Parliament, and we're still refusing to position ourselves in relation to these allegations, are we? And we will not support decisions, for example, that seek to paralyze investments that we believe may be important, and important for the territory, such as that of Hard Rock Tarragona, with the benevolence that it is not a matter of the government not intervening, but rather of the government and, therefore, at the conjunction of the Catalan society, it is not a matter of public resources. Therefore, in general terms, this will be the position of our group in relation to each of the points of this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.160.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to position himself on the papers presented, has the parable of the MP Nattalia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.161.0	Well, I'll start with some of the questions that have been raised and that have to do with the papers. First of all, Esquerra Republicana, Junts per Catalunya : we have been able to reach some agreements. On the other hand, Mr Councillor, I do not know how the position of the Republican Left in relation to the C-32 felt; we were surprised. Welcome is this vision in which we have tried to set up, as the platform sets up, alternatives to a model and an unnecessary macro-infrastructure, costly and with brutal environmental impacts. For what he does to the intervention of Junts for Catalonia, and with all respect to Mr. Pep Puig for his ecological trajectory, well, we are four Members of Parliament for the opposition, you give support to the Government of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left; your parliamentary group supports the council of Medi Ambient and you know much better that I am the job that is being done and that is totally counter to his speech, which we, of course, subscribe to on the exploitation of carbon resources and the emission of greenhouse gases. Therefore, today you have voted, throughout the previous motion, against one of the most concrete and innovative questions raised in the Europe of the 21st century, which is the Parliament's Climate Change Act. Therefore, from lessons, also the just and necessary, I insist, with all respect to its trajectory in the movement and in the defense of renewable energies. On the other hand, on the question of the barns and all the folds that have arisen, we must recognize that our aquifers are now contaminated..., at a rate of 41 per cent of our aquifers are contaminated by purins. I, the band, Barcelona World, can't accept this slogan. You, from the first day that it was laid Government Esquerra Republicana - Junts per Catalunya [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] They put forward this speculative operation that what it does is pass public benefits on to private capital...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.162.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.163.0	... the box. They've changed their version, and we're totally against it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.164.0	Thank you. We called for a vote. Of the separate voting petitions, you can put out a vote with different blocks, which I will now enumerate, therefore, whether any group has any drawbacks, which I say. A first block with voting points 1a, 4, 6 and 7; another block with points 10 and 17, and then points 3, 5, 9, 15 and 19, each separately, these later. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Say, Mrs. Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.165.0	No, I think our request for a separate vote, I think we didn't send it to her and it doesn't match..., it doesn't match...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.166.0	What's the difference, Mrs. Bravo?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.167.0	Well, if you can repeat the first one, maybe we can...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.168.0	Yeah, one block with 1st, 4, 6 and 7; one block with 10...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.169.0	This first one could be.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.170.0	Okay. [[Someone says, "Not everyone else.]] Don't you? So, listen, we'll go back to voting separately all the points that we'll finish before this discussion. We vote, therefore, each of the points of this motion. Points, huh? Yeah? In this case I can't vote subpoints, I understand? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Point one, isn't it? The 1st.a. All right. So let's start precisely with the vote on point 1.a, huh? The vote begins. 1st. Point 1.a_has been approved by 74 votes in favour, 55 against and no abstentions. Let's vote for the rest of point 1. The vote begins. The remainder of the 1_point has been approved unanimously, i.e. 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has also been approved unanimously: 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. The third point was approved by 74 votes to 52, with 3 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 117 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting point number five. The vote begins. The five-point was approved by 91 votes to three, with 35 abstentions. And now we're voting point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 74 votes to 55, with no abstentions. [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.]] Tell me, Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.171.0	Excuse me, President, I ask you for the word to ask you to read the point you see next, point number 7, and point number 10, before you vote them or, if you want, at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.172.0	All right. If it seems to them, we will read, just before the vote of each point, the content of the same point. So, let's start reading the set point now. Ask Secretary David Pérez if he can read point number 7 and then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.173.0	The set point, which is: « To urge the Government of the Generality to reject the execution of the extension of the C-32 to Lloret de Mar and to cancel the commitments that entail the implementation of tolls in the shade, an increase in the tariff of the current tolls or an extension of the concession period of these.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.174.0	All right. Thank you, secretaries. We're voting this point, point number seven. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 117 against and no abstentions. We're voting now on the 8th point of the vote. The vote begins. Point 8_has been approved unanimously: 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved by 126 votes in favour, 3 against and no abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 10. We will do the reading beforehand, therefore, ask the secretaries who do the reading of point number 10. Secretaries...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.175.0	Point number 10: « To urge the Government not to make the purchase of land effective where is to be located the center of casinos of Hard Rock – before known as Barcelona World – through the Catalan Institute of the Sun or any other in the Catalan public sector.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.176.0	Let's vote, then, on this point. The vote begins. Point 10_has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 49 against and 68 abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. The one-point has been approved unanimously: 129 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We're voting now for point 12. The vote begins. The dot has been approved unanimously; that is, 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting now on the 13th. The vote begins. This point was also voted unanimously: 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote point number 14. The vote begins. This point has been approved by 129 votes in favour, against and against; that is, unanimously. And now we're going to vote for the 15th. The vote begins. The 15th was rejected by 15 votes to 62, with 52 abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 16. The vote begins. Point 16_has been approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions; therefore, by unanimity. And now we're going to vote for the dissent. The vote begins. The dissenting point was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 114 against and 3 abstentions. We're voting now on the number 18 point... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, say'm. Any subpoints, Mr. Rodriguez? What? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We vote, therefore, on the 18th... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In any case, we vote first on the head of the 18th and then we vote on the 18th, huh? [[Pause.]] Therefore, the encapsulation of point 18. Okay? [[Pause.]] The voting on the 18th-point cap begins. This encapsulation, that of point 18, has been approved by 126 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. And we vote, yes, on the 18th. The vote begins. Point 18a_has been approved by 126 votes in favour, against and 3 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the 18th. The vote begins. These two subpoints, therefore, 18.b and 18.c – 18.b and c – have been approved unanimously: 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And finally, we vote for the new point and go back to this place. The vote begins. The new point was approved by 29 votes in favour, against and 100 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into mental health and care for youth suicide]] [[302-0125/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on mental health and care for youth suicide, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose her, Mrs Rut Ribas has the word. When he wants to. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.177.0	Thank you, President. Very late in the day, all of them. Counselor... We have broken the silence and we have spoken openly of the reality around mental salvation, which is a reality very present and very common among many people and also, especially among many young people, because, as we have physical salvation, we all have mental salvation and this can develop into multiple factors that today are still little known or explained. As has been said on various occasions, one_of_each_four people experience some kind of mental health disorder at the length of our lives. 20 percent of young people have had an episode at least, and they have made a medical visit to attend to some mental or emotional health condition. And what we have to stop hiding from society is the phenomenon of youth suicide, the main cause of death among young people aged 15 to 34. In Catalonia, every 5.2 days, there is a juvenile suicide. It is not possible to look homogeneously for what are the factors for which suicides are produced, because they are multifactorial, but 90_per_cent is the consequence of a mental disorder or linked to a mental or emotional previa. I, as is the case with some public data yesterday late, two of two young people have done some tempting. At the international level, in their public policies, mental health for them, at the international level, is a priority. And here we also want you to follow him, to put people's policies at the centre and, therefore, to bring about prevention, attention and follow-up of mental salvation in an optimal way and to make available all those tools and resources for a good prevention of suicide. As I said, among the young population it is common to find cases of mental disorders and emotional impairments, so it is necessary that the youth perspective be introduced to all and each of the policies that apply, because we cannot go through other things that are some of the current causes, among the young, to develop some mental health situation, and these causes are obvious that they can be the instability and precariousness that surrounds them. And these factors have to be taken into account at the time of developing those necessary tools to meet the mental salvation and prevention of suicide, as well as any of the policies that are being implemented must infuse the gender perspective. Women have always been placed in a series of roles that represent an additional barrier, such as the glass floor or the inequalities, always present, that can evolve into an emotional or mental impairment, and, at times, when we speak of genera, we also have to take into account that it is a 40_per_cent the rate of tempts between trans people. Therefore, it is essential, in order to advance, that all policies are developing from a gender perspective. On the other hand, to prevent suicide or tempts, it can also highlight and highlight prevention, such as good emotional health, social skills, access to the resources of salvation and some policies of emotional and mental salvation. And we can't forget that youth suicide has to be faced with a social phenomenon that affects who decides to commit it, which makes the timing and the circle that then survives the pain. We would like to point out that we need early detection and, therefore, that there is a prevention of self-lesive conducts, tempts and the action of suicide, and we also want to bet on the promotion of health and risk prevention related to mental health, such as sexual salvation, addictions, drug use, alcohol and tobacco. With the conjunction of the young man, with all that he wants to introduce both in the policies of salvation and in the educational ones, he wants to put aside the stigma, a stigma that has always accompanied people with mental salvation, labels loaded with negative qualities, that prevent them not being able to cope with the affectation in a natural way and that discriminate in all areas. That is why we are calling for policies and mechanisms that address social isolation, the invisibility of the problem and the stigma, but above all those policies that meet all the needs. As I said at the beginning of the intervention, we have started to speak openly of mental salvation and suicide, and this has also been thanks to the entities that have always claimed it and that are now accompanying us, and taking advantage of it to greet us, that have always claimed this reality; a reality very present among young people, a reality that we have discovered and that we can not leave it any more silent, a reality that requires and deserves a great retreat, a careful attention and that is old for the opportunities that we really need for a good future. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.178.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, it has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Congresswoman Concepción Abellán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.179.0	Thank you, President. Women Members of Parliament, suicide is the first cause of death among young people from fifteen to thirty-four years of age in Catalonia; this is the magnitude and gravity of the issue. Youth suicide should be addressed as a priority on public agendas. We know that the causes are caused by many factors of social origin, and while it is society and living conditions that make young people sick, it must be the administrations that must work for mental health and well-being. Mental health is especially fragile and vulnerable when they are few years old and exposed to the risks and aggressions that this model of society produces for young people, which harms self-esteem, self-concept and uproots them from the meaning of life. All this at a time when identity is being built and where personal or material resources do not always exist to face adversities. We can say that an uncaring society, which tends to trivialize the pain, which leaves the person most in need and causes frustrations of vital projects, is not the society that will overcome the challenge of youth suicide. To ensure dignity and health is to develop a good income policy, equal opportunities for children, access to education and vocational training, quality work, affordable housing, unoverburdened public mental health services and the ability to accompany people in their pain processes. All this is what youth is not guaranteed. In addition to facing the aggressiveness of neoliberal values, individualism, meritocracy, consumerism, we leave them as an inheritance a state of well-being in dismantling and public policies that wait for someone to rule. To thank and value the work of the National Council of Youth of Catalonia, which have addressed the phenomenon of youth suicide and teach us to approach this reality from a youth perspective. The Encarem Guide to Youth Suicide is a useful tool for young people who seek support and guidance, and also for those who live or work with youth. And I move the Government to count on the National Youth Council for the impulse of action and to incorporate its voice and demands. Of our contributions, we will make several considerations. The mental health system is precarious, overburdened and does not guarantee the quality standards with which professionals want and should work. Talking about children's and youth mental health center and adult mental health center would give for a monograph, but we have focused on gaining a youth perspective in interventions, as well as on the sufficiency of resources, regardless of the municipality of residence of young people; today, territorial equity remains a challenge. The capacity to study and analyse the realities of mental health services in relation to youth is important. We must have better tools of analysis; the sources that generate this data must be improved, and we know that one of the impediments is the outsourced concerted management of mental health in our country, but that is not why they can perpetuate dysfunctions. We appreciate the willingness to incorporate some of the measures that we have proposed, but we also want to emphasize what is left behind. Developing a guide to support mourning and death in an environment that suffers the consequences of suicide seemed to us to be an essential tool for the emotional management of schools and institutes, and we regret the Government's refusal to do so. And, of course, we must invest in prevention. Prevention is about providing resources and developing a country-level project to work on mental health and emotional education. The Salut i escuela programme needs to be re-energised and can be a good instrument if we bet on multidisciplinary teams; after years of cutting it, we cannot put more pressure without putting more resources. Educating, caring for, empowering boys and girls is a shared responsibility, neither of families alone, nor of schools or institutes in particular; it is of the whole society; filling life with dignity, making your world liveable. We will vote for this motion, knowing that we are late for many and are far from what remains to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.180.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of the deputy Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.181.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Avoidable deaths are always a battle horse in plans of salvation. It is an individual responsibility, but above all collective, to be able to do whatever it takes to avoid them. And the more we talk, the more we talk about the presentation as well as the previous intervention, about young people and suicides, and especially when we talk about a juvenile suicide every 5.2 days. It's the first cause of death, that's already said, and I think there's a direct inquiry to everyone and everyone. It is not so much a time to reproduce statistics, but to have the courage to enter into a difficult mon and try public policies of approaching the mental salvation of adolescents and young people. The WHO Mental Health Plan 2013-2020 recognizes the function of mental health within the salvation of people. It marks a great element: prevention; I think this is an element that we are all reproducing. But above all it marks four objectives, that if we take the motion and the papers presented we will see where we are and where we are to go, right? Says: "More effective leadership and governance in the field of mental health; provision of comprehensive and integrated services in mental health and social assistance based on the community; application of prevention and promotion strategies; and lastly, strengthening systems of scientific evidence and research information, with a basic objective, to reduce the rate of youth suicide. These four targets set for the WHO are..., let's look at the motion and at all the papers we agree on this and some of the shortcomings there are. There was a session of work and appearances of the Youth Policy Committee, a hard and intense session, with striking witnesses; I did not attend, but I had the opportunity to read it. It would be good if everything that came up didn't just stay in this room and in the diary of sessions, but we could take initiatives from public, transversal, integral and contemplating policies into the service portfolio. It was also good, instead of running to capitalize on a work session, working on joint proposals, as we have done many times when sessions of this type have taken place. It is true that in Catalonia since 2005 we have the projects of struggle against depression and the impulse of the Suicide Risk Code, but we cannot forget that the Suicide Risk Code is not implemented throughout the territory, and therefore I believe that these facts should be taken into account. We have presented some papers, anti-stigma and anti-discrimination papers, and above all in the educational field, especially when the statisticians say that there are still 19_percent of children left, in mental health, who felt discriminated against for their teaching. This means that there is a task to be done to give knowledge of the disease, but above all to facilitate ways to identify and develop protocols before the problems of suicide. We have presented a statement, which has been admitted, about the need to train teachers in emotional skills, and the school has to be one of the detection systems, and in this sense, that's why we did it. We also wanted to incorporate the importance of the school nurse, such as the mechanism of prevention, promotion and attention in the school environment and, above all, the identification of risk ducts. They didn't admit it. Anyway, we'll vote for it. Reflecting that more than 20 percent of young people's visits to the meths are out of anxiety or depression, it is clear that the items that refer to the care continuum and to strengthen the CAP and the relationship between the CAPs and specialized care, and between the different specialized services..., is basic. Also – and it is an issue that has not been admitted, and it is incomprehensible – to reduce the first-visit waiting list, which at this time is high, and therefore, as we delay the diagnosis, we will delay its approach further. We'll give support to this young man. We've already said some of the things we don't share, but we've put forward papers to improve the text, to bring in girls' contributions as well in the appearances, and hopefully in the end we can share it with everyone. As I used to say, avoidable deaths are questioning us all and all. If every forty-second there is a person who is killed in the world, every forty-one second there is a person who is asking why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.182.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of the deputy White Victoria Navarro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.183.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, we all have some close-knit family member who has had some experience in mental health. Fortunately, most of you here have not met anyone who has decided to take his life; I have. Throughout my professional career as a psychiatrist, I have treated many people with mental health problems and I have been able to see how taboos and stigma make us talk little, very little, about suicide. To them especially, and especially to those who are no longer there and to their families, and to all mental health professionals, I want to dedicate this intervention. At the Results Center, in Catalonia, in the public mental health network, patients are visited on average once every two months. I'm not saying it, it's CatSalut data. Once every two months. Care for families, group visits, individual visits, psychiatrist, psychologist, nurse, social worker, all together, only once every two months. This is the ‘success model' they assume. Their mouths are filled with the excellence of the Tauli i de la Dreta de l'Eixample suicide prevention program, which are excellent, but what happens when someone lives in Sant Celoni, more than an hour away from their reference mental health center and has no strength or desire to continue living? What has to go, to the Dreta de l'Eixample, even further? Or be visited once every two months at your mental health center? Attention to survivors, also only once every two months... Their mouths are filled by talking about the excellence of the Suicidal Risk Code, which is also excellent, but the Suicidal Risk Code is nothing more than a program to detect cases of risk. And what do mental health center professionals do when they have to attend to these people and have no room in the agenda until two months from now? In our amendments, we proposed that this programme for the prevention of suicide and the care of survivors could be implemented in all mental health centres in Catalonia, and with the frequency recommended by the experts; but they did not accept the amendment. Because no one would think to give an antibiotic that has shown that it heals by giving it every eight_hours, no one would think to give it every two_days. And this is the situation in which we find ourselves in mental health, which, although patients need to see it more often, in mental health centers are only treated on average once every two months. And the professionals recommend, with all the honesty of the world, that if you can afford to go on payment. In some other specialty the professionals of the public network turn to the private to the first of change and nothing happens? And what about all those who can't afford it? We know that at least one of every six children and young people in Catalonia has some mental health problem. Do you know how many people are serving on the public network? One of every twenty. One_of_each_six needs it, one_of_each_twenty is being attended to. This means that out of every three who need it there are two, two children and young people who are not receiving attention in the public network. If they can pay for it, they may be in private, but how can they claim to prevent suicide if they don't even ensure that all the people who need it are going to receive attention? That said, a ‘success model'. It is essential that there be an interdepartmental suicide prevention plan in Catalonia, as there are in other autonomous communities, because prevention begins in education, and there are training programs in social and emotional skills that have shown effectiveness in reducing mental health disorders and the risk of suicide. In some other area of mental health would it be conceivable that there is a treatment that has proved effective in preventing a disease and is not being applied? They also did not like the amendment we had proposed in this respect. The fight against the stigma of mental health begins with people with mental health needs receiving the attention they deserve and, for that, you dedicate the public funds they need. Because, if not, all they propose in this motion is, once again, only empty words. And to move from words to improving people's lives requires responsibility, they need to put aside their other priorities and, gentlemen of the Government, to put money, and to really put people at the centre of their policies, because with their policies they are in time to make the lives of many of these people make sense. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.184.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and to fix his position, he has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonés. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.185.0	President, to speak from the Escó. We wanted to show, first of all, that we agree with the set of questions that were initially raised to the motion; also with the additions that have taken place. We think that it is important questions such as the review of the service portfolio, such as incorporating a youth, and not only youth, but youth organizations, in the analysis and intervention; placing the school as an adolescent health promoter environment, or giving a boost to emotional education in schools and institutes, emotional education that some generations have not enjoyed, we have never practically known. That said, it is very difficult for us not to go into another aspect that for us is always the determinant and the phonenal: everything that we approve of today in the young lady, with what means of materials and economics will be effective? With five? Because we have gone to see the set of points that we will certainly approve, and, look, of the set of points, we only find paragraph 7, or agreement 7, as an economic reference, and what you say is to provide resources for primary care, but it doesn't just quantify it. Therefore, we insist – and we will never forget this – on this idea of how to give alternative, for the public health system, which is which most people can access or which they could access, which today is collapsed, and which, obviously, or have more resources, or little – not much – will serve what we are..., or which we will approve on today's day in this Parliament. And a more generic reflection, which is not related or does not intend to confront any of the agreements, or just the views that have been made on this issue on the day of today or in the late day of today. We are very much referring to what is the origin or cause of suicide, and we are insisting very much, in an appropriate way, on mental illness, but we should go further: to think that it is also the one that leads to giving up the most precarious, that it is dignified life. And we never want to forget our political analytics and, therefore, we find that a patriarchal society, a society of male violence, a society that is neither able nor able to guarantee for the conjunction of the population a habitation or a work worthy – in fact, not just a work – is a moaning cause in the origin of suicide. But we also have another issue: there are sectors that are not part of the most impoverished and exploited population in our country and the conjunction of humanity, which today are also involved in suicide – and we are talking about young people – because they cannot bear the pain that causes them a...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.186.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.187.0	...society– and I ended up, president– with values based on competitiveness and individualism.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.188.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.189.0	Thank you, President. Fortunately, the CUP spokesman has gone further than I thought, because if you didn't have to say he fully shares his thoughts; and he shares the initials, not the finals, right? But, certainly, this is an important problem, it is a problem that you deserve to approach with a motion one of the groups that supports the Government, and particularly the group of the same Health Counselor, and we share the need to provide resources, to improve the mechanisms to address the problem of suicide risk and that involves mental health in general, but in the end we are always talking about the same: economic resources, which must be translated into personal resources and material resources in order to be able to do everything we approve. And resources get used to getting and get used to prioritizing something as rare as assumptions, which is exactly where this government has no value to do. And the government says because there has been no parliament that has rejected assumptions, it has been the same government that has not been able to approve assumptions to address precisely the needs that we have in many areas, among them that of salvation, among them that of mental salvation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.190.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mrs Montserrat Macià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.191.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, counselors, deputies, deputies, parliamentary staff, friends and friends who accompanied us from the guest gallery, very late. From the outset, our parliamentary group supports this motion that deals with one of the most sensitive and complex issues we face as a society: mental health and youth suicide. Some public health problems that the World Health Organization says are of the highest magnitude. We give support because it forces us to focus the gaze of this Parliament on an absolutely priority issue, which questions us as a society, and makes it cross-cutting, with a youthful perspective and with a gender perspective. In this sense, we thank the parliamentary group proposing and the rest of the groups for their efforts in terms of the issues and the transactions they have reached, so that a motion is obtained that puts the attention and does better in aspects necessary to prevent, attend and act. A few better things to do with the need to eliminate the stigma that still weighs around mental salvation, and the silence that adheres to it, with the benevolence that "mental salvation is not always synonymous with "suicides because only the one thing we do is still stigmatize suicide even more. Secondly, the need to prevent and focus attention on mobile technologies such as creators of emotional stress and frustrations, for which we need study and data to help us hear and know the repercussions of social networks on our teenagers' states of life. Thirdly, the importance of emotional education in educational environments to build resilient people before the adversities and, therefore, for the integral education of our young people. And finally, the attention to the family, the survivors. Why, Mrs Navarro, are there certainly many of us here who have had a similar experience, unfortunately, with juvenile or adult suicides, huh? Therefore, survivors, those who see an acute, complex and permanent pain for a sudden, traumatic death and who often do not understand each other. We must be able to accompany family members designing resources, as the pain of survivors has some devastating psychological consequences. And all of this we have to do among all of us, with experts, with professionals, associations, with mental disorders, with family members. And we must do so with the indispensable territorial perspective, with territorial equity to ensure that you see where you see the country's very own services, the very right and the very opportunities to face the mental salvation and prevention of suicide. This, therefore, is a young man that we need to understand because it incardinates actions that allow us to design the challenges of the future that must help us to build a better, more humanized, more solid, more compassionate and more fraternal society. As far as the interventions of the previous Members and Members have been concerned, there have already been data that pose the point hairs and I will not repeat it. Some data that has already been filled in at the monogram session of June 11th held in the Youth Commission and at the proposal of the National Youth Council of Catalonia. And in that the experts in mental health and juvenile suicides made an X-ray of the current situation in our country respects the issue we are dealing with. An X-ray that has, in short, allowed us to advance with this motion the readaptation, the adaptation and the elaboration of new formulations that will allow us to improve the instruments of prevention in mental health and juvenile suicide. We have the suicide risk code, effectively, that our experts make a very positive assessment, as well as their correspondent registry. But they must be able to assess it to know its weakened and its strengthened so as to plan new strategies. We believe that it is important for us that educational centres continue to design skills acquisition programs that they need to educate in the management of emotions and self-esteem construction, so that they alone, and beyond taking care of mental disorders, we will have a city of quality. We thank all the experts, the professionals, for helping with the achievement of this young man. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.192.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And to close the debate is the return, again, of Congresswoman Rut Ribas to position himself on the papers. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.193.0	Well, first of all, to thank most parliamentary groups for their willingness to reach agreement. We have tried to introduce the vast majority of the papers presented and celebrate that this is the case, because it expands in content and in substance, thanks to all the contributions that the groups have already made in their interventions. We wanted to introduce – that I was pale too – that the band of the introduction of the perspective of gender in all and each of the policies, therefore, also take into account interculturality and territory so that I was aware and that the diversity of each and every feeling is taken into account. Professional training was also discussed. We believe that it is an essential element for a good prevention of behavior and tempts and also for mental health impairments. That's why we thought we had to get the dot in. Also emotional education, and thus encourage that it is incorporated into curriculum programming as well, and the creation of specific formations and that it is also developing not only in school curricula but where there are young people and children. I will list the accepted and transactional items of the groups that have presented themselves. We have accepted the Emena 3 of Citizens and we have traded the Emena 1; we have accepted the Emena 2, 3 and 8, and we have traded the Emena 1, 6 and 10, and the Group of Catalonia in Comú We have accepted the Emena 2 and 4, and we have traded the Emena 1, 3 and 6. At the first point of the motion a transaction was made with all the items in points 1 of each group that submitted papers, and the rest of the transactions were in conjunction with the Socialist Group and the Catalonia Group in Common We can. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.194.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] Is there a separate motion for a vote on this motion? Don't you? [[Long break.]] Okay. Let us then proceed to the vote on the joint motion. The vote begins. The motion following the Government's inquiry into mental health and care for youth suicide was unanimously approved: 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into actions that harm coexistence]] [[302-0126/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on actions that harm coexistence, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word of the deputy Ignacio Martín. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] When do you want to, huh? I'm sorry, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.195.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, today we have a motion that specifically deals with coexistence, deals with the values of democracy, freedom and respect for the principles of pluralism and the defence of peaceful coexistence between the citizens of Catalonia and between the citizens of Catalonia and the rest of Spain. Well, I wanted to start my intervention anyway, because I think it's essential, making a record of an episode that took place twenty-two years ago. Yesterday he made twenty-two years of the kidnapping of Miguel Ángel Blanco at the hands of the terrorist band ETA, which after forty_and_eight_hours of anguish ended his life in cold blood, deceiving him two shots in the back of the neck. A twenty-nine-year-old who had his whole life ahead of him, whose only sin was to defend freedom and democracy in the Basque Country, which bothered the totalitarian gunmen of ETA and the political leaders who supported them, who took his life and destroyed his family. And from here I want to send our most sense of remembrance and our most sense of embrace to the family of Miguel Ángel Blanco. [[Greetings.]] That afternoon in 1997 I was only fifteen years old, but I remember as if it were yesterday how I wept that day hugged my family and many of our fellow citizens by a young man whom I did not know, but for whom I already felt a great admiration and a great affection, after two days stuck to the television and radio hoping that I could escape from the terrorists and avoid the fatal fate that the totalitarians had met. That episode meant for many to see the most absolute moral lowness, the infinite cruelty of a terrorist gang and of those who support it, those who claim to fight for the freedom of the Basque Country but that all they have achieved has been to try to subdue it and even destroy it. Yesterday when I saw images of Miguel Ángel the truth is that I was still excited and, in fact, I am again excited trying to make this memory, and that is why I am particularly angry to see how in recent times in Spain and specifically in Catalonia there are very worrying episodes of what Hannah Arendt calls the banalization of evil. When I hear... a little respect, Mrs. Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.196.0	Quiet, everybody... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.197.0	When I hear some Members, even from this chamber, talking about Mr Otegui as a man of peace, my guts are really shaking. A man of peace was Miguel Ángel Blanco, a man of peace is Mr Nicolás Redondo Terreros, a man of peace is Mr Fernando Savater, but never Mr Otegui, who was not only the political arm of that terrorist gang, but also is still unable to condemn the murders and terror caused by the terrorists. [[Greetings.]] I was talking that unfortunately in Spain these tendencies are spreading, these episodes of trivialization of evil and, frankly, I must say something that has to do with the Socialist Party in this case. I never really believed since I used political reason, I never thought I would hear a socialist minister, a minister of the Spanish government banalize the violence that my colleagues have suffered on Pride Day in Madrid, with aggressions, harassments, insults, which you can try to dedramatize. [[applause]] , but they certainly demonstrate their conception of democracy. May Minister Marlaska say that a pact with those who do not have to have consequences seems to me an abhorrence [[Funnel veils]] Don't tell me yes, ma'am... Really, Mrs Romero, I find it amazing, simply amazing, that you believe that it is permissible to justify and encourage the violent in a demonstration like that of pride in Madrid. [[Widow's remorse.]] It seems absolutely unacceptable to me. Frankly, the pacts that the Socialist Party and of course the separatist parties are coming to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.198.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.199.0	Actually, I, President, think that time should be taken into account, because they are interrupting me constantly and I think it is not reasonable.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.200.0	Silence all deputies and deputies. Go on, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.201.0	Look, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I don't like their pacts with Junts per Catalunya in the Barcelona Parliament, their pacts with Esquerra or even with the CUP in various municipalities, in many municipalities in Catalonia. I don't like them at all. Of course they seem intolerable to me, but in any case you are very free to do them. The one that seems directly nauseous to me is his pact with Bildu in Navarre. That's it, not counting it. [[Greetings.]] But I assure you that if I or any of the members of my group see one day that they do to you what you have done to us in Madrid on Pride Day, I assure you that we will condemn it with all firmness and roundness, and you have not, however, done it. [[Greetings.]] In short, this motion wants to be a motion for coexistence [[relays]] And what I wanted... it seems very funny to you. It's just... it's just, it's amazing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.202.0	Quiet. [[Greetings.]] Go on, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.203.0	But really what thanks you for what they are, the pacts with Otegi and Batasuna? What's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.204.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.205.0	What are you clapping about?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.206.0	Mr. Cid! Mr. Cid, I let the congressman talk. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.207.0	It's amazing – it's amazing. It's just... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.208.0	Quiet, everybody.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.209.0	Anyway, I guess I'll have it if I don't have thirty more seconds, 'cause, of course, I don't... Well, I wanted to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.210.0	Go on, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.211.0	I wanted to end by making a point of one of the points of the motion that you say precisely that we want to give thanks, recognition, to all administrations, to all the volunteers who participated in the extinction of the fire of the Ribera d'Ebre, and in particular to the UME, to the Military Unit of Emergencies, effectively, because we consider that the least of which has been objected to by this functional unit for our coexistence on behalf of Mr. Buch...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.212.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.213.0	...of the Councillor of the Interior, it seems absolutely unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.214.0	...time's up. It's a minute longer, and I've been kind, but it's a minute longer, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.215.0	Well, then, I'm going to go on to the exams. Perfect. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.216.0	All right. Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for the Advancement of Women, Congresswoman Alicia Romero has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.217.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Counselor... Miri, Mr Martín Blanco, what you cannot do is that a parliamentary group presents you with papers and not just come to talk to me, to talk to me, that I have presented you with some papers, to tell me what the position is and what the parliamentary group intends to do. Look, this young man is not about living together, this young man is about what Ciutadans' dedicated albums are about, which is to stir up the conflict, to continue with the confrontation, to continue with the'maranya'. [[Greetings.]] Yeah, that's what this young man went to and all the motions and proposals that citizens make. Yes – yes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And you know what your headline says...? It's just like I'm being applauded by the Independenceists, I'm being applauded by you as well. [[Widow's remorse.]] When the truth is told, they must applaud. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] When... oh, don't you applaud me? So better, because I don't want to be on the side of people who all day support the conflict and what they want is to continue with the confrontation and not solve what happens in Catalonia, in Catalonia and in Catalonia with the rest of Spain. [[Greetings.]] And what can't be, Mr. Martín Blanco, is that you come here to talk about ETA and compare terrorism... with what situation in Catalonia? With what kind of violence? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes; because you do a lot. With what kind of violence? It's that you're unworthy. It is unworthy that you are all day betraying ETA terrorism. With what kind of violence? Compared to what? – compared to what? And, listen, the one who spent the other day at LGBTI events has a lot to do with how you are facing the political situation in Catalonia and Spain. [[Widow's remorse.]] Exactly. Look, the police report doesn't exactly say what you're saying. But it's that more of you today have filed a lawsuit in the courts where they don't talk about rape. You in your lawsuit don't talk about rape, just like the police report. Miri, that's all right – that's all right – really; you would do this country a big favor as a majority parliamentary group and that won the elections..., is to make some positive proposal. Because, look, you say "Motion on actions that harm coexistence." Couldn't you do actions that favor cohabitation? , actions that favor conciliation? Is it that you can't talk about it? No, no, Why do you like it? To talk about reality, to make a great diagnosis, normally to find a reality totally skewed – skewed. It's true, Mr. Martín Blanco, sloppy. And we see it at every committee and every plenary. You see a reality that is faded, that is in its interest, its interest to continue with the conflict, that already goes well with the independenceists, because, while you support the conflict, they also continue. Yeah, 'cause they're talking about it in some way, too, in their young lady. You, in fact, by responsibility, by majority group, for winning the elections, should make some proposal that favors – that favors – conciliation, yes, that makes some proposal in place to resolve this conflict. It's just that there isn't one in this young man, on a proposal that goes like this. It's still criticizing someone else. If you already know, if you haven't done things right. But are we going to try to solve it or not? Do we always get critical? It's not just politics; there's a part of the diagnosis, but then there's a part of the solution. And you never plant it, because it's good to be here. And we saw it unfortunately last week at the demonstrations in Madrid, LGBTI. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, with the videos we've seen for the network. It's all right. A little responsibility, yeah. And I mean, obviously they're talking about two points of the fires, 'cause he was playing, I guess. Then the rest of it, nothing. I also wanted to tell the government..., because it is true that Mr. Buch was not the most uncertain with his words, but it is also true that they play a double game, because, while he made a few uncertain statements, then, on Squad Day, he says that the Squads..., well, he congratulated the Squads for the work, the autonomous communities, the UEM, said that the work and the function of the Squads is to be judicial police, to respect the law, to respect the law, to complete the law. So, listen, I'm telling the government too: enough double play already – enough double play already. And I'm also saying to you: let's, in fact, put an end to the conflict, let's stop keeping this constant frenzy that doesn't allow us to talk frankly, honestly, to move forward. I don't want to have a country that's been there for five years. And what I can't do, Mr. Martin Blanco, is all day, when you have to take away the Vox thing, is take ETA. Home, please. You keep a secret with Vox. We, yes, have made a pact with Juntes for Catalonia. And what's going on? And it is signed in public, with signatures, with agreements, to improve the lives of citizens in the province of Barcelona. What kind of pacts do you have with Vox, a xenophobic, racist and homophobic party? [[Widow's remorse.]] What? Home, therefore, escort, have made deputy mayor his candidate Begoña Villacís to Madrid. Listen, with five pacts? What do you mean by that? You do it all with treachery and night, while we make pacts with lights and stenographers. It's the difference; yes, it's the big difference. Listen, Mr. Rivera's been flattering himself all week, Mr. Rivera's been flattering himself, because we don't see him, and to try to make sure that the meetings don't go on with lights and stencils. So, look, I say, leave the conflict, let's settle this situation that we're living in and that we don't like. And, listen, give your face: if you are patient with Vox, you say so, but as at least you do not intend to give lessons to those who do things with transparency. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.218.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Orobtig has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.219.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'll try to focus a little on the debate. And, well, the first thing I have to say is that, Mr. Martín Blanco, I'm a little bit down with you, because I honestly had it for a thoughtful person and I see that in this case you are added to the parliamentary filibusterism that we have often seen practiced by your group. In your day you asked us an inquiry with terms that we may or may not share, but it was ultimately your legitimate right to raise a debate. He has finally brought us a motion in this House with completely different terms; they are not people consistent with the question he presented in his day. And I interpreted at the time that, taking advantage of the conjuncture of the facts that we were living in our country, the subject of the Ribera d'Ebre could be more fortunate or not the subject of the Military Emergencies Unit, and so on, that I wanted to introduce a new element to the debate, and I thought that I wanted to do so because of the shame that I had to talk to him with the usual mantra, everything that they bring to each plenary, and, in the end, you see here in plenary today and speak to us..., first of all taking a proper subject, and I believe that it is a subject that is not to be appropriated by anyone, that is the feeling that you can behave for our society terrorism. I believe that anyone, a Democrat, can't agree with those gruesome things that happened and that today we commemorated his birthday. So, that you show up in this intervention... the same way you do in your young lady, when you get close to Hipercor's facts, huh? There is an association, in this case, of victims of Hipercor that has explicitly demanded that any monopolistic group or attempt to monopolize what is generated by terrorist acts, right? And, in turn, you, therefore, what they do is to appropriate it, to interpose it in a motion and in this case assimilate that the facts that are produced in Catalonia, the political situation that we are living in our country... that is not much different from that of any other modern, advanced society in Western Europe. What happens to modern democracies is to resolve things with consensus, with dialogue and, if necessary, by voting in a referendum, and you who want only and exclusively are the permanent conflict. Actually, Mrs. Alicia Romero has already said that. And what did you want to talk about? They wanted to talk about it, didn't they? [[The orator shows a full chamber.]] In this case the Inés Arrimadas, the Pride and the facts that happened there, with a new smoke curtain. Because you all want to cover up your agreements with the extreme right, your agreements with Vox. How did you feel you were competing in this demonstration in the words that you did, didn't sign a manifesto, provoking all the protesters as you did? [[Widow's remorse.]] I think that in this case the leaders... no, no; you have all the perfect right to go there...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.220.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.221.0	...you have every right to go where you want to go. The theme is how it goes. I believe that all those of us who are engaged in politics have a public responsibility to seek consensus and paucity for our society, and you are the only one who do it is to generate chasm and want to provoke. It's what they do; it's what they make Catalonia day to day. And they have... I want to respect the Bureau's agreement not to say it with the terms that would agree, but, man, we are presented with a motion accusing the government, accusing the independenceist majority of practices that are close to societies... in short, of the Nazi society, of the Germany of the World War. We're not, like, this way. What we are looking for is consensus, dialogue; what we are trying to do is that everyone can express freely and vote. What we don't do are practical like theirs: talking about indults before there are convictions, accusing us of wanting there to be pardons before a court organ has ruled against anyone. What we want is that people can express; what we don't want to avoid is that people can express. Therefore, let us stick to the votes that we will have to take in this case of the motion they have put forward, which I believe is ultimately what we should do, man, logically add to all those who are in place. I think that our thoughts were even more generous than the words of thanks that you put in place for all those who intervened in the fires of the Ribera d'Ebre, because we even used authority and agents in this case, you would operate from other autonomous communities, things that you obviate with your focus only to raise the role of the Military Emergencies Unit. Listen, I can generally share whether or not a country has to have an army or not, but why do we have to raise the Military Emergencies Unit in this case before any other professional collection that has intervened in the extinction of the fire? For some like me, who we were born with a head of state wearing uniform... so, honestly, obviously the government doesn't bring us grateful records. But it's also true that the current head of government also has the door, the uniform, and quite often, isn't it? And so it expresses itself in its own forms. For the rest, I insist, our papers precisely sought that it is not possible to trivialize the facts, all the violence that the LGTBI collection suffers. We wanted to put in value precisely in this intervention, therefore, that the attacks on the collection have doubled this past year, up to thirty-five years, some of them very recently, and that, therefore, it is a last resort that we need to mismatch an important pronouncement, that we need to mismatch the fiftieth anniversary of the commemoration of the Organization for the events that passed, in this case, to Greenwich Village, speaking of the Lady Arrimadas, her number in Madrid, and ultimately speaking of things that were not the object of the inquiry or the motion. And therefore, logically, as you will understand perfectly, there are many other aspects that we will not vote for. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.222.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs. Glòria Freixa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.223.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, President. In the first place, and very briefly, I would like to thank the Honourable President Puigdemont for having..., let me share this experience of Junts for Catalonia. And then show them my pride in being part of this chamber, which represents all the views and feelings of this country. And, well, like the first day, I was touched by a Ciutadan youth who talks about living together. It was hard for me to hear that I had to see the title with the contents, but, well, I started reading. I started reading and even got excited for a while because there was a moment I saw thanks, I saw positive proposals, and I thought, "We're good. Thanks to all the special bodies, to the volunteers, to all the people who participated in the fires; thanks that certainly urge the government to do, and that have happened repeatedly, and that we will do once and for all times as anyone else. And that, as long as they like to read President Torra, they could also look at their Twitter account, where they give thanks to all these forces, and the UME incluses, would just miss; always. But, well, it ended very quickly, my surprise, then we went in there: condemn the statements of Councillor Buch. That's it. Didn't he touch it this time, not a thank you? Congratulate volunteers, professionals, public and state servants and question the counselor? It's about never recognizing any good government action, isn't it? Anyway, we're talking about this young man, who's supposed to live together. Living together? Or how to break this cohabitation? Because, look, on my scale of veins, there are Spanish and steladic flags. On the riser, we find each other wide loops and cuffs with the Spanish flag. And do you know what's going on? – and they know it very well –; nothing. Live together. And it's not just the responsibility of the parties that support the government, this coexistence and keep it. It is the responsibility of all parties in this chamber to work together to preserve this good collection that is coexistence, but here we never find it – ever. Always toilets, always coercion, always attacking us. What we seek here is always that they answer, with us, to the responsibility they have, that it is the coexistence of this country. We don't want any more repression, no more punishment, no more threats, no more teachers, no more communication media professionals, no more people are going to the town to pull out deep ties. Act in position! Put your ties, put whatever they want, but don't take away the deep ties, which are an expression of the citizenry. Aren't they bored to listen to each other? Seven hundred thousand votes less in a year and a half. It's to reflect on it, but you, instead of rethinking this speech, extrapolate to the Spanish. And there they deal with homophobic fascists, people who consider the LGTBI collection as evil, women as female. We haven't heard a word of condemnation from this partner they have. And then they're upset because the LGTBI collection doesn't want to go from its hand to a demonstration? And what are they going to do now with all those people who have had a bad attitude toward you? They're gonna make up a case? Will they create an unbearable political media pressure until all those who prevented them from demonstrating with them are judged? It's the same, huh, crime type? You can always make it up. And isn't it breaking up with people where people have a special sensitivity for the moment they're living? Isn't it a danger to go to Altsasu for a walk and to Errenteria? Their reports prove it, they've put them in evidence. The goal is to provoke, to seek conflict, to disrupt coexistence. Nothing's spontaneous. There are no ideals or convictions, every move is perfectly designed to win a vote. They don't care about Catalonia, but they don't care about Spain either. But, look, I still see a light in you; you have Mrs. Roldán. I invite you to return to that spirit of the year 2013, when Mrs. Roldán gave her hand to two million citizens who came out on the street to defend their rights and freedoms. I invite you that Mrs. Roldan encourages you to give your hand back to these two_million people who think different from you but who deserve a dialogue and a consensus, not to destroy them. Pay attention to me, because they have a lot to gain and Catalonia too. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.224.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is now the return of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.225.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament. I, Nacho, truly believe that the memory of the victims of terrorism in this country does not belong to any political party, it belongs to the general public. But seeing a Member face a party with victims of terrorism in this country its complicity with terrorism is a shame. [[Greetings.]] It's a shame. It is a shame that speaks a lot about the « banalization of the evil that you mentioned and the moral lowness that your party is willing to reach so as not to build in this country a democratic memory that is of all and all, in the fight against terrorism, but also in the democratic memory against the Francoism that your party has given to the extreme right in the Parliament of Andalusia. [[Greetings.]] "In 1955, Rosa Parks refused to give his seat to a white man. In 2019, Citizens refuse to give the Pride to totalitarians. The fight for civil rights goes in our DNA. That's what Carlos Pérez wrote, a senator from his party. And today they come here to demand that we condemn the Pride for acts of discrimination and intolerance. "We refuse to give the Pride to the totalitarians. Is it that you are doing something else? Are you doing anything other than yielding to the conquest of civil and political rights of the LGTBI collective to the extreme right in this country? I'm going to read a couple of news this week. « PP and Citizens seal in Madrid an agreement with guiños to Vox, which asks to respect the moral convictions in the schools. I am asking Vox to vote to reform the LGTBI law and adapt it to the moral convictions of the extreme right in this country. To moral convictions of parties that affirm things like: "A gay couple with a child is not a natural family, it is a family that needs therapy. Of course, because to educate in freedom is to indoctrinate, but to regain the formation of the National Spirit and the traditional family is to educate, in this country. And I think that when one is going to take a picture with the extreme right in the morning and in the afternoon a photo with the LGTBI collective would have to assume their own responsibilities in the government pacts they sign, which have public responsibilities. Rosa Parks, the montapollos of Alabama [[remorse of the voice]] I would also be very proud of another agreement that you have reached with Vox, the public, in your pact by the Government of Madrid, in which you commit, as the extreme right in Andalusia demanded, to send the health data of irregular immigrants to the police for sport to your country. Tell your senator, Carlos Pérez, what's safe– safe, huh? – that Rosa Parks sat on the bus so that now a party like hers will hand over the data of irregular immigrants who go to public health to the police for the sports of this country; absolutely sure. [[Greetings.]] And we could continue with the withdrawal of public funds to entities fighting for equality, against macho violence, or with which « macho violence, in its government in Andalusia, is today « domestic violence, so that Spain can come back according to which when one heard the neighbor, to whom they were beaten, it was better not to say anything and to shut up because they were family problems. And one point: if sexism is intrafamily, feminism cannot be liberal. Next March 8th you leave with t-shirts that put on « intrafamily feminism. [[Greetings.]] Or don't go, because no one manifests themselves because of intrafamily problems. But then it will be difficult for you yourselves to congratulate yourselves on your reports for riding chickens in all the political conflicts in this country. But when they go and recriminate their hypocrisy of photographing themselves and making public policies at the hands of the far right in the morning and going on March 8 in the afternoon, at least keep the composure and do not act as their deputy Patricia Reyes, who while alerting of a fascist siege at the LGBTI demonstration had to ask them to stop the live because he was escaping laughter. Shame on you. You do not have a problem of coexistence, you have a problem of connivance with the extreme right in this country. [[Some applause.]] We – and I finish this – just to mention the other point of your motion, I think it is a shame that you have to present to them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.226.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.227.0	... – I finish with this – an amendment, because they had forgotten to say that the relevance of the fire was not only that the councillor made regrettable statements, but that there were six thousand burnt hectares and thousands of affected citizens. I think it's a shame, which somehow points...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.228.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.229.0	...the moral lowness of their political positions as well. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.230.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.231.0	Thank you, President. Well, your young lady was theoretically talking about cohabitation, and I'll tell you, we'll tell you what it's like to make it difficult or even break up with our society or try to break it. Surely you will be able to feel very elusive and very elusive, because you are in charge, in many cases. The one who breaks or tries to break the coexistence in our home is the fascism, the fascism that freely calls for the streets endorsed and legitimized for you, from the communication media and from the institutions in which they agree and give them white paper and bleach. The violence against the working classes and against the popular class divides the coexistence. Bring together the poor, social exclusion and precariousness. It causes coexistence not to have a right to habitat, not to be able to have access to a decent habitat. Let racism and xenophobia live together. It divides the coexistence of male violence. Breaks the coexistence of the LGTBifóbia. It turns out that hate crime, instead of protecting diversity and minorities, is now used to protect the State's security forces and fascists against the right to dissent and the right to protest. Bring together the model of capitalist development, the tourism of the masses that expels the people from their homes and cities everywhere. It brings together inequality in salvation, in access to salvation and in access to the quality of environmental life. That's all that's breaking up with me. And precisely, to you, all this I think you have to ring them, you have to ring them if we see the political programs of governments and institutions in which you are accessing the government. Now, listen, to finish, if you want to make reference to this motion, it is that the institutions, if any, can make a contribution to the defence of human rights, to the defence of civil and political rights, to the right to dissent, to right to disobedience, to freedom of expression and, if any, to self-determination, let us know that, indeed, if we rely, if we rely on ourselves, there is no doubt that we will do it again. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.232.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.233.0	Thank you very much, President. First of all, to thank Mr. Nacho Martín Blanco for the reference he made to Miguel Ángel Blanco, obviously. Thank you very much. They will only allow me an incis about some interventions. Mr. Orobtg, who said he was causing him to be disappointed that Mr. White is moving away from rationality and, immediately, has drawn up a cartel. Looks like you've done it too from Ciutadans. In any case, I don't think it's very consistent to criticize this type of policy by doing exactly the same. Mrs Romero has ensured that her political party is light and stenographers. Don't think the same Mr. Torra, who ensures that Mr. Sánchez promised him a rapporteur and a party_table. We would if they were able to agree on the subject of the light and the stenographers. When we talk about coexistence and when we talk about what is happening in Catalonia and when we talk about what has been the transformation of that supposedly moderate nationalism that has ruled Catalonia for so long, we would never have imagined this supposedly moderate nationalism claiming the Slovenian way; never, in Catalonia. We would never have imagined this supposedly moderate nationalism systematically refusing to condemn violent acts to young university students or civic entities. We would never have imagined this supposedly moderate nationalism oblivion, denying tribute to victims of terrorism. Or, in short, we would never have imagined this supposedly moderate nationalism converting convicted terrorists, such as Carles Sastre or Mr. Otegi, into ethical and moral references of the process. We have unfortunately, during all this time, witnessed a moral degradation, ethical and civic of supposedly moderate and formerly democratic nationalism in Catalonia. And we didn't have an example today. Look, a few months ago some of you were complaining... – and in that case quite rightly, even though I imagine that some of you took a little surprise, didn't you? – Mrs Jenn Díaz explained an episode of her personal life that in some cases – I insist, you know the different reasons – caused a certain indifference in some Members, who did not applaud. The cruel half-heartedness with which you have, in the end, approached the homenatge with a applause which is demanded for the figure of the Miguel Ángel Blanco, the half of you, whom I have fixed, unable to applaud, unable to applaud more than half of you. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , shows that something hard is happening to the head and the heart – to the head and the heart. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.234.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.235.0	Plant 'ho. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.236.0	... your time is up. To position himself on the exams, has the new word the deputy Mr Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.237.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that you are telling me to pay tribute to Miguel Ángel Blanco on the twenty-two-year-old day that ETA kidnapped him and the next day he murdered him is extemporaneous or that is to break up living together, I find it deliating, simply deliating; it seems to me that really in this respect, at least in this specific aspect, demonstrates the enormous moral degradation that Catalonia suffers because of nationalism. I think it's absolutely delusional. [[Greetings.]] And Mr Riera, of the CUP, you as a conspicuous representative of this degradation and of this radicalisation of public life in Catalonia, because you are representative of a party like the CUP, I say one thing: who breaks the coexistence is not Citizens, who have positions that you will like more or less but that respect at all times the democratic principles of pluralism, freedom and equality [[remorse of the voice]] , and the principles governing any constitutional system...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.238.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.239.0	... who breaks the coexistence it is who breaks the siege of a political party, as did his youths with the seat of the People's Party. [[Greetings.]] That's breaking up the cohabitation. Who breaks the coexistence, Mr. Riera, who breaks the coexistence is the one who points out, who marks Judge Llarena's house with yellow paint to point out what [[applause]] , exactly as was done in other ancient times, indeed, his own night of broken crystals. Whoever marks cohabitation..., who damages cohabitation, who destroys cohabitation is the one who justifies violence because he does not like the ideas of others, who justifies that one can make a splash in Congress, can make a splash in his headquarters or in a demonstration because you do not like his ideas. That's radicalism, that's fanaticism, that's intolerance, and that really degrades coexistence in a way that is perhaps hardly reversible. I simply say to you that I am amazed, sincerely, that you have not had an answer up to the point when what I was asking here was a tribute to Miguel Ángel Blanco, you precisely who pay tribute to your executioner, Mr Otegi. [[Greetings.]] You honor Otegi and are unable to applaud Miguel Ángel Blanco. Shameful. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.240.0	We called for a vote. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.241.0	Vote separate from points 1, 1a and 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.242.0	What can they vote together, huh? [[Pause. Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]] Yes; Mrs. Romero, 1, 1 bis and 2?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.243.0	We would need a separate vote from 3, 4 and 5, but not in bulk. [[Bernat Sole and Barril ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.244.0	Mr. Solé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.245.0	Yes; we ask for separate votes from points 1, 2.1, 2.3 and 4, which can be grouped, but for which we see no longer can be grouped, and 1 bis. [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.246.0	Yes, Mrs. Roldán... One moment, I'm sorry – I'm sorry. Did you tell me 2.3, 2.4...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.247.0	1, 2.1, 2.3 and 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.248.0	Four or 2.4? I'm sorry I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.249.0	No; 1, 2.1, 2.3 and 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.250.0	Okay. [[Pause.]] Say'm, Mrs. Roldán; I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.251.0	President, to ask for the reading before the vote on item 1, the entry, and also on item 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.252.0	Point 1...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.253.0	Yes; there are subpoints, but they don't keep quiet, the subpoints, only the statement, and then also point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.254.0	All right. [[Carles Riera Albert asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Riera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.255.0	President, I understand that, for what it does at point 2, we can vote for the subpoints separately. If this were not the case, if we all voted together, we would ask for separate votes from points 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3. Or, if you want, to simplify it, separate vote of 2.1 for a band, 2.2 and 2.3 can be done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.256.0	Let's do one thing: like they've asked for other subpoints between point 2, we'll all vote separately, the subpoints of point 2, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.257.0	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.258.0	We'll vote first on point 1, and we'll read it in advance. Therefore, ask the secretary, Mr. Pérez, to read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.259.0	« The Parliament of Catalonia recognizes and appreciates the efforts and dedication of all volunteers, public servants of the Autonomous Administration of the Generalitat and of the local administrations and of the Military Emergency Unit of the Armed Forces in the work of controlling and extinguishing the devastating fire started in Torre de l'Espanyol on June 26, 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.260.0	We vote, therefore, on the number one point. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 65 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. We're voting now for the 1 bis point. The vote begins. Point 1a was approved by 125 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. Now we're going to vote for point number 2, the head of point number 2, and then we're going to vote for the subpoints, huh? So, the number point... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Point number two, cap, and then we'll vote on all the subpoints. They can't fragment him any more, can they? Therefore, we vote for point number 2, only the entrance of point number 2. The vote begins. Point 2 has been approved by 64 votes to 66, with 66 abstentions. Now point 2.1 – 2.1 The vote begins. Point 2.1_was approved by 63 votes to 66. We're voting point 2.2 now. The vote begins. Point 2.2 was approved by 68 votes to 62, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 2.3–2.3. The vote begins. The third point was approved by 68 votes in favour, against and 62 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 39 votes in favour, 72 against, 18 abstentions and 1 Member present who has not voted. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, sorry, yes, it has to be read. We're reading the point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.261.0	"The Catalan Parliament condemns all acts of discrimination and intolerance, especially those perpetrated with violence, that took place before or during the celebration of the LGTBI pride.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.262.0	The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 39 votes to 29, with 62 abstentions. And finally we vote on point 5. The vote begins... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The 5th in its entirety, huh? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 39 votes to 73, with 17 abstentions. There are no more points in this motion; therefore, let us move on to the next point of the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the cases of corruption in Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the condemnation of attacks on adolescents and young migrants]] [[401-00125/12]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Before we move on to this motion, we will certainly read an institutional statement. Excuse me. The fourth secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Delgado, will read it. When you want, secretary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.263.0	Thank you, President. « Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia to condemn the attacks on adolescents and young migrants. The past few months have witnessed severe attacks on adolescents and young people who migrated to some of the towns of Catalonia, and there have also been a number of demonstrations that seek to prevent the coexistence and diversity of Catalan society. As a compromise institution in the fight against inequality, racism and xenophobia, the Catalonian Parliament cannot remain impassable before these attacks. For this reason, the Catalonian Parliament strongly condemns the heavy attacks suffered by adolescents and young migrants and the workers of the centres who reside. The Catalonian Parliament claims the role of Catalan society as a society that supports the gathering of people fleeing persecution or situations of extreme vulnerability and arriving in Catalonia seeking refuge and protection. At the same time, Parliament renews its commitment to the recognition of the diversity of Catalan society, especially for the origin and cultural difference, which is never to be considered a problem that hinders coexistence, but a fact that enriches it. The Catalonian Parliament calls for no false speeches linking immigration to crime, which is only used to stigmatize the collection and makes it difficult to address this issue with the seriousness and rigour required to defend the rights of everyone, especially minors for their particular vulnerability. The Catalonian Parliament shows its firmest commitment to the protection of children's rights, as enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, in order to deepen the tools and mechanisms necessary to guarantee a project of personal autonomy. With the same objective, the Parliament asks the governments to work in coordination with the countries of origin, in order to avoid early development and to enable the conditions of welfare to facilitate the reincorporation of infants to their families, when this is the best interest of the child. In this sense, the Catalan Parliament states that a country response is needed to better and more effectively address the needs of adolescents and young people who migrate all alone, and to ensure the necessary technical and human resources and full cooperation between administrations, civil society and citizens to ensure that they can build their own personal life projects. Palau del Parlament, July 11, 2019. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.264.0	The next point of the order of the day... [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into cases of corruption in Catalonia]] [[302-0127/12]] ... is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the cases of corruption in Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. You have the word to expose it to the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.265.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon to everyone. There was tension in the previous motion and I believe that filing a motion on corruption will not help reduce tension and nerves, especially in some rows of this Chamber. As nervous as we saw in the interpellation a couple of weeks ago to the counselor; in fact, today he is not here, he will not want to hear again the truths we told him a couple of weeks ago. Truths like the data released by the last barometer of the Anti-Fraud Office, which said that more than 70_per_cent of the population considers that in Catalonia there is a lot or a lot of corruption and 60_per_cent of them considers that corruption has been increased or maintained in recent years, which coincide precisely with their governments, or reports of the General Council of the Judiciary that say that in 2019 Catalonia leads the shameful ranking of those prosecuted for corruption. The truth is that these data are shameful, but they are data that do not surprise us by seeing the history that has existed in Catalonia, where corruption was institutionalized, corruption went from parents to children, and even seeing how you maneuver to get the corrupt out of jail. Because although some have changed the name, although some have embraced the theses of independence to use the process as a cover, as we have noted, as we have mentioned above, scandals, bad practices, cases of alleged corruption, remain in force in this institution: irregularities such as the hirings of the CTiTI, the Cesicat, the cases of the DGAIA or agencies such as the separatist embassies or other chiringuites that you have, which are nothing more than the focus of corruption. Not to mention the process, which, as we developed the other day, is both the focus of corruption and the cover of everything else. And, as we see every day, you also avoid investigating, avoiding taking action, preventing defendants from leaving their seats or blocking appearances or requests for information made by the opposition. The other day the adviser in his intervention did not present a measure, he did not self-criticise; the only thing he did was to throw balloons out, talking about corruption elsewhere in the Spanish State. And while the accused MPs saw the spectacle sitting on their seats, or the high charges imputed without being ceased, they also certainly saw it from their offices. And we see, as I told you, that cases of corruption in Catalonia jump almost daily; they are, if I may, like the goals of the Sports Carousel. Because, look, in the last fifteen days, which is the period since we held the debate, until today, when we presented the motion, we have seen how the Civil Guard has entered this Parliament twice, how Mr Buch has been accused, how Mrs Borràs has been investigated. And we have also seen how a news that you could confirm could be miserable..., that you have even been able to divert funds for the Third World, for international cooperation, to chiringuitos, to entities favorable to your process or diffusers of your process. We are clear that your Government is not going to be exactly the scourge of corruption, that the measures you announce are not effective. That is why we want to delegate that government responsibility to this Parliament. That is why we want to present today measures for this Parliament to approve them and to force its Government to really work against corruption. Measures such as restitution of property damage to public archives where there are causes of corruption, or measures to pursue bad practices in the award of millionaire contracts, or that the Generalitat is personified as a particular accusation in cases where its image or heritage is damaged; that the judiciary is also given more resources, that the judiciary is respected and that the legislative processes in this chamber are unblocked to protect complainants from corruption. And finally, let it end with privileges, such as pains and pardons. And please don't let the defendants sit there and go home. We only ask for much of what we apply as a party in our ethical codes. As you see, they are courageous measures, transparent measures, measures that to present them it is necessary to have clean hands and high head, as we have the offices of Citizens, because with corruption there are no half inks: either you are with it or you are against it; either you are part of the solution or you are part of the problem. And today we will see, when the lights of the voting panels are lit, who is going to want to remain part of the problem or who, like us, is going to want to be part of the solution. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.266.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then there is the word, to defend the papers presented, the deputy Yolanda López, of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.267.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon. MPs, MPs, councillors, corruption is incompatible with democracy and is one of the biggest degradations the institutions suffer. That's why from Catalonia in Comú We can understand that it's important to fight it and, how not? , chase her. Catalonia is one of the territories of Spain with more cases of corruption, which have amounted to more than 2,700_million_de_euro. And the worst part of all this is that it is not something that is part of the past, but that today we can see that practices that are suspected of inappropriate ethical conduct continue to occur. That is why we find it absolutely necessary and commendable that proposals be put forward to combat the bad practices that some of us in our institutions exercise with public resources, which are of all and of all. But, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, we need to fight and condemn corruption wherever it comes from, wherever it comes from, whoever does it. What cannot be done is that you come to this House with a motion that brings a measuring rod to determine which cases of corruption should be condemned and persecuted. That's not wanting to fight corruption, that's not wanting to condemn corruption, that's not wanting to call for corruption. That's another very different thing. They have made it clear that they want to fight corruption crimes such as Palau, or the 3 percent case, but it is you who are covering up reprehensible policy models elsewhere. They have not made the slightest mention of corruption in other political spaces. What can you tell us about the corruption of the People's Party, which you kept in the government despite being the most corrupt party in Europe? What about the pacts that your party has made with the party of corruption in Madrid: Bárcenas case, Castor, Campus of Justice, Cuevas de Concejo, tax amnesty? What about your party's pacts with corruption parties in Murcia, such as the Umbra, Totem, Auditorium, Camelot cases? Or what about the possible pacts of your party with the party of corruption in Castile and León, the Comfort Letter cases, Wind Valladolid, Solar Trama, among others? Such corruption is acceptable, such corruption is not condemnable, such corruption must not be pursued, such corruption can be supported and formed with it. Did you really want to pass a motion to condemn just a few cases of corruption? Do you really just want to condemn the bad practices of the independence parties? Our parliamentary group has tabled a number of points to this motion, so that this Parliament will try today to adopt a motion that comes in the line of condemnation and fights against this scourge, wherever it comes from, whoever does it. That is why we have tabled several proposals for amendments and additions, such as the creation of a unit against corruption, economic crime and tax fraud, a unit of the Mossos d'Esquadra, or strengthening the independence, transparency and human and logistical means of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia, feeling very much that they did not want to accept all of our'smenas', but thanking the good will and talent of Mr Dimas Gragera to accept almost all of them, despite not having done so in all, that he had completed this motion very much. Finally, we announce that we will abstain on the points where you have done a rather perverse writing, which do not go in the direction of either judging, condemning, or persecuting the things that are being done wrong, but rather trying to pull out some media headline, trying to make believe that you are the regenerators and censors of the homeland. And it is a shame, because we have given a legal battle to change the rules and for bad politics to eradicate corrupt practices, and it cannot be that you play the game of a regenerating discourse, putting the magnifying glass against some Catalan parties, and at the same time being whitewashing and negotiating corrupt party governments. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.268.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to fix his position, has the first word, the deputy Jordi Terrades, of the PSC Group and Units to advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.269.0	Thank you, President. Counselor..., deputy gragera, in some of the proposals that will make us give him support, and in others not, and now I will explain to him the reasons for each of..., of our positioning. We will support everything that refers to aspects of corruption, even those that are being investigated, that there is still no form of judicial sentence. We all know that the judgment of the Palau / Millet / Convergence case, dictated by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, has been clear and strong, because it showed that this triangle Millet, company– Railway, in this case –, Democratic Convergence produced an irregular financing of Convergence. We also know that there are pending appeals before the Supreme Court. And therefore, we believe, and give support to this point, that we must respect the times and the judicial proceedings and that, in any case, we must also know all the pleas – you know perfectly well – that the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, in its interlocutory, issued an embargo resolution to some of its Convergence decisions, for, in the event that this sentence is confirmed for the Supreme, to bail out part of this party – that the first sentence, therefore, says that it is taking advantage of, of public awards – property damage. In this Parliament, we have also failed to deal with irregular practices in the hiring of child care centres, which depend on the advice of the Social Affairs and Family Council – we have not talked about this at other times. We'll also give you support at this point. We will also gather the need for the Generality to be individuals in the 3_per_cent case, which is currently under judicial investigation at the National Court, basically to defend public interests in another case that clearly points to one of the political organisations – or its successors – that support the Government and that we are still waiting for them to make self-criticism. We will not support them, however, in the proposal for the immediate resignation of public authorities for the fact that they are accused or investigated, because here you are sweeping possible corruptions with other situations of more political character, among other things, because you are also addicted to corruption of words, if I may express it, huh? , you turn positions and words to the end, and it's some language corruption as well. That's why I'm saying I'm not convinced. And we believe that this resignation from public office for the fact that we are accused or investigated, this automatism... we don't just agree. Why apply the principle of presumption of innocence? If it is produced, you are also questioning the right to defend these public functions. We believe that the resignation list should be – we have discussed it again in this Parliament, also in committees, in the study commissions that have been created – at the opening of the oral hearing. Nor will we give you support at the end of the day, it seems to me that it is from your young man, because you, who are present, day yes, day also, as a constitutionalist party, that defend the text of the Constitution to the maximum, at this point, eh? – I'm referring and I'm talking about pardons – what you're asking about is the same Constitution. You are denying the use of indult as a prerogative of the Government of Spain – Article 62.1 of the Spanish Constitution and Article 130 of the Criminal Code. So, listen, if we come here, too, day, day, day, to defend constitutional principles, what they have to do is apply this same measure, right? , and do not bring here to vote an issue that conflicts directly with the Constitution and with the prerogative of the Government of Spain to apply this measure contemplated in the same Spanish Constitution and in the Criminal Code. Therefore, in everything that refers to the themes of pursuing corruption we will support; in everything that you have to see with other questions, that I think you have a lot to see with this corruption of language and with other political themes that I believe all of us are aware of, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.270.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Maria Sirvent, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.271.0	Look, you guys are making an equation between independence and corruption. Several concepts have been blocked and, including, they have named the case against Mrs. Borràs, who has been investigated without a single clues..., and by another gang, they have also named the investigation or entry to the councils; I don't know what you have to see with corruption. We were the first to report corruption. Together with the CGT, we brought the case of Ricardo Calvo to the Anti-Fraud Office about the contracts he made as Director General of DGAIA. Also, for another band, we, like CUP, have appeared to the cause of 3_per_cent. We haven't seen City compare in this cause. For another band and, respect the accusation in the cause of the relief of Catalonia Caixa, the CUP also appeared there and we didn't see them appear to you, not even condemning these actions. For another band, we have also been asking the government for a long time that it is individuals as a particular accusation in various proceedings and, therefore, we will vote in favour of this point. Or we have also presided over two commissions, one on tax fraud and another on the fight against corruption. The alarm law has already been done and we've been working on it for a long time. It seems that the only one they want with this young man is to make this perfect equation between independence and corruption, which is not certain. We have been the first to fight corruption in an absolutely intense way. With regard to pardons, yes, the UPC has always been against granting pardons to those persons who had committed corruption offences, even though this is the Constitution. We are glad that you also want to cross the legal limits that the Constitution establishes, with the aim that the corrupt will not be pardoned.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.272.0	Thank you, sir. Next is the turn of the deputy Esperança García, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.273.0	Thank you, President. Well, a few months ago he presented, here in Parliament, the memoir of the barometer of opinion on corruption that has been produced since the Anti-Fraud Office and one of the most worrying things is that there were more than 80_percent of the population who thought corruption was very common in Catalonia, political corruption. And, even so, that the youngest among the divided and twenty-nine years gave practically by fact and had more tolerance than to the politics there was corruption. I think we've got a line in front of us, and it's turning this mental connection off, making a disconnection process. [[the speaker laughs]] But the relative disconnection that young people think that the service of politics has nothing to do with personal wealth or corruption. The young lady who presents City I think has contents that are very positive in this sense, those who make the control mechanisms better and that, therefore, there is more control and more possibility to fight against those who make politics, therefore, a personal benefit. But there are other presumptions that we cannot gather and are presumptions of guilt, that is to say, to assume that an investigated person is necessarily guilty before he is tried in a contradictory trial, with evidence, with judicial guarantees. And, therefore, extend this way of blaming certain political parties that have been burdened with government tasks, so that they are complicit in corruption to serve an instrument in its abyss, which is totally constitutional, which is the indult and which, certainly, see if they know that it has changed and cannot be applied to those cases of corruption and of convictions for corruption of political charges and, therefore, we cannot give recollection. The rest, yes; they have all our recollection.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.274.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it's the turn of Congresswoman Marta Vilalta, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.275.0	Good afternoon. MPs, MPs, we are ahead of the typical Ciutadans motion that, regardless of the subject, we are already used to, misrepresenting language, explaining a reality with a content that sweeps everything, in short, a poti-poti without rigour, with errors, more than, flagrantes de plantajement, in this case, in this subject, on corruption. And, in fact, it would seem that they were very lost, in this corruption, but in the background, what we see is that they go with bad faith and this is still sadder and still more irresponsible, because, quite simply, what they do, with these reasons that we are used to, is to look for the easy holder, not to do politics, but, therefore, to try to generate the media impacts that you most agree with. And in this case, in this case that we are dealing with, with this young man, it is still sadder, because we are talking about fighting corruption and, therefore, an issue linked to ethics, political ethics, public ethics and also integrity and, therefore, it is still more irresponsible and yet it is sadder. And, in fact, the present, all responsible for the citizenship of our country, Members and Members, we should have a lot of internality at the time of doing and at the time of exercising our responsibilities as public officials that we are. But you don't, you don't, they don't care about that. They come here, they make their hawk, they turn on the fan, they take it all for the big broc – today, without posters, that, yes, it pleases – and tomorrow it will be something else. All they had to do was talk about chiringuitos or talk about thugs. But, in any case, they have talked about 'privileges', 'policy of contempt' and they are going to sweep it all up again. You, in fact, who are, Citizens, those who defend the separation of powers, here, sweep it all and ask the government for things that can only do justice. Or they miss the truth, for example, when they talk about outbursts and privileges and start with a great falsehood, which is that the other parts of the government don't have outbursts. Do you know who's out there? The vast majority of the outlaws of the Spanish State are not political, they are courts, they are prosecutors, they are members of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Constitutional Court, etc. Therefore, we speak of outcrops, yes, but we speak with rigour and responsibility and without a criminalizing language. You're talking, more than anything else, about bad practice, in this case, in juvenile centers. So, let's get to the bottom of it, and we've explained that a lot of times, the DGAIA regularly undergoes control and audit mechanisms and, when it has been necessary, has been corrected, because it's obvious that they have to be corrected when there are mistakes or decisions have to be reviewed, but what can't be done is criminalizing public entities or a concrete sector without looking at them. Again, another lack of rigour. They must also know that the Prison Servants of Catalonia are independent and that, therefore, they apply the law and regulation on the basis of objective criteria, technical criteria and, therefore, do not use the Prison Servants, technical questions penitentiaries to attack the Government, do not do so any more because they make the ridiculous. And, plus, it's a little strict, again, and irresponsible. And it would also be good to make it clear that the issue of external action, which they use again, is lied and, again, misrepresent what they think is appropriate. At the moment, the report, therefore, speaks neither of fraud nor of practical ills nor of deviations of public funds, what happens is that, here, the one who knows them hard, the one whose neck is that we do external action and, therefore, they also want to pursue it. And finally, because I made it clear to them, the reparations of the economic damage that affect some feelings, that arise names in the motion, some are being dealt with through the courts and the Generality, when it is to be personated in those causes that you think are to be personated, already does. So, that's already done. In any case, we are not surprised so much by the position of the Ciutadans Group as by some of the views of the group of the commons, which, frankly, have surprised us, because, in some way, we accept a statement that the concessions of privileges to persons convicted of any kind of crime, literally, "by mere association with political leaders, economics or other influential spaces, and here we have the defence of the trade unionists, of people who have defended the rights to the road, who have gone to demonstration, etcetera, that, many times, have seen how, unjustly, they have been persecuted? What's left of this defense? We don't understand this dream. And let's go to another point, textually, where they ask that any politically immediately imputed departures be made. And here what we are told is not only that popular sovereignty has not felt, but that, if a judge goes for someone, he has to turn it away from political life. In other words, we are told that neither Carles Puigdemont, Toni Comín nor Oriol Junqueras have the right to be MEPs or that Jordi Sánchez, Jordi Turull and Josep Rull have no right to be MEPs, which is a shame that Raül Romeva is a senator. Is that what you're saying? - Is that what you're saying? Or the Lower Pain or the Forcadell Carme, who wouldn't have had the right to be Members of this chamber or the company here? So, no, we don't go through here, and that's why, in this case, we set ourselves up perfectly. One day they give them the support, but here we see how they now make a crime scene criminalizing them. In any case, the government does a lot of things, and the Councillor explained it the other day, and today we will reiterate it: a national strategy against corruption, with a lot of measures and we are not proud of it, just as we are proud to be of a party, of the Republican Left of Catalonia, which, with eighty-eight years of history, has no case of corruption, not as you cannot say the same. Therefore, we shall vote against this motion. We will abstain and vote for another point, but in any case, precisely because we are in favour of fighting corruption, we will vote against a policy of 'posture', as this is the case. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.276.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, has the word the deputy Aurora Madaula, of the Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.277.0	Well, thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, members of the Government, honourable public, there has been corruption. Corruption has been one of the features of the 78th Regime, virtually all political parties, among many other things, because there was no way of legislation or control that could put all this on hold. Cases like Filesa, Andratx, Adicsa, Banca Catalana, Bankia, Barcenas, Caja Navarra, Gürtel, Innova, Malaia, Pretòria, Rumasa, the case Palau, the Noos – well, the Noos is not political party, it is of an institution, of the monarchy, which is also corrupt–, etcetera. As I say, corruption forms part of the 78's regime, and for that reason, we also want some of us to deal with this regime, to end it, and for that reason, we clearly and firmly condemn corruption and defend zero tolerance against it. Fortunately, I understand that positive steps have been taken to address this problem, such as creating the Anti-Fraud Office or transparency laws. And in this very Parliament, the last legislature, a series of concrete measures were established, extremities of the Commission of Study of the Fight against Corruption for Democratic Regeneration, the Cemcord, which focused, basically, on preventing corruption to the public administration, to the public contract, to subsidies, in particular to the financing of political parties, to their foundations, which are linked, etc. Nor can it be ignored that, in June, it is not just one month ago, the Government agreed to develop a strategy for fighting corruption, which is coordinated by the Secretary of Transparency and Government Obert, and which will focus on the areas of public procurement, taxation, subsidies, public functions and directions, incompatibilities, and which also includes the protection of whistleblowers, laws that are already under way in Parliament and are about to appoint the candidates; point 2, which we will vote in favour. So, if you're doing a job and you're working to reverse corrupt practices... and that's why we don't understand how this young man ignores this job in the points they're trying to validate. For example, for what it does to the disgraceful Palau case, you insist the Government, in point 1.1, that it acts with due diligence and transparency, while undertaking legal actions, but it is that already being done, the Government of Catalonia is part of the prosecution, it is part of the lawsuit, it has already recovered 96.88_percent of the amount claimed and it has made a lawsuit against Mr Fèlix Millet and Mr Montull for more than 4_million euros. Or, for another band, in the same way, we cannot approve the 1.10 point, on the creation of a unit against corruption that comes from the Squad Mosses, when these functions are already carried out for the Criminal Investigation Division of the Squad Mosses; they are already being done. But you, as always, sweep it all away and want to make it go away, because, when you refer to taking necessary measures to ensure that public charges cease in the event of a charge, you do not refer to corruption, but to the general cause against independence, as we have seen this very week; unfortunately, investigations without evidence of crime are initiated only to investigate "a well-known independenceist, an independent autonomous deputy. That's what a judge starts. Because, in effect, corruption, unfortunately, is not just in the political class, but, as we see, we suffer from a corrupt, politicized justice system, tendencies, and more prone to dictatorships than no democracies. For this reason... [[applause]] , for this reason we cannot vote in favour of the points of the motion which intend to contribute to the general cause against independence, in a veiled and amber way, but we cannot contribute to them, in these points, and vote in favour. In the same way, we are surprised, at the last point, that his party, which is fighting against the release of political prisoners to Venezuela, and signs communiqués for such that Spain is pressing to release political prisoners to Venezuela as soon as possible, do, intent, in a barroera way, in point 3 of this young man, that we vote against the indult to the political class. Let us make it clear: we are totally in favour of corrupt policies remaining in prison – that corrupt policies still remain in prison – which you, Lords of Ciutadans, cannot do, is to sweep pears with apples: not to pardon corrupt policies and not to pardon political prisoners. The only option is the conviction of criminals, for the corrupt, of the party that follows, and absolutation and release of innocent prisoners. So, things, by their name. Released political prisoners and exiles. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.278.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the deputy Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.279.0	Briefly, on the amendments. There was only one group that has presented, the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. We accept Amendment No 1, Amendment No 2, Amendment No 4 and Amendment No 6, and we make a compromise with Amendment No 7. You told us that we have come to talk about the corruption cases of the Government of the Generalitat. Well, man, I think that's what it's about in this institution; not like you, who's come to talk about cases of corruption from other parties or from other governments that aren't represented here. You could at least have devoted a few minutes to talking about the corruption of this government. The Socialist Party of Catalonia, you seemed the defense attorney of Junts per Cat. You have come here, and you have just told us that you are not going to vote for the points of the pardons and the one calling for the immediate resignation of those accused of corruption, who do not want to be beaten up, as they said before. What we are asking is for the charges, the high charges charged and the deputies charged with corruption to go home. And, I repeat, we ask only what we demand for our own elected office. Anyway, you were telling us to be careful because there was some issue that conflicted with the Constitution. Do you know what conflicts with the Constitution? The pact that you have signed in the Barcelona Diputation with Junts per Cat; that will indeed conflict with the Constitution. You'll tell us. We were told by the representative of the Republican Left that there were some points in bad faith in our motion. Do you know what bad faith is? To say that in their party they have no cases of corruption when Ricardo Calvo was at the head of the DGAIA and involved in many of those recruitments; cover up 3_per_cent or help get the corrupt out of jail. That's bad faith. And Mrs. Madaula. The truth is, it came with a pretty low profile, I think I had a lot of things to shut up about. But there are things that don't fail, like the attack on Spain. Look, when..., the case of Banca Catalana, you said... – an attack on Catalonia, I'm sorry – you said « it's an attack on Catalonia ; when the UDEF was investigating Jordi Pujol, you said « it's an attack on Catalonia, and now that you're investigating you, you also say « it's an attack on Catalonia. It is neither an attack on Catalonia nor you are Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.280.0	Congressman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] We're calling it a vote. Yes, Mr. Terrades, say'm. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.281.0	To ask for a separate vote, and for contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.282.0	Say 'press the separate vote, and then, thirty_seconds for the contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.283.0	Yeah. They ask for a separate vote on points 1.5, 1.7 and 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.284.0	That you can vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.285.0	Yeah. For us, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.286.0	Yeah, okay. Contradictions, thirty-seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.287.0	Mr. Gragera, we're not asking for the presumption of innocence as you did this late in your intervention. And respect the pact to the Barcelona Parliament with Juntes for Catalonia or to the Sant Cugat Assembly or to Figueres with Esquerra Republicana and the CUP, absolutely clear and clear, not as you did to agree with Vox with nocturnal and treachery. [[You're saying, "Very good. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.288.0	Mr. Solé, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.289.0	Yes, President. To ask for a separate vote on points 1.11 and 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.290.0	What can they vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.291.0	No, separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.292.0	Don't you? All right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Lady Sirvent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.293.0	Yes; President, thank you. To ask for a separate vote on '1.7, 1.9, 1.10, which can be voted jointly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.294.0	You said 1.7, 1.9, and 1.10, huh? All right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Segovia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.295.0	And separate vote of 1.6, 1.9, and 3, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.296.0	1.6, 1.9 and 3, uh, did you say? Yes, ma'am Segovia? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right. Mrs. Garcia, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.297.0	So, look, president, I don't know if he's been asked to vote separately from '1.10, because we're not in jail anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.298.0	1.10? Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.299.0	Yeah? Separated?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.300.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.301.0	Separated, because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.302.0	Together with 1.7. Isn't he okay with them?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.303.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.304.0	So we'll do it separately, too. All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.305.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-11-3502.306.0	All right. We vote, therefore, on point 1.5. Let's start with 1.5 and 3, which can be voted together, huh? We've been asked for 1.5 and 3. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Okay. So, 1.5 i 3. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Separately? So, 1.5. The vote on '1.5 begins. The 1.5_point was rejected by 47 votes in favour, 83 against and no abstentions. We now vote on 1.6 – 1.6. The vote begins. 1.6_has been rejected by 56 votes to 69, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on 1.7 – 1.7. The vote begins. The 1.7_has been rejected by 43 votes in favour, 83 against and 4 abstentions. We now vote on 1.9 – 1.9. The vote begins. 1.9_has been rejected by 56 votes in favour, 65 against, 8 abstentions and one Member present who has not voted. We now vote on 1.10 – 1.10. The vote begins. The 1.10_has been rejected by 64 votes in favour, 66 against and no abstentions. We're voting 1.11. The vote begins. Point 1.11 was approved by 68 votes to 62 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved unanimously, 130 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 43 votes to 78, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 68 votes to 62, with no abstentions. There are no more points of this young man... no more points of the order of the day. Therefore, the session rises. Thank you very much.
