ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Ask the Government about the guarantee of public order and citizen security]] [[310-00270/12]] The second point of the order of the day are the questions with oral answer to the Government. The first question is about the guarantee of public order and citizen security. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.2.0	Thank you, President. Last December 17th, on the SER's "Lander" programme, Mr Buch said: "We all have suspicions of who is behind Tsunami Democrátic. Could you tell us where your suspicions are headed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.3.0	To answer the question you have the word the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.4.0	Yes, good morning, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning to all of you. Obviously, when I was talking about suspicions, they're suspicions that we can have all the folds, right? , just as you surely also have suspicions of who mismanaged the public accounts of the Spanish State or the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.5.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.6.0	Well, you're a matter counselor and you have some responsibility for the things you say. And indeed on the 17th day, in the program The Languero, of the SER, he said: "We all have suspicions of who is behind Tsunami. Therefore, you should act, because we are faced with an anonymous group of directly blackmailing practices and a secretism of dyes – I am sorry to say this – almost mafia, and in that sense article 22 of the Spanish Constitution is conclusive, regulates the right of assembly and says: "Secret associations and those of a paramilitary nature are prohibited. In this case, Tsunami would fit perfectly into the first of the categories, because it is not only not registered, but acts directly in hiding. But it is also that its objectives are extraordinarily perverse: to destroy our international prestige through an event of global impact, such as a Barça-Madrid, or to destroy directly the Barcelona brand, which is one of the biggest assets we have in Catalonia in that international projection. You can't stay waiting on the stage to see what's going on. You have the opportunity to demonstrate that there is at least one, a member of the government, who believes that ensuring order and security is a priority of any democratic government. Look, I must point out to you that you have already been excommunicated by the most radicalized separatism. You are already, for them, the greatest botifler in the kingdom. And I must also point out to you that, however much you do, it will be impossible for you to reconcile yourself with them. And at this point I'm not going to ask you to change your ideology, you have every right in the world to have the ideology you want, but I can ask you to do your job right. Look, if he does, if he does his job right, time will treat him with justice, regardless of his ideology; but if he doesn't, he will remain a botifler for the hyperventilated, but in return he will be incompetent for the rest, which is what is happening to him now. Therefore, you have to choose: either do your job well or continue to be a hostage of Tsunami, unable to guarantee order and security, which are the competences you have assigned and which are your responsibility, however much you now, in the end, dedicate yourself to refuting the, as you did at the beginning of the question I asked you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.7.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.8.0	Thank you, President. Actually, I could expect a lot of things, huh? But that the spokesman of the People's Party to the Parliament of Catalonia told me to "botifler to me, I would never have expected it; indeed I didn't... [[the Councillor riu]] It never occurred to me that this would ever happen to me. At all events, I believe that you – and you have shown – have been endowed with very good gifts, have you not? I think the singer here has explained... – and even everything about reciting – I think he's done very well here too – but from memory they haven't just given it to you, have they? That's one thing: you, who have taken months to demand that the Law of National Security be applied, that you take the competence of public security to the Government of Catalonia..., is now demanding that I take over all at the time of applying the public security of this country as the Councillor of the Interior. So, I'm saying, you have the do of selective memory, you remember what you believe and what you want and what you don't want. Plus, you said textually that a counselor who didn't defend a police body had to resign. So you've been pulling months and months criticizing a police thing like the Squad Mosos, which, I repeat, is the second most valued institution in this country. So, if I had to resign, you should plant what you have to do. And I guarantee you one thing – one thing – because, as you will understand, of police investigations I don't know who has to give the results, or less in Parliament, but I guarantee you one thing: that of all suspicions that a server can have, of all, I am convinced – convinced – that giving you Tsunami is not there. Thank you very much. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.9.0	The next question is about the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation. [[Ask the Government about the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[310-00275/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.10.0	Yes; good morning, Mrs. Budo. A few weeks ago, Mr. Torra inaugurated in L'Hospitalet a metro station, a metro stop, as you will know. I ask you: do you think it would be normal for Telemadrid or Canal Sur to echo the news and to do so with a headline such as « Torra inaugurates a metro stop, as did Franco?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.11.0	To answer the question you have the word the Presidency Counsellor, Mrs. Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.12.0	Well, good morning, President. I'll tell you, Mr. President, I don't know how they would report communication media from other places. What I can tell you is that the Catalan communication media report with radicality of the truth, report with a professionalism out of doubt. [[applause and voice of the background]] ... – yes, yes, we will then enter the answer, if you will – inform truthfully of the truth, inform professionally and with complete rigour. So, I don't know how they would inform the other media, I know how they inform TV3. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.13.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.14.0	Wow, I was asking you for your opinion, but it's clear you haven't just found the key to give an answer. Because what I just told you is exactly what TV3 did four days ago, with an initiative by the Andalusian government that consists precisely in rewarding Andalusian families, but families in general. The Andalusian executive is precisely what he wants – and I think it's important that the nuance is – to reward families, all families. In fact, the awards consist of various categories, including some such as: family and diversity, and family and inclusion. But, of course, among the categories was also that of large family, and TV3 could not miss the opportunity to erase from a pen the other six categories and re-exhibit its formidable ability to manipulate and hispanophobia, linking a perfectly democratic autonomous government with the Franco regime, which they do all the time. In the last few weeks, however, we have seen on TV3 a former president of Esquerra Republicana, Joan Puigcercós, saying that "Spain endures a hundred deaths in Catalonia, because these people have no complexes, and the writer Jordi Cabré, former member, former high office of their governments, Mas and Puigdemont, and friend also of Mrs Laura Borràs, saying that "it is not the same to say "democracy" in Spanish that "democracy" in Catalan. It is an example, a clear manifestation of supremacism and hispanophobia in a pure state. And all this under the ardent gaze of TV3 presenters, the director of TV3, who acts in practice as a propaganda counselor for the public media, and, of course, for his government, presided over by an individual, by a subject capable of saying things, nonsense, disagreements so serious, so absolutely [[remorse of the voice]] unacceptable as Mr Cabré or Mr Puigcercós have said. In any case, Mrs. Budó [[the remorse of the voice persists]] The Catalans deserve...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.15.0	Quiet! [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Silence, hope... Mr. Batet, calm... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Mr. Batet, they're in peace. The Member will finish and then the Presidency will intervene; but calmness. Ahabi, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.16.0	But time, Mr. President, time... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, it stopped two seconds later.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.17.0	Please continue, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.18.0	Okay. I insist, what is said to TV3 is nothing more than the transsumptuous of what the Government says or what the President of the Government says about the rest of the Spanish, about the Andalusians and, ultimately, about living together in Catalonia and about the Catalan constitutionalists. Mrs. Budó, the Catalans deserve public media that do not lie, that do not manipulate and distort reality and, above all, that stop insulting the Catalan constitutionalists and teaching hatred to Spain. Thank you. [[You're saying, "Very good! The applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.19.0	I believe, indeed, that in his intervention he has made some disregard for the President of the Generality. You spoke of "individual, subject... you will agree with me that it is not all, here, with what is to be addressed institutionally to the President of the Generality. In any case, I ask you to rectify, I invite you to rectify and, if not, I will have to call you to order for proper intervention, Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.20.0	Mr President, I will do so by quoting the philosopher José Bergamín: "If they had objected to me, it would be objective, but they made me subject. Mr. Torra is as subject as I am; he is individual, as individual as I am. Therefore, there is nothing disqualifying in calling Mr Torra "individual, nothing disqualifying" [[applause]] in calling Mr. Torra « subject... And above all, excuse me, again I tell you, because of your tendency to arbitrariness in these kinds of acts, it's nothing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.21.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.22.0	No, it's just, really...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.23.0	...that's it, I gave him an opportunity, now..., that's it – that's it – listen to me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.24.0	Obviously, I am explaining the reasons why I say it to Mr. Torra "individual, as I would say to any other Members of this House. It's an individual and a subject; nothing more. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.25.0	Member, despite the intervention, we say that it was obviously well studied, we say [[I'll give you the applause.]] He knows perfectly well that this is not the time to address a Member or a Member, an Institutional Member. In any case, I have warned and demand that in the proper interventions [[Funnel veils]] ... – if you'll listen to me, please... –, ask that in the proper interventions you keep this mutual respect that we have to keep all folds and, in any case, you will have to call it to order once in a while. He'll advise when he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.26.0	Thank you, President. It seems to me of all intolerable this way of addressing the president and I had the guts to say it. Look, what I can tell you is that the Catalan public media work with all the rigour; and it can't say the same of other media. Yesterday, we saw in a state-wide media – public, too – with images barred for political purposes, criminals and intoxicators, against independence, making some codes of ethics: « Forty-nine journalists have died murdered – headlined the news – « 2019, and illustrated it with images of independent demonstrations in Catalonia. Look, our media – I'll tell you every week, because every week they're asking me about them – are leaders in quality, impartiality and credibility. And, as you know, from the government, we do not exercise any kind of control over the Catalan public media, about the professional media, or about their contents. They have the mechanisms to do it, and you yourself, as a Member of this Parliament, know that you have the mechanisms to do it. But I'll tell you another thing: this news that you're referring to, about the Andalusian Christmas Prize and what you say, like Franco and what you're saying, TV3, so I'll tell you that this wasn't just news on TV3. May the same vanguard say: « The Board rescues the prize to the numerous families of Franco. O deia El Plural : "The Board rescues Franco's awards to families with more children. O inclus l'ABC, lluny of any suspended: "Christmas prizes were given on the day of St.Joseph, and recalls the decree of February 22, 1941. Therefore, listen to me, Mr. Deputy, look, even though you seem to be not, the government does not allow and will not allow political censorship in our public communication media. Lords of Ciutadans, the consequences of your pacts with Vox will be yours to assume. They don't make us take over this Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.27.0	The next question is about public order. [[Ask the Government about public order]] [[310-00276/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.28.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. You know that today the classic is played and that the self-named Tsunami Democrátic has called a siege to Camp Nou to hinder the normal development of Barça-Madrid. Has this Tsunami requested in time and form authorization to surround Camp Nou or at least communicated to the Department of the Interior the call for concentrations around Camp Nou in order to surround it this very afternoon and prevent the normal development of the « classic? Counselor, do you know who or who is responsible for this undemocratic group, whose objectives – like those of other separatists in the separatist sphere – are systematically violating the fundamental rights of the majority of the citizens of Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.29.0	To answer the word, the Inner Counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.30.0	Thank you, President. Member, I am not aware of any concentration communication around Camp del Barça, as unfortunately happens in many and many concentrations of any type, of its nature and ideology passing through this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.31.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.32.0	How is that possible, Counselor? How can the Department of the Interior, under its direct responsibility, allow a siege of Camp Nou that puts the normal development of a world-class sporting event at serious risk? How is Camp Nou permitted to be surrounded by a group that is not even registered in any register of entities? Is there impunity for separatism, which cuts down streets, roads, highways and highways? Have orders been made within your department not to cross charges and avoid sanctions for those who cut off communication channels, block access to stations and airports, or camp in the centre of our cities by cutting down streets and preventing people from moving freely? Because, look, counselor, we know for sure that the agents who intervene in the maintenance of public order do their job according to the protocols as best they can, but their complaints fall into a broken bag within their department, which must impose the corresponding sanctions according to legality. The Mosses do their job, but you don't. Is there impunity for Tsunami Democratic? Who is behind that subversive group? Is this Mr. Puigdemont? Because the websites that control the environment of the Waterloo leak use the same technologies and suppliers as those of that dark separatist entity. Who is Mr. Echish? How is it possible that I don't know? Is he a member of your government? I hope not. In any case, it is your responsibility to investigate and stop acting as if it were not with you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.33.0	To answer the word the counselor has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.34.0	Thank you, President. They reminded me that, in the concentration not communicated to Waterloo by Ciutadans, who climbed the gespa, I believe they also punished them; I believe they punished them [[applause]] Just like it's sanctioned here and it's all right with the law. And counting that on the part of this advisor and on the part of the direction of the department there is no instruction to fail to fulfill the law with anyone. And you have experience in reporting to me personally, you have experience, so listen, continue, report me if you think we're doing something that isn't, but you don't do this to come here to explain it, but then you don't act. Because, then, you're gonna be complicit in all this. Clearly, it is very easy here to explain a report because everyone believes it and you have the image of the tweet: "Look, look what I said, but then do not act. Now, I invite you to act, and from here on out, so if you believe in this justice, you can be calm. With regard to the concentrations, because you have long been criticizing the manifestations and the concentrations of the independenceists, and the damages that cause mobility and the problems that cause some and cause others; I suppose, I suppose, they must be the same problems that caused the demonstrations that the unionists celebrate when they make them in Via Laietana, which they did, when they made them at Plaça Sant Jaume, when they made them at Plaça Urquinaona, when they made them, for example, at Plaça Colon. I suppose they must cause the same mobility problems to citizens and citizens who also want to move there or include public transport. Therefore, you cannot judge or justify a type of concentration and manifestation depending on whether you are representing it there or defending it there. Why, what does it represent? , that unionist demonstrations do not cause mobility problems? They cause the same problems as the others. [[Widow's remorse.]] And respect the sanctions – respect the sanctions –, look, let's do one thing: a while ago there was a very important demonstration in Catalonia, he resorted to four hundred kilometers, he applied to thousands and thousands and thousands of people, thousands and thousands of people, they donated the thousands and thousands of Catalans to create the country from one end to the other. As there was a person who owes a very personal element like the bar, which is his doorman, I can ask him if any sanction fell on him. [[Rialles.]] Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.35.0	The next question is about promoting responsible consumption. [[Ask the Government about promoting responsible consumption]] [[310-00271/12]] And he does it, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Deputy Josep Maria Forné. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.36.0	Thank you, President. Conseller Chacón, we live in a global world and in constant evolution that impacts on the product models and the way to consume. The irruption with force of the new technologies has generated new forms of purchase and contracting that involve us challenges. We need to know consumers' rights and, of course, their rights, with the intention of promoting a more critical and reflective consumption and with the object that this becomes responsible. All these actions can promote them with special attention to specific consumer profiles, such as large people, infants and young people, and with intent to continue informing and training, advising and helping in the most effective way. We are and live days of a lot of consumption, in some cases even too much. It should promote actions to encourage this to remain sustainable, clean and committed, reduce waste volumes and make more efficient use of natural resources; avoid unnecessary embolcalls and opt for recyclable, reusable and respectful products. This one we think should now be the way forward. On the other hand, if we focus on aspects such as solidarity and compromise, we must take into account fair trade, an alternative model based on production, distribution and marketing of products taking into account ethical criteria. If we are betting on fair trade, we are working together on the sustainable development of the world's most disadvantaged economies. Thus, we cannot forget that we fight the gender stereotypes that we observe in a lot of advertising for the promotion and sale of products and services that encourage models that we reject energetically. It is important that consumers belong to what is coming through a sexist or little respectful advertising, mainly with the rights of women. The protection and defence of consumers is a complex object in a world like today; that is not why we should stop promoting it. Counselor, it's interesting to know what his vision is about the new patterns of consumption brackets and what his department is doing to guarantee the rights of the citizenry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.37.0	To answer, the word "Constellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, is written. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.38.0	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Congressman. From the government, from the department, from the Catalan Consumer Agency, we want to promote ethical conduct towards consumption, in such a way that it is reflexive, sustainable, solidarity and compromise. And speaking of sustainability, here I also attach myself to the campaign, Counselor Jordan, that do not touch us who do not have to touch us. It is necessary to know, therefore, the origin of the products. We're also reducing energy costs here, and we're also guaranteeing, huh? , the viability of many small and medium-sized enterprises within the territory. But in another order of themes, too – and you pointed it out – fight against gender inequality. Malauramente – malauramente –, advertising, and yesterday precisely in the Ple that we had in clau dona, therefore, advertising still uses stereotypes of genere for the promotion and sale of products or services. We understand that we need, therefore, a much more respectful pattern of consumption with people and around, and we as the administration need to guarantee these rights and old age so that we do not think about salvation, especially young people. All folded, we announce today also this first sanction, the sanction of the Catalan Agency of Consum, which imposed the first, of eighty-five thousand euros, to a company for the apologia of anorexia and bulimia to the Internet. It is the sanction to the company Automatic, with its own in Ireland, that it rented a block that incited the conduits..., promoting anorexia, was animated to the loss of weights, contained also worse messages for what it does to the good food. And it's that since we approved Decree 2/2019, therefore, in the matter of reform of the Consumer Code, we haven't stopped acting. In this sense, I think it is well and clear that the government, the Catalan Consumer Agency and the government have set up a standard framework, they act – we have more than forty-three complaints in this sense, more than twenty-three have already been deleted. And I believe that this sanction is an exhibition that we will not leave the slightest room for all those contents, blocks, advertisements that promote sexist attitudes or against public salvation. Not even the slightest margin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the waste recycling plant incident in Montornès del Vallès]] [[310-00272/12]] The next question is about the incident of the waste recycling plant in Montornès del Vallès. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Antoni Morral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.40.0	Counsellor Calvet, good morning. The last dime we took with a large fire to the Ditecsa waste treatment plant in Montornès del Vallès. The imposing column of adventurous smoke was an exceptional fire. As you know, the materials that are cremated were special: solvents and highly flammable materials, which generated a toxic smoke. The people go..., three people were attached to the emergencies service, the factories around them had to stop their activity and dislodge 250 workers. Veils were confined to their homes. The prevention measures were designed and involved an important deployment of security and emergency services. The firefighters also suffocated the fire triggering an important deployment of resources, addressing the fire hazard and the vulnerability of the environment. We knew that the factory had had various inspections ordered by the Department of Lands and Sustainability, which has also been sanctioned several times for its poor management in the storage of residues. Even if it is not suitable for their department, it will be necessary to investigate the causes of this fire, because the consequences have been very important at environmental level. It will also be necessary to assess them accurately, because the river basin Besòs has been heavily affected by the flooding of water to stifle the fire that has been swept away with the liquid residues of the solvents of the treatment plant and that has caused the death of wildlife and the ecological plurality of the river. For years, the Consorci de la Conca del Riu Besòs, the assemblies, the same department, entities and civil society and volunteers have invested a lot of effort and resources to convert what was once a heavily contaminated river into a river basin with an acceptable ecological quality. For some time we have seen how little they have gone to recover their ecological life with investments in scrubbers, the introduction of shoreline vegetation, native fauna and a periodic and accurate follow-up of the quality of water and the conjunction of river life. This has all been seen in danger in just one day. Counselor, you need to go into research and environmental diagnostics. We need to know what really happened and where we are. What is the capture of his government and his department over the fire at the Montornès du Vallès plant? What actions are taking place and have you planned to take place in your department? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.42.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members..., Mr. Deputy, many thanks for the question, it is very timely. In fact, we have another respect for this very subject. I would like to begin this answer by saying that I have the perception that we have not dealt with a lot and collectively of what this incident means. I read a long time ago – I don't remember the place or the author – that politics is knowing that someone is worried about you. It's an imperfect phrase, sure, because it's not just that someone is worried, but that you can also participate in what it means, so the management of what it is collectible, but what it gives deep, right? , to this collective management of everything that refers to the concerns and the needs of people, people, families, the economy. And, indeed, I would say that in this subject, as in so many others, this collective transcendence has been sabuade to treat it well. It is wise to treat it well both in the previous management, as in the emergency, as in the post-accident management. In advance, what do I mean? You said: we have built a complex system of, for example, debuggers, which have allowed us to recover the ecological function of the river. And we managed them correctly at the length of these years, not only from the ACA – before the Junta de Residus, now the ACA –, also in consortium with the Consorci del Besòs, precisely – in fact, the Besòs-Tordera –, or we also managed to build a complex system of management of what are the residues, precisely, of the perilous, the non-perilous, in this case, through the Agency of Residus of Catalonia. The fruit of this management, too, of the management of the Emergency, which was very effective... – I want to give thanks to the services of Bombers and also to the people of the SEM; also, obviously, to the Assembly of Montornès; to the delegate of the Government, who was present during the fire all the time – that, more than that attention to the Emergency, which they also declared from the ACA and which we intervened directly in the river the next day, now it is up to us to make the post management, which is very important, that we have to do among all, with this unity of action, and that it will involve us some time, because here we actually seek to recover the ecological function of the river, that we persist in the sense of nature, and that we do not, through nature? , from the affectation, and, above all, the continued management will make us recover this ecological function from the river very quickly. And in any case, we go to the bottom to define responsibilities and be demanding with the causes of this affect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.43.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the Olvan polygon (Berguedà)]] [[310-00273/12]] The next question is about Olvan's polygon, in Bergedà, and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Marta Moreta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.44.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. As you know, the region of Bergedah conforms to thirty-one municipalities that do not have properly urbanized, well-equipped industrial land. The year 2005, and from this fourteen years ago, it was agreed to push a large industrial polygon in the municipality of Olvan that you exercise as a regional polygon. Roca Rodona's regional polygon came from the hand of Incasòl with an agreement with the Olvan Assembly. The total cost of this policy was estimated at EUR 8.6 million, of which Incasòl invested only EUR 2.6 million a day. It created a consortium between Incasòl and the Olvan Assembly, but with the entry of the economic crisis, it paralyzed the polygon until today. At these times, the district council has agreed to enter the consortium to help the Olvan Assembly and thus be able to cope with the pending expenses with the objective that the first phase of this policy can enter into operation. Every two or three years the Government has asked for the continuity of the project because there has been some petition to be able to settle in the region. Every counselor promises to unscramble the theme, just like you did yourself. It seems that the current excuse is to formalize the modification of the consortium to give entry to the district council. Counselor, I'd like you to explain to us what the completion schedule for the first phase is so that you can enter the district service once the change in the consortium has been made.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.45.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.46.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... Mrs. MP, you know perfectly well... – I don't see it; here – you know perfectly well, therefore, the genes of Olvan's polygon, of Olvan's economic activity sector. It is an ambitious gene, that of having large, strategic economic sectors, which I donate not only to a concrete municipality, but to a whole territory, and it is a correct settlement, which I have collected as Director of Incasòl and now as Councillor. We have other similar ones, such as the d'Olvan, distributed for Catalan geography. What is happening, which, indeed, and you have said, we have had a profound economic crisis that paralyzed many of these projects. And then we decided to act in another way. We're not at a time when we can do planning, land purchase and development like other times, which means urban spending, and after we're sure after the table waiting for business to arrive. That's not it; that's it, now, that's not it anymore. We need to know how to act on demand, which means that we have to plan at once, that we also have to keep accounts at once to be able to act, and that concrete requests from companies..., if you tell the companies the time and the cost of the only they have enough room to plan their investments, which, in the end, is what we want, and then, yes, act. And this consortium – not just Incasòl, but it is a consortium – has gone through many, many vicissitudes; among others, it has put in danger the economic viability of the assembly – of the assembly – because it was both the margin or the debt generated by the consortium that put in danger the economic viability of the assembly. And that's what we're solving, rigorously and effectively. First, changing the percentage of participation of the government and the assembly; then, bringing in the district council. Now we will have to change the statutes, effectively, to give legal coverage to all of this, but after we act, we will act to finish a first phase, which will begin the coming year, which we will practically spend 1.8_million euros to have industrial land at once, the urbanization will be finished by mid-2021 and we will have the capacity to gather investments, boost the economy and generate occupation in Bergudà, which is what we all want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.47.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.48.0	I'm here. I'm tiny, but now you see me. That's right, maybe. We would be happy, Counselor, that your words do not get winded and that the Bergedah should not wait another time for a decade to dispose of industrial soil, because now it is an emergency. Berguedà deserves to be able to attract industrial activity to a region that loses people a year back. This policy should be the industrial lung in order to be able to precisely re-industrialize the region of Bergedà, which has to act as a link with the Bages and Osona. Counselor, your words have made it clear. Can it be compromised that, during 2020 or under the presuppositions of 2020, the Generalitat will have a necessary part to pull forward the policy so demanded for Bergedà? Thank you very much. And good Nadal – I take advantage – for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.49.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.50.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, yes, indeed, it is not so much a game in the presupposition, but what is the investment planning of the Incasòl through the consortium, eh? I repeat, we have changed the percentages of participation and the district council will also enter. We'll start work in the fourth quarter of 2020. I was wrong about one thing: the finalization of the urbanization...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.51.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.52.0	...of the first phase will be 2022.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.53.0	...time is running out. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the influence on the river Besòs of the fires produced by the firm Ditecsa Derpin, in Montornès del Vallès (Eastern Valley), on 11 September 2019]] [[310-00274/12]] The next question is about the influence on the river Besòs of the fires produced by the firm Ditecsa Derpin, in Montornès del Vallès, on 11 December 2019. The formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Forwarding, Mr Jordi Terrades. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.54.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I've seen the Congost River and the Kiss River of all colors, as a result of brutal contamination. I saw a river that was an open cell key chain. In fact, it was considered one of the most contaminated rivers in Europe. I saw a dead river. But I also saw that, with the effort of gatherings, of the Consortium of Beso, also of the governments of Catalonia, the river returned to life. Later this week, we have already talked, but we have seen the fragility of the natural environment, the fragility and vulnerability of the river. Mr. Counselor, the firm Ditecsa is included in Catalonia's integrated inspection plan and programme. According to the information we have, the year 2018 has been the subject of inspections. The conclusion is that it does not comply with the conditions of environmental authorization and the government sanctioned it. But 2019 still doesn't complete. We'd love to meet your parent if only with economic sanctions was enough, because what went down was very hard – very hard – but there could still have been a lot more. The correctness of the inspections were the right ones? We ask you this question and we ask you this question, counselor. And, in view of what has happened and considering that all of Catalonia's recycling companies of these products, of solvents, there are four, and all of them in the Besòs-Tordera area, will take steps to strengthen controls? The five? We are aware, from the Socialist Group and Forward Units, that all activity has associated risks. And precisely because of that, and in view of what has happened, we believe that it is time to strengthen debugging systems in industrial areas. Magnificent, the performance of the Bombers. Now, we think I need to review the implementation protocols and contingency plans. And, beyond the errors that may have occurred on the part of the Administration of the Generality and of the responsibilities for the failure of the regulations on the part of the company, that the investigation, which is already open, will determine, from our point of view it is time to return to work folded, with immediate action, to recover the river, with a follow-up of the quality of the water and above all with measures for the recovery of fauna and biodiversity in the low Besòs section.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.56.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. MPs, MPs, Mr. MPs, I take advantage to wish Nadal well, too, which I have not been able to do before. In any case, I would like to thank him for the whole of his question, because he shows what I have explained before, to the question of Mr Morral, that there has been a unit of action, a unit of action of many institutions in the treatment «pre, in the treatment of the emergency, and also now close to doing the same in the treatment after accident, and, therefore, the whole has been absolutely adequate. Miri, let's just say that this company is from Annex 1, not Seveso, which means that it has certain inspection conditions of what environmental authorization represents, and, like companies from other annexes, they have, so, environmental authorization rests every year, this is annual, huh? This, for what it does to environmental authorization, which, indeed, therefore, detected a series of non-heavy deficiencies, which did not assume the closure, which did not affect the environment. And so they communicated to all vectors; among others, to the Agency of Residues. The Agency of Residus has inspection per se, because this company has what it calls "manager code"; in fact, it has two: one to treat solvents and paint, and the other to treat non-hazardous residues, which it does is to value them and bring them to take up or treat. And it has been in the framework of these inspections of the Agency of Residus, respect to the code manager, does not respect the environmental authorization, that they have dictated two sanctions, one of 48,000_euros, one of deu_mil_euros; the first is, therefore, already satisfied, the other is accepted for the enterprise and has to be paid. But in any case, the inspection frequency of the Agency of Residus – Agency of Residus, eh? – as a managing code – we are not talking about environmental authorization – it is what is called ‘very high' – very high. It's what I gave him from the pre-management, the fem and fem collectively. We have a legislation that makes the Agency of Residus seek, therefore, the categorization of enterprises and, depending on its categorization, it has to dictate the frequency of inspections. Very high, three to four a year. And it's been in the wake of these inspections that these sanctions have been imposed. And now we'll have to go on; we'll have to go on, first, figuring out what happened and then demanding and coming to the end. I'm sure, among all of us, we will recover the ecological function of the river faster than on other occasions, because the system of debuggers, and the system of management of debuggers, and the fact that the affect was not an affect, say, of these permanent ones, will make us recover it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.57.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about waste incineration]] [[310-00279/12]] The next question is about residue incineration. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, Mr Marc Parés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.58.0	Yeah. Good morning, Counselor. In the past several fuel incineration projects derived from waste have been presented in Catalonia, in the case of the conversion project of the Cercs thermal power plant or the project of the Tracjusa company in June. The Residu Zero platform together with the Anti-Incineration Platforms of Cercs and June and many other entities have promoted a proposal for a moratorium on the processing of new incineration infrastructures or on the expansion of existing ones. Do you think the government is going to pull this mortuary forward?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.59.0	To answer the question you have the word the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.60.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... Mr. MP, the hierarchy of residue treatment is very clear; it is very clear and the Europe brand, and logically Catalonia, therefore, back this hierarchy of residue treatment. And I remind you that, in the first place, we have the prevention of the generation of residues; the preparation for reuse; the material valorization; other forms of valorization, which include energy valorization, and finally and ultimately the deposition in the mouthpiece, which we have a certain percentage, but that the same European directive marks that the year 2035 only arrives in the mouthpiece, at the mouthpiece, a 10_percent of the residues. And, therefore, we need to know how to manage this. And we need to be able to manage the way in which the Residus Agency manages the entire map of industrial- or non-hazardous waste management installations such as home automation. In this sense, there are various projects entered; one of which very recently, this project that you call Circles, which entered us past. We haven't evaluated the project's sufficiency yet, I mean, if it's a complete project. And it will be in the mark of this sufficiency assessment and in the mark of the normal path, which passes through all the vectors, which we will end up determining whether it is a project, so that it can be developed or not. In any case, what we want to do and what we need to do, because that's what the law tells us, is act not for intuitions, if I may, not for Twitter, but for Excels. And, therefore, the first thing we will do is evaluate the sufficiency of the projects that have entered us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.61.0	To ask again, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.62.0	Yes; thank you, counselor. We know the hierarchy, but we think it's not a question of hierarchy, but of past or future, and incineration is past and not future. Because he knows perfectly well that the incineration of residues, in addition to having harmful effects for health and the environment of the areas where it is produced, is also a highly productive activity of winter-effect gases. And we believe that it is not coherent to declare the climate emergency and open the door, as it has done, to us incineration projects, because it has become clear that it does not close the door. The Circle project only gathers the mayor and his promoters, who have already bought the facilities and who say they have spoken to you. The adhesions to the manifesto of the platform as well as the motion presented in various assemblies of this country show that the project does not have the support of the territory. And I want to highlight, for example, the position of the district councils of Berguedà, Bages, Solsonès, Moianès and Osona, or that of the Association Valls del Pedraforca and the Association of Farmhouses of Berguedà, among many other entities of veins, entrepreneurs or branches of the territory. Miri, counselor, central Catalonia cannot continue to feel the furrow of the metropolitan area of Barcelona. There is no sense of cremating the German waste produced in the metropolitan area and flooding the C-55 and the C-16 with hundreds of trucks carrying metropolitan waste. Nor is it acceptable for Osona to have the levels he has of tropospheric ozo because of the metropolitan contamination, not to talk about the environmental impacts of the mining at Bages or the lack of public investment and the infrastructure deficiencies of these regions. The future of central Catalonia, councillor, does not go away to aggravate the environmental damage of these regions. And what do you think you're doing with Tracjusa's project, which has provisional approval? The Garrigues, which is the region that produces the least residues of Catalonia... Have you felt, a project the viability of which depends on the combustion of residues that should come, again, from the metropolitan area of Barcelona? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.63.0	Thank you, Congressman. To do the second answer, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.64.0	Thank you very much. Congressman, you cleared up a lot of things at the end of your intervention, because you told me about investments... we were talking about the Circle project. And I want to correct one of the elements that you have served in your parliament: that incineration or energy recovery is the one that brings the most gases of winter effect. It's not true. The waste management activity that provides the most winter-effect gases is precisely the mouthpieces. And that's why the European Union in its hierarchy ended up saying that 2035 is only a 10_per_cent. And, therefore, we generate waste and we need to manage it. It's not true what he said. The activity that brings the most winter-effect gases is that of the mouthpieces. On the way, we'll manage. And we have a project in these moments from which we have to assess its sufficiency and take into account the opinion of the territory...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.65.0	Time's running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.66.0	...as it can't be otherwise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.67.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the institutional campaign "Ara, the player, Catalan products]] [[310-00277/12]] The next question is about the institutional campaign « Ara, the one that touches, Catalan products, formulated, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, for the deputy Irene Fornós. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.68.0	Thank you, President. Buying and consuming proximity products every time is more common. For many years he had been like this. He was eating what he could get around a living and, surely, this proximity still, including, was closer than what we are talking about now when we refer to the proximity products. It is worth highlighting the benefits that proximity products also bring to our salvation; a better quality of the product, since it significantly reduces the time spent between products, peaches, collected or processed, and their consumption. The channel is more direct and, therefore, there are fewer processes that can alter their properties. Now it's time to consume Catalan products. We also contribute to many more things, such as promoting trade and the local economy of our country. To do so, it also has an impact on the territorial balance and the survival of agricultural exploitations, ramaderes or the survival of the fishing world, consuming what we call the "fish of the pond, like the squids that the Josep Antoni Cruz, of Palamós, fish. And, in addition, because we believe that this is the policy that can be followed to achieve the challenge of food sovereignty, or to safeguard those agricultural areas of our country where they produce unique and exclusive products. On these days that we come forward, many of us can enjoy our feet, celebrations and family gatherings where eating will have an important role to play. And we are fortunate: these tables can fill them with a great variety of excellent and top quality products, well produced near our home, such as the Rápita lakes, the Agramunt towers, the Prat chicken or a D.O. view of our country. And all products for our lives, such as the Cristina Pedret, Ramadera de Móra d'Ebre, or the Gloria Joanals, page of Sant Antoni de Calonge, who these days we could know on television thanks to the campaign driven by the DARP. This type of consumption, a mes of consumption, a mes of consumption, a mes of consumption, a mies hem pogut conD. O. of our paat, it's proeionar. No to the metropolitans. Insponibility assumed to be more, it also favors our environment by reducing CO2 emissions, if we do not have to make long runs to get to our fridge or to our overflow. We have to bet, too, to consume the seasonal products, like Mandarins and Tarongs of the Lands of the Ebre, which are now very good. We must insist more on the citizenry, especially where he saw in the great cities and furthest from the rural world, where these products are mainly produced. We must continue to know this great variety of foods that Catalans produce in our country, because the great recipients, the main consumers of this great food that we have at home, we are and we must be ourselves. Counsel, how the Government appreciates the institutional campaign « Does Ara play Catalan products? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.69.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the Agriculture Advisor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordan. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.70.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. So the answer is satisfied; we are satisfied and satisfied. In fact, it is the first institutional campaign of these characteristics that does in the history of this department, and this makes us, of course, satisfied. An announcement that doesn't go unnoticed. In fact, it is a cry, or it wants to be a joyful, sensible and also simple, strict, in favor of our sector, of our pages, of our storehouse, of our fishing. But also to put in value, basically, the women and the men that make it possible, that make possible this production of proximity foods, these foods without, safe and quality. And the effort behind it, because that's not free; there's effort, there's determination of all these men and women who throw their arms to the earth and their bodies to the sea. In fact, let's also say that, in the end, the one who seeks this announcement is nothing more than to achieve, and make a lot of pedagogy, that arrives on the day that when a city or citizen of this country is about to taste a Girona wart, or is about to taste a presected from the plane of Lleida, or is about to taste a Blanes squid, or is about to taste some Ebro muscles, be aware that between him and that product there is, obviously, a pay and, obviously, a rower and obviously a fisher or a fisherman. And that's what he's looking for. And after all, there's a strategy, it's not a free one: a strategy of this department of the hand, too, of the sector. For example, the Català Consell de l'Alimentation, which we have spoken on more than one occasion also in its parliament, and which intends to derive, at the end of time, in the first pact of history, the first national pact of food policy of the country. Or, for example, there has also been the deployment of the rule of the Law of Agrarian Thickness, which I also approved in this Parliament. Or, for example, imagine 'the modernization of the irrigation infrastructure of this country, among many other things. This country has many reptes, many, and many revolutions, the majority to win. And it is obvious that the climate emergency, the new technologies and also the food will not win it or we will not win it if we are not well fed, and the way to win them and get well fed is, precisely, to consume household products, to help the country and also to help the economy. It's like... winning them all and consuming products from this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.71.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the assumptions of the Generalitat]] [[310-00278/12]] The next question is about the assumptions of the Generality. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.72.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, we learned that the Government and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can come to an agreement to promote a tax reform that aims to raise the generality's tax revenues, to achieve a fairer taxation, to boost the economy and to fight climate change. Before we enter to value the content of the agreement in input matter, from Esquerra we want to value the agreement in itself. It is an agreement, with everything that this entails, and we must congratulate ourselves because it is when we assume responsibilities that we are useful to the citizenry. In fact, societies advance when we are able to hear 'not to reach agreements. Coming into the specific measures, I would like to highlight above all two that we believe help to understand that taxes are not only a measure of recaptancy, but also allow political objectives to be achieved. And a political objective, for us, is, for example, to have a fairer and more progressive taxation. I mean, they pay more than they have. And even though I don't see it that way, having an annual income of more than €90,000 is a lot over the middle of this country. In fact, it is three times the average amount of Catalans and Catalans, which is 28,000 euros gross per year. [[I'll tell you what.]] Excuse me. Another concrete measure that exemplifies the tarann of this agreement is that single-parent families, in the form of inheritance taxes, pay half of the tax on the purchase of the usual housing, or that persons who earn an inheritance of more than 3_million euros– more than 3_million euros– pay more in this inheritance tax. We appreciate the agreed measures not only because we think of the economic capacity of the city, but also because they propose a follow-up of measures that want to fight against negative externalities in areas as diverse as health, the environment, tourism or the tenance of empty habitats. In short, we believe that we must congratulate ourselves because we have not only an agreement, but also a good agreement. Yes, we are aware that it is only a tax agreement, but that everything can be left on paper if a global agreement is not achieved also in the area of spending policies, which we hope will have a marked social character. Vice-President, will an agreement be reached in order to be able to approve effectively the assumptions for the coming year?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.73.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.74.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. I'll say yes, but it seems to me that there are more people in this room who should be able to answer this question. In any case, we have presented this agreement in the area of admissions, which, as the honourable Member rightly said, is a very good agreement that goes forward in the line of advancing towards a fairer, more progressive and greener taxation. When we talk about the entrances of the Government of Catalonia, however, we must always bear in mind that the margin that this Parliament and this Government has to arbitrate its own entry policy is delimited. It is delimited because we do not decide or receive the majority of taxes paid by consumers and workers and Catalan businesses. Therefore, any policy in the field of admissions..., and in this case we have advanced by power, also, to express part of the margin that we have at present in the field of taxation and taxation on the part of the Generality, must not oblivion the necessary claim that we must make, of the State, in order to end with the fiscal deficit, that affects our economy ; for, also, to demand institutional loyalty for all the decisions made by the State and that we end up paying the Generality of Catalonia, and also for the weakening of specific policies. Therefore, taking into account this, in the small margin we have in taxation matters, it has advanced. And he advanced, as he said before, with a clear view of fiscal progress. The measurement of the tax on the income of physical persons is a good example. From noranta_mil_euros the tax pressure increases: 1.58_percent of taxpayers. A 1.58_percent of the taxpayers that will allow, on their return, to lower the taxation of lower returns. In this case, we raise the minimum personal and familiar for those returns of less than twelve thousand euros. That's why fifty-thousand more tickets don't benefit two-hundred-thousand contributors with fewer tickets to the country. Therefore, let us make clear progress in this redistributive capacity. And now, if we've closed the first chapter, see the second chapter, which is the chapter of the expense. And I am convinced – I am convinced – that we will reach a good agreement. Obviously, you can't donate to lock until we get to the detail. Work to do, work to do, but this country needs assumptions. The government does not need them politically, only that they especially need the choices, the salvation, the security...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.75.0	Time's up. Thank you. Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the agreements for the investiture of the President of the Government of the State and the affluence in the demand for the exercise of the right of self-determination]] [[317-00161/12]] The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mr Carles Riera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.76.0	Good morning, President. Yesterday you received a call from Mr. Pedro Sánchez in which, according to the communication media, he committed himself to normalizing the relations between the Government of the State and the Generality in the Marks, which we know, strictly constitutionally and autonomously. The negotiations for Pedro Sánchez's investiture between PSOE and Esquerra Republicana do not include, as we know, the exercise of self-determination or amnesty or the fission of repression. It's worth saying that the correspondent negotiations with the United States can form governments, either. Neither does the repeal of labour reform or the law bite, or the challenge of repression and the monarchy. « Normality is now the magic word. Together for Catalonia he withdrew in the proposed Ple a motion that refers to self-determination, to the change of institutional benefits in Madrid. President, are we in front of a partisan and institutional lockdown by the democratic breakup that the people opened from below with the October 1 referendum? If you don't think so, who are the concrete and verifiable facts that indicate that your government is in the way of exercising self-determination, and not of returning to autonomy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.77.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.78.0	Yeah, good morning. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. The answer to the first question is no, absolutely. No, absolutely, because he knows perfectly well that just on the day the ruling came out the members of the government made some agreements and a public compromise that was based on three axes: exercise of the right to self-determination, of repression and amnesty, and rights. And this is the position of the government, and I, as the president of the government, never moved a thousand miles of this point. And then I'll answer to the second part.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.79.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.80.0	So look, President, perhaps in your government you are not very well coordinated, because Vice President Aragonès has just made it very clear that a priority is the best of self-financing. Let me know – let me know – this is a logical framework that is strictly autonomous, strictly autonomous. But, look, president, the year 2017 the CUP approved a presumption for the Generality to affirm the necessary governance to convene and realize the self-determination referendum of October 1. His Government is now in a hurry to settle a presupposition with the commons, in an interchant of favors that includes the Barcelona Assembly and the Government of the State, in order to secure institutional, constitutional and autonomous stability and increase their power shares. And at times, until now, we have observed how the gap between the popular response to feelings and the institutional response has been morally immoral and abysmal. And while the path is repression, repression and more repression. President, will you continue to feel, your government and the parties that support you, a break to continue advancing towards self-determination, amnesty and rights? Or will you do a few timid things that help to put institutions on the rise of mobilization and civil disobedience? Today we are with the strength of the people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.81.0	Congressman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.82.0	...with the Democratic Tsunami... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.83.0	Thank you. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.84.0	It is obvious that the conflict in Catalonia is not resolved with a new statute or with competition; it is obvious. The political conflict in Catalonia is a conflict of sovereignty, and so what we are discussing here is sovereignty, the right to decide on the Catalans' political future. This is the axis, the plot of our conflict, and therefore this is the compromise that not only the Government has, that we have signed all the deputies of this independent chamber, through different declarations: from the Sea Lotja, from the Assembly of Elected Carrecs, etc. And, therefore, I think these concepts are clear to us. But let me go a little further: we also have a national agreement that you have just proposed, the CUP, that is to say, a motion for a resolution on a national agreement to move forward on these three great ideas. , to achieve this great national agreement that is based precisely on this: in the exercise of the right of self-determination as quickly as possible – and I quote it textually – in the freedom of political prisoners and amnesty, and in the rights. In this national agreement, it's what we're working on. And I'm already announcing that you spent the holidays I'm meeting with all the parliamentary groups precisely, and with the entities, to see if it's possible that this national agreement will finally allow us to chart a course, a clear horizon, so that we can exercise this right to self-determination. This is the task we have, this task has been done by Parliament to the government, and so this is my... one of the first, let's say, concrete steps I wanted to establish. We have the debate. In April we will have already the first sources of what can be a Catalan constitution project; this I also think is another very important fact in the proper months to play. But above all this national agreement, on which, I insist, from the Reis weekend, I will convene the parties so that I can already advance in drawing this common horizon to exercise the right to self-determination in our country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.85.0	The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the industrial policy of the Government before the increase of the expedients of regulation of occupation presented by multinational enterprises in Catalonia]] [[317-00164/12]] When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.86.0	Yes, good morning, President. The number of people affected by EROs in Catalonia has increased by 76_per_cent in one year. I'm telling you that we, from the state government, will do everything we can to repeal labour reform. That is our guarantee and our commitment. What is the Government of the Generality doing before unilateral actions such as that of Continental to Rubí, which threatens to shut down the plant and leave hundreds of people on the street? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.87.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.88.0	So I think we've also talked about this with the Counselor of Work on a few occasions. Mediation, dialogue, being there, trying to solve the problems... this is always the attitude of the Government of the Generality. But there are certainly new expectations now, and it is the fact that, if you finally close this governing agreement with the PSOE, it is obvious that since your legislative action in Madrid, we can have some new prospects that we do not have until now. And so we will continue with a lot of interest, so what is the government's task that you from Madrid can do to help, precisely, in all these cases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.89.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.90.0	President, in addition to following with attention what goes on in the State, it would also be good for you to act in Catalonia, because we do see a lot of good words, but in reality, of actions, we see a few. We are patenting a real industrial crisis, with cases like Prysmian, Huayi, Luxione, Bayer, Sada, TE Connectivity..., much more, and what was now commenting on from the German Continental multinational, which is threatening to close the plant or sell it and leave 760 people on the road, most of whom are women and, many of them, seniors of forty-five years old. Therefore, we must see how we resolve this situation, because it is not only the direct work: we are talking about families, we are talking about indirect work, we are talking about territorial imbalance and, ultimately, we are talking about sovereignty. Because if we don't react quickly, we'll become a landing area for northern Europe. And what's going on here isn't happening with the same intensity in other European countries, like France or Germany. And that's because it's not about a meteorological phenomenon, but it's about political leaders: first of all, as I said, a labor reform that the People's Party brought forward, also with votes, with the support of the old Convergence, and second of all, we have the Government of the Generality, which, despite having skills in industrial planning, is also allocating resources, and we see that the National Pact for Industry is only executed in 20_per_cent. Therefore, president, we, as I have already said, will do the work of the Government of the State in the area of labour reform, because we need a government that is strong and on the side of workers and workers, and for its band we urge the Government to take seriously the challenge of a new industrial policy that leads to a fair transition, which, as it gave a sign the other day to Rubí's demonstration, says "sit and talk to multinationals, because it cannot be that they only come to seek their benefits and then leave our people behind." [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.92.0	Okay, okay with this last sentence that you were saying. But we're putting some data in context, too. Miri, the Col·legi d'Economistes presented some comparisons that seem to me to be interesting forces, because it posed figures on the figures and contrasts, from the third trimester of 2017 to the third trimester of 2019, which was the situation between Catalonia and Spain. Well, it turns out that Catalonia's GDP has increased by 4.5_per_cent, and Spain by 4.2_per_cent. Regarding trade, Catalonia has increased by 7.4_per_cent, and Spain by 6.9_per_cent. From the active population, Catalonia has risen by 2.7_per_cent, and Spain by 1.7. And Catalan exports in this same period– third quarter of 2017, third quarter of 2019–, so exports to Catalonia have increased by 4.3_per_cent and 3.9_per_cent. It is obvious that the comparison of the Catalan industry must be made with the euro area, okay? Therefore, the industry represents 20,7_per_cent of the Catalan VAB, above the 20_per_cent target set for the European Commission by 2020; in Spain, the industry is only 15,9_per_cent. We also take this into account at the time of seeing the influence and incidence of EROs in our country. In recent months, the economic activity in Catalonia has continued with a more moderate growth rate, certainly, and with this also the consequences with the EROs, but in line with the slowdown in the economy of the eurozone and other economies around it, and in any case, as I have just demonstrated with these figures, always much better – or at least more positively – respect the situation in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.93.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the increase of the dispatches of regulations of occupation and about the initiations to strengthen the Catalan industry]] [[317-00160/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.94.0	Thank you, President. Many honourable President of the Generality, if I may, take the question to wish the whole chamber and the country a good holiday and a magnificent 2020. And maybe you won't believe me, but I'll ask you a very similar question, not to mention the same, that made Jessica Albiach, the spokesman of In Comú Pode. Look, according to official data, employment regulation shippers have increased by 38_per_cent and affect 6,470 people, given that they are above the Spanish medium, which has been 25_per_cent in the same period. The question is, President: we would like to know what your view of respect is and what the Government intends to do to ensure the future of our industry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.95.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.96.0	So I also take advantage of wishing a good Nadal to everyone – I would just miss it – and a very good year; let's hope it's a year of freedom. And, respect the question you ask me, I insist on what I have answered to Mrs. Albiach, and also in a key piece, which will be the new assumptions of the coming year. The new presuppositions of the coming year must also give us those additional resources that allow us, for example, with the National Pact for Industry, to pull it forward; the National Pact of the Knowledge Society, also to provide it with more presuppositions..., a whole series of initiatives that must presumably enable us to endorse this industrial policy that our country needs so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.97.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.98.0	Thank you, President. Perhaps different from other control sessions, I like the whole and content of what you're saying and so I want to subrate. But we have some doubts about the government's ability to address the difficulties of the country's industrial sectors. And it's true, and you were talking about the need to increase resources, but we need to remember that the resources that go to industrial policies don't stop going down since 2012. And we don't know how to see a proper response from the government before the worrying news that affects the industrial sector. And, indeed, there are problems that affect businesses as relevant as Nissan or those that Jessica Albiach quoted from the Continental company, from Rubí, who is also a multinational automotive company that is precisely in crisis trying to adapt to electric vehicles and to our challenges of sustainability. Other relevant businesses have also been mentioned – General Cable, Sada or Bayer –, and it does not seem to us, we have not been able to find on the part of the government a reaction proportional to the concern they generate and the affect on the specific people. You have already come forward to say so, and I welcome it: to reactivate the Pact for Industry, which runs the risk of being left on paper only, and, indeed, this implies providing it economically in an ambitious way. Since they seem to be determined to increase the fiscal pressure, it seems logical that part of the additional resources that can be obtained is dedicated to preventing our industrial base from growing. President, governments, progress on issues, take responsibility and, if you need our cooperation, ask for it, because, from our point of view, the future is at stake. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.99.0	It has the word, again, the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.100.0	Thank you. So I take the word: I ask you to help us. He asks you to help us through the relationship his party has with the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, which if it ends up forming governments, then it will have a huge responsibility because part of these problems can be solved. The other day, the Chamber of Commerce presented a report on the infrastructure deficit in Catalonia, and there was a very interesting fact: the establishment that the lack of infrastructure investments in Catalonia had assumed in the last five years that I think five years – forgive me if I err in the five years–..., but a loss of 111,000 jobs in Catalonia, 111,000 jobs lost due to the lack of investment from the State in Catalonia ; that during all these last years of economic recovery, the State has invested less than ever in Catalonia. Therefore, recovering the reversal in Catalonia – which is 45,000_millions that need to recover from the reversal – will now be at your hands, if they rule again. And so I'm sure, therefore, that they will take it into account and that this authentic wisdom that represents for Catalonia this lack of infrastructure and that is already the whole business class... – Foment is saying, the room said it, the Circle of Economy also said it – so I guess we can fix it now. In any case, I would also like to give some positive news: the affiliation to social security in the industry has increased by 0.2_per_cent in the period of generation in October to Catalonia, and Catalonia leads the capture of foreign investment in the manufacturing industry in the Spanish State, with a 30_per_cent. I mean, it's also sometimes necessary to counter these news that you always get used to putting them down with the positive news that we also have in the industrial sector.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.101.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the tax agreement for the approval of the Generality's assumptions for 2020 and about independence and republicanism as media to guarantee social rights]] [[317-00163/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.102.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies. Ours is a firm bet to build a more just and social country, and this week we couldn't see shows. And we have done so despite the historical fiscal deficit that we suffer and the infrastructure investment deficit that the State assumes and never, ever executes. The minimum wage of reference is not an excellent example, an example of achieving a country with more opportunities, a country that shields social rights, which wants to protect all the effects of welfare for all the citizens of that country. But the good news, the fiscal agreement that Vice President Aragones and, by extension, the government and the commons have sealed this week is a step further to preserve more than ever salvation, education or social rights. Because we, president, want a better, fairer, more social society, and we are convinced – we are convinced – that the best way to achieve it is independence and, at the same time, we believe that to work for the day-to-day, betting on social claus, helping the people of this country, is also the best way to advance in republicanism, to grow, to walk towards the goal. Because, in fact, the two struggles, for Republican Left, are indestriable, there is no one without the other, there is no republic without social rights and we cannot shield all social rights without a republic. We'll never stop working there, either. And that's exactly why we're marking, right here, also this week's tax agreement. We applaud without any doubt that taxation is fairer and more progressive. We reduce fiscal pressure to lower yields, which earn more than bring more. Because ninety-thousand euros are not middle class, because rushing is clearly – clearly – another thing. Because we can get more and, therefore, we can offer more to those who need it the most. A social republic and justice, the country we want for everyone. We are convinced – we are convinced – that this is the way, and that is why we congratulate ourselves. Because it's just a passet, but an important passet. And that's why we ask him, president, if he shares that this is the way; the way to make a more social republic, a cleaner republic, and a freer republic. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.103.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.104.0	Yes, thank you, Congressman. Certainly, I also expressed it before the vice president in a question, until we solve the fiscal deficit, the lack of state investments and all the amount of debt that the State does not carry, so, every year, addressing the elaboration of assumptions is of enormous complexity – enormous. But a great effort has been made to have assumptions this year; a great effort that I share and that I want to thank all those who may have been involved. Why do we already have this part, let's say, about the share of the tickets, which is based on these three trunk axes of progressive, green taxation and social justice – it seems important that we note this, certainly – and that will allow us, therefore, these 543_millions of additional annual recaptancy, huh? What exactly do we need for the ambitious second part of the assumptions, which is expenditure, where we will end up spending all the money we need, among other things for the commitments we have made during this year, effectively, to meet all the just, legitimate social demands, huh? Let us remember all the waves, let us also remember the long-suffering petitions of external payments of our functionaries, etcetera. Therefore, we, in this case and in this presumption, have not considered that you are a presumption of part, or that you are a presumption of Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia. Let us consider that this must be a country assumption – a country assumption – because the country needs this assumption. Yes, it is true, we modify five taxes, the IRPF gains in progress and the tax burden is reduced for taxpayers with lower income levels, up to 12.450_euros, and increases in the higher-than-EUR-thousands. But... - and important too, this point, huh? , which I think will include in the future we will still have to continue to give them back and probably improve –, the tax on the environmental impact on storage, transformation and transport installations of electrical energy. I insist, we have the second part. A second part in which, effectively, social policies are absolutely priorities, is where the great part of the 2,500_million us that this assumption will incorporate will be dedicated and I think that, with these assumptions, all – all – the country will win there. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.105.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the telephone conversation with the President of the Government of the State in office and about the report of the Official Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Services and Navigation of Barcelona]] [[317-00162/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.106.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. Very honorable President Torra, Mr. Pedro Sánchez has taken two months to make him a phone call. And to call you, Mr. President, you've had to call all the autonomous communities, that maybe you've been able to get away with it and be more operative for what you're doing at your job. A president of the Spanish State who carries new functions, who demonstrates the state's governmental paralysis, that in four years there have been four elections and we have held, in four years, more days than a government in functions than no one executed in a march. The strength of the Catalan society, of the Government of Catalonia, of the complex of the industrial and economic fabric of our country has a great capacity for resistance and resilience. We've demonstrated it to the extent of our history. As, since the Spanish State, there have been times when we have wanted to end our culture and our culture or institutions, as we have seen there is a fiscal deficit that grows every day, such as Catalans and Catalans are the tax-paying champions of the more tax-paying and growing regions of Europe. And the state's fiscal deficit is still growing, and the state's debts are still hanging, and the state's infrastructure is still hanging. I don't know if Mr. Pedro Sánchez asked you about these issues, Mr. President. I'm afraid not. I have doubts that this shouldn't go this way. But, in any case, politics is resolved with respect for politics, with dialogue and political will. And, yes, also willing to solve people's problems. These last few days we have seen a report from the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona, which you have now made reference to, which framed as this fiscal deficit, this willingness to be the tax-paying champions, this willingness to be these wealthy students, has no answer to what he does to the compliment he makes on the investments he should make in Catalonia, and the economic consequences that this has for our day-to-day, of all Catalans and Catalans. Mr President, what do you think of this report? And if you think you've allowed the other band on the phone to have this sensitivity to the people of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.107.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.108.0	Yes, thank you, Congressman. Yes, indeed, it was a trick, a trick that we had been waiting for, so, for a few months, certainly, and, as I commented to President Sánchez, it seems to me that for a minimum of institutional courtesy, when you call a president, then you take the phone and you answer. And I was able to comment on that, along with other things. I mentioned to him what was the position of the Government of Catalonia, which I also explained before to Congressman Carles Riera, which is what we agreed in the Government, the exercise of the right to self-determination, amnesty and the fission of repression and rights. In change, I still don't know who the position of the Spanish State is. I don't know what the Spanish Government's proposal is for Catalonia, but I still don't know it. I've already been to the government for months, and I haven't been able to do it, even though the president of the Spanish government, of which, of course, half of these months have worked, I can tell you what time it is that he has or what proposal he will put on the table in the event that, in fact, there is this negotiating table and we can start the negotiating proposals. We will, of course, begin by asking for the exercise of the right to self-determination by means of a reference. I don't know what the position of the Government of Spain is. I don't know her yet. And, therefore, that also surprised me. And, certainly, this week, I think that this report from the Chamber of Commerce, which follows the stele, if I may, of other reports, which I also want to put in value, from the Promotion of the Work or the Circle of Economy, pose the Catalan enterprise, I think of its conjunction, before a repte. I have never asked the business that is defined as independentist or non-independentist, what I want is that, like important economic agents who are from the country, defending the interests of Catalonia. And, therefore, we see very clearly that there are deficiencies in infrastructures that are unbearable for the country and that end up affecting the industry, or end up affecting the welfare state. The social deficit..., I've said fifty times, it's a social deficit, it's a infrastructure deficit, it's a deficit, in short, for the welfare of our fellow citizens. And it's not about whether you're independent or not, it's about trains coming out on time, that you can fly from Barcelona to anywhere on the planet and that we have the Mediterranean Corridor at once. It's simply about these things, that the country worked. And I hope, therefore, that..., and in any case we will not fail to demand from the Government of the State the compliment of all the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.109.0	President, time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.110.0	...desures they have pendants with Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.111.0	Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generality about his knowledge of the reports of the Mossos d'Esquadra and the Servei Català de Trànsit that they disagreed to hold the permission to make the March for Freedom]] [[317-00159/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.112.0	Thank you. Mr Torra, a few days ago we were familiar with reports, thanks to the parliamentary work of my group, where the Mossos d'Esquadra and the Servei Català de Trànsit reported on the refusal of the permission of the roadblocks promoted by the ANC in response to the judgement of the trial. Did you know these reports and their contents?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.113.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the paragraph.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.114.0	No, I didn't know them. In any case, I do know the duty I have as President of the Generality, which is to respect the right to protest the citizens. A right to the protest that was exercised, if you refer to the freedom march [[applause]] peacefully, democratically, mobilizing millions of citizens for a very clear objective, which is to protest against an unjust, abusive feeling; to demand the freedom of our companies and the return of exiles, and a solution which, for Catalonia, cannot be other than that of the exercise of our country's right of self-determination.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.115.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.116.0	Wow, you didn't know these reports. Aren't you talking to Mr. Buch? Because he did know them. And, besides, it is a duty that you, as president of the Generalitat, have. Look, I'll read you one of these reports. He said: "Unfavorable information is being given and it is proposed that the demonstration be refused because it has a negative effect on the movement, on the safety of demonstrators, on the safety of other road users and on the safety of police officers. Look, other reports also require this permission to change the course of these roadblocks, and others even warn you of the danger and the risk that they may cause accidents in the other direction of traffic. Result of all these indications of the Mossos and the Servei Català de Trànsit? Well, look, if you missed these tips and recommendations, zero actions to prevent these roadblocks and zero actions also to deter those once these cuts had already occurred. So far I see enough cause of irresponsibility, for doing nothing to avoid that risk. But it is that, moreover, you went a little further, in particular you, as you always do: not only did you not stop the roadblocks, but you went to lead them, Mr. Torra. What's wrong with you? What were you thinking? It's just that this is as if rural agents recommend not going to the forest for fire risk and we see you the next day strolling there with matches. You don't see that, Mr. Torra? Do you not see that you have an inescapable duty to ensure the well-being and safety of all Catalans simply because you are the President of the Generalitat? What happens that, you, being president, then, only likes the good: you like the salary, you like the official car, but, of course, when we talk about obligations and responsibilities, that doesn't go with you anymore, does it, Mr. Torra? Look, if you want to go and cut roads, then do it – do it – but not as President of the Generalitat, because that is incompatible, Mr Torra. So you have to decide: what do you want to be, President or CoR? Because both things can't be, Mr. Torra. Look, Tsunami's have already threatened to boycott the classic today. So I ask you: what suit are you going to wear today, the President's or the CoR's? If you want to be president, act as president, although I'm afraid it's too late to make amends. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.117.0	To answer the word the president has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.118.0	Home, this time it made it easy for me, huh? I, this late, with the Barça suit and we expect Barça to win and have a good game of football and have a good game of football. Look, listen, democracy is absolutely consubstantial with the right of protest and protest. That's what you should hear. I imagine the group of you, from Ciutadans, to the French National Assembly, what you would say every day, with the waves, with the demonstrations that arrive there in France, etcetera. I accept that this is a country where democracy is alive, it is lived intensively, because we have always done so, this goes with ourselves. And, therefore, yes, the people protest, because the feeling is a very serious feeling, because there are people in prison, because there are people in exile, because repression continues, and, therefore, the people protest. And we, as the government, have the right and the duty to defend – to defend – these protests. And, look, about today's Barça party, so it seems to me that... I was listening to Barça's spokesman yesterday, who I assume will also have to do the same toilets that I just did to myself... but he said it with a naturality, saying: "Look, we seem to be able to do a democratic and peaceful protest exercise and also play the game. And he let it go with this naturality. And he added something very important, and that's it: Barça has always been a space of freedom, always has been. Look at the history of Barça. No, look... I already know they don't like the story, but if you look at a little bit of the story, then you will find that – always – Barça has represented a space where people can express themselves freely. And that's what's going to happen this late, that people will express themselves with freedom. [[applause]] We'll enjoy a great game of football, plus Barça will win – perfect. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.119.0	After the control session, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is in concrete terms the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry into the Castor Project. [[Opinion of the Research Commission on the Castor Project]] [[261-00001/12]] In accordance with Rule 67.6 of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission of Inquiry into the Castor Project, in its session held on 13 December, agreed to issue its opinion, which was published in the Butlletí Oficial del Parlament de Catalunya. In the first place, in order to present this opinion and the work done to the committee, Mr Ferran Civit has the word, as chairman of the committee. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.120.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. First of all, a thank you to the presence here of the Mayor of Alcanar, the Alcanar union and also representatives of the Platform in Defense of the Lands of the Senia, for having come here, because they led the whole issue of the struggle when there was the terratromols, to the territory. Also a thank you to the parliamentary groups that have participated in the committee; very much thanks to your contributions, very much thanks to the work of all these months. I think it was profitable, worked well and created a good environment in the committee. And I also benefit from giving thanks, so not only to all the people who have come, they have appeared, to the people who are like, to the entities who are like, who have brought their smile. Despite this, it is true that as President I am sorry, and that is why I am sad, because in the committees and their conclusions, sometimes – here in this Parliament I get used to passing more than once – when appearances of people representing the Spanish political power have been demanded, shielding themselves in legal arguments, they have not come. And I find that sad because, of course, a commission of inquiry always, always, always has to look for the truth. And when the effects in this case have been in Catalonia but the decisions have been near Madrid, we cannot know the whole truth. Therefore, the conclusions that will be voted on all the time will remain lame, because there will not be the parent, the point of view, the contributions or the doubts that have arisen during this commission. We won't know – we won't know. Here we will suppose, here we will have opinions, here we will have positions, there will be recommendations, but unfortunately, we will not have the answer to many questions that have remained pending. Because here, too, what we have seen is that, according to the conclusions that are then debated and voted on, a similar situation has been given, which is happening in other places, which there is a triangle of Bermuda in which, at least, citizens and public benefits are always damaged, between the Spanish political power, by a band, in a vertex, the Spanish judiciary and the economic powers. And here the conclusions seem to have come to this line. This is one of the things that we, as politicians, as the circumstantial political class that we are now in Parliament, think we should do with all the commissions of inquiry, that from this vertex we have ceased to be a triangle of Bermuda but it is a triangle of social prosperity and justice, in which citizenship, the environment and, ultimately, everyone is not feeling harmed. We'll have this pending court ruling, we'll have these conclusions today, but as long as there's no court rulings in all the closed cases, we won't have the whole truth. And I know it's hard to say, I'm sure we won't. Despite this, I think everything that's been through these months has been positive. We still don't have the judicial sentences, we won't have the whole truth, with these conclusions that we will vote on today, but as a matter of fact we will have after what is actually said, it is the Castor and not the Castor. This is one of the few things that we have after all the truth. And let's hope we've got it all figured out soon enough. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.121.0	Thank you, Mr. Civit. We are now moving to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to position ourselves on the opinion for a maximum of two minutes for each group and five minutes for the subgroups. The first word is for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, deputy Francisco Javier Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.122.0	Thank you, President. Well, we're here to debate and vote on the opinion of the Castor Research Committee. According to the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, in Article 67, "the Commission of Inquiry investigates the matters of public interest which remain the competence of the Generality. We are in this committee of inquiry, which has lasted more than a year, has held more than fifteen sessions, has requested and received documentation, has summoned witnesses and experts from the scientific and academic community, from civil society, which I take advantage to greet also, political leaders, and the opinion that is adopted today should clarify, according to the Rules of this Parliament, everything related to the competences of the Generalitat and the actions of the Government in relation to the Castor project. Our initial proposal had focused precisely on everything related to the Catalan Autonomous Administration and the responsibilities of the Catalonian Parliament itself in controlling government action, but you will see that the opinion is not going to be so. In fact, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group has always defended that it is in the Government of Spain, and therefore in the Congress of Deputies, where the competence lies and where this Castor project should be investigated, since it is a project at the national level. Nor should we go into any aspect that is in judicial proceedings, since there should be no interference and it is in the judicial and non-parliamentary arena where everything that is currently in the courts must be discussed. It is essential to explain what we are going to vote on today. We will vote on a text negotiated between Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, and, of course, also In Comú Puem, and each and every other of the proposals put forward by the other parliamentary groups have been rejected. This text, to which we will not support, also has some joys; it is recognized that the Constitutional Court declares unconstitutional the decree to charge on the gas invoice the compensation to the company; it recognizes that the Constitutional Court declares the urgency of this decree unjustified; it recognizes that the National Court and the Supreme Court sentence that it was unlawful to fraction the project to avoid the environmental impact assessment, and they admit the annulment of the municipal license of Vinaròs of the terrestrial plant by the Administrative Court number 2 of Castellón. And we think it's great that this is admitted, but know that sentences must be respected if all and not just the ones we like. I am therefore glad that, at least in this case, which is favourable, they recognize the judiciary. And we are going to vote against it for several reasons. The first is because very close and conclusive conclusions are raised without the benefit of doubt on points that are not technical certainties. For example, it speaks of a number of misconceptions rather than of possible misconceptions or irregularities; it speaks of an obviously abusive clause rather than of an alleged abusive clause; it speaks of incompetence and negligence, thus, without any conflicting evidence, with very little rigour, and treats the governments of the PP and socialist as acting with desirousness and indolence. Well, that's how we left it, but I don't think it's right for a conclusion. There is also talk of the EIB, the European Bank, in terms of its use of incompetent risk assessment mechanisms and so on. It's a very inaccurate type of terminology. I would rather leave opinions as opinions, which are very legitimate, and reserve for conclusions ideas that are rigorously contrasted and based on unquestionable technical evidence. Because this text – we are also going to vote that it could not – could have been drafted perfectly before the commission began, more than a year ago, because it gives the feeling that the drafters of this text have been reinforcing their previous thesis as they were detecting statements that were suitable for them or that favored them, without paying too much attention to opposing opinions; that is, there is a lot of party rhetoric in this text. And we are also going to vote against this also because we are taking advantage of a project that has clearly gone wrong, which has created very visible and very media problems, to blame the different governments of Spain and, by the way, Spain itself. But as I am optimistic by nature, I confess that during the committee I have learned a lot about this project, among other things that is not Castor, that is Castor, as Mr Civit has said well; I have been able to listen to many experts that it has been a real pleasure to listen, and it has been an effort to compile really interesting information, although this was not the objective of the committee of inquiry, to satisfy my information. Now what I'm going to explain is the proposal I had originally put forward Citizens, with five key points, which I think were more or less consensus. First, the declaration of the Castor as a work of general interest; the cause-effect relationship between the Castor and the earthquakes; the technical aspects and the need for a technical audit; the impact on the population; and the dismantling of the plant. On the declaration of work of general interest. Some representatives and some Members, also, throughout the committee, have raised doubts as to whether or not it was correct to declare the Castor as a work of general interest. And, on the dates when the first decision of the Castor was taken, in 96, not now, but in 96, the European energy requirements, with the guarantee of supply to industry, the expectations of growth of energy needs, the great dependence of the external gas market, the instability in the countries of origin of this gas, were all decisive factors for this declaration of general interest, and so other representatives put it, so it seems clear that the declaration of the Castor as a project of general interest at the time was very justified. Another section would be the cause-effect relationship between the Beaver and the Seismos. At first, and after the first earthquakes, it was questioned that the movements originated in the gas injections of the Castor, but most of the participants, especially the technicians and scientists who have dealt with the subject of induced seismology, consider that there is a direct relationship between the gas injections of the Castor and the seismic movements of September 2013. Therefore, everything that is based on this relationship, therefore, we believe is correct. That is why we will vote in favour of conclusion 4.2, which goes in this line, to verify that the real cause of earthquakes was gas injection. Then there are the technical aspects and the audit. Many technical aspects have been put forward throughout the committee, and as Members we cannot and do not need to be able to assess them, but concepts such as 'pressure, 'rock porosity, 'breaking pressure, 'inadequacies and lack of experience of companies, 'irregularities or errors, 'incompetence, 'negligence, 'dulo... These are concepts that are important because they affect the allocation of responsibilities. And it seems that it is an idea of consensus to carry out an independent technical audit so that we can really get to know what is true and what is not true. And only from this technical audit can we clear all the responsibilities that we are demanding all groups and citizenship. So we will vote in favour of conclusion 9.11, among other things also because the Spanish Government is asked to establish the responsibilities, if appropriate, of the public administrations in granting the Castor. And why are we voting for this? Because we really have to ask the Government of Spain, which has the competence, to clean up responsibilities. Then there is the impact on the population. I have interpreted through the appearances that there are two types of affectation: one is the damage caused by earthquakes to nearby populations, and the damage to consumers' pockets by putting compensation on the gas bill. With regard to this economic damage, there is already a ruling on this, and we hope that it will be completed when the judicial process is over. And with regard to the damage to nearby populations, I have not really known, I have not been able to detect demonstrable material damage, but it is clear that there is an unquantifiable emotional cost; first, because of the previous uncertainty about what was going to happen with that project, that there was considerable misinformation, and because of the concern and fear of not knowing whether the movements that people detected would have greater consequences. And this emotional or moral cost is reason enough to develop a protocol of communication and citizen participation to prevent this happening again in any other situation. And finally, there is dismantling; dismantling of marine facilities. There is a very broad consensus on this. Currently, the state of hibernation has a maintenance cost, and since it seems to be ruled out to give any other use to this warehouse, maintaining hibernation is an unnecessary cost and..., so it is essential to dismantle the facilities. Another issue is who should pay for the expenses. Here again the topic of the technical audit, which is who has to establish responsibility for who has to dismantle this and who has to pay it. Finally, I would like to thank all the attendees for having come to Parliament, for having used their time altruisticly for a common good, and, given the appearances, many of the guests have been seen to have been cured a lot, that is, they have not come here with their hands in their pockets; they have come with wanted documentation, with processing done for a long time, and therefore it is very much to be thanked. And finally, I want to announce that we will vote in favour of a point in favour of geologists, because they asked, several geologists, to advance in the knowledge of geology and create a geological map, and I think it is important for future uses of subsoil in Catalonia. Nothing more from me. Thank you and happy holidays. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.123.0	Thank you, Mr Dominguez. Next, it is the return of MP Jordi Terrades, the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.124.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, today we have a debate on an infrastructure that began to develop in September 1996. Energy paradigms, at those times, were a few more. Therefore, I have already announced that my group will not vote for the vast majority of conclusions and recommendations that are presented this morning. The decision to build a gas warehouse did not obey any pure interest, it was the result of the country's energy needs in line with the approved energy planning, and following, moreover, the guidelines of the European Union. So much so that the Pla de l'Energie de Catalunya also collected it, huh? The energy plate that's still in place. On September 2002, the Government chaired by Mr. José María Aznar approved the planning of the electricity and gas sectors, the development of transport networks from 2002 to 2011, and this planning integrated the development of electricity and gas systems in the time period 2002 to 2011. In 2006, the Council of Ministers approved a review of the planning of the electricity and gas sectors, and..., this same period, and, more concretely, from 2005 to 2011. In order to place us in the context of that moment, it must be borne in mind that the primary energy consumption in Spain had increased, from the year 90 to the year 2004, a 54,4_per_cent, while the GDP had increased a 43,7_per_cent; that is, the growth of the gross domestic product was smaller. Energy intensity had also increased significantly. The demand for electricity had increased by almost 79_per_cent, and the demand for gas by 491_per_cent, while oil and its derivatives by 48,7_per_cent. Catalunya, huh? , its industrial, residential activity was also making a mutation towards mass gas consumption. He created the economy, he created energy consumption, he created the people of Catalonia; Catalonia had ceased to be the Catalonia of the six-millions – which we would remember from certain campaigns–, he created the occupation, he also grew other things that later became lethal to the Catalan economy, Spanish and I would say that world, right? Basically, the real estate bubble that brought the debt of the country's group of businesses and families. This planning document foresees the decline in coal consumption, the consumption of oil, and there was a substantial increase in the consumption of biofuels, and, as I said, a significant increase in gas consumption; the gasification of many municipalities, but above all, the need for gas for the combined cycle, which at that time was to replace the fuel and coal plants that are now in Catalonia..., huh? No one remembers it, but today in Catalonia we no longer have it, and at that moment we did have it. In planning, there was no break-up, as it did at these times, the need for storage for what makes renewables. At the same time, the first nuclear power plant in Spain was shut down. It was aimed at bringing electricity consumption closer to the average annual increase in gross domestic product for this planning period; the intensity, again, had increased, and let's say that the power we had installed at the end of 2004 was 66,784 megawatts, today it is of the order, around 104,000 megawatts installed, that is, a 64_per_cent more. Renewable energies had to contribute, in the year 2011, to the total balance, around 12.5_per_cent; it was the one that gave the planning. Gas, as I recall, in 2004, represented a 17.4_percent of the total amount of primary energy. In the European Union, this average gas consumption was already in 25_per_cent. And, despite that, our gas dependence was now and still is at this time, total. At that time, the system was supplied through the Magrib gas pipeline, i, phonentally, with the regasifier system. Some of the experts who passed us have told us that the reservations there were between twenty and twenty-five days, huh? Therefore, the new infrastructures that have been planned to listen to this dynamic, to this vision; a vision that is absolutely different from what we have today. It is at this point that he is in charge, year 96 – or he is giving an license to a Canadian company, after participating for a Spanish company, ACS –, the fact of doing explorations, prospectings and the possibility of managing an old oil market to turn it into a warehouse. It is this company that is in charge of doing all the studies and developing underground gas projects and the regasifier that was installed in the municipality of Vinaròs. The statement of environmental impact that was made at those times was endorsed by the technicians, and informed, the results of the knowledge that existed at that time, of scientific knowledge, was endorsed..., the reports that were subsequently taken care of, the incidents that went on, endorsed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, or the same Geological and Mineral Institute, point out that the risk assessment techniques that existed at those times were the ones that were used. The dispatch accompanying the DIA established the installation of a real-time seismic detection system to assess and correct any issues that might arise. In fact, this system, which could probably have been longer and better, but it worked very well and provided seismic activity data from a week before the Castor's shutdown. Analyzing various expert testimonies and documentation provided, we believe that the injection of gas at pressures and higher than expected rhythms are the ones that triggered the seismicity in leak failures and in adjacent segments of the system of the Amposta fault, even though the experts did not agree if it was this fault or was another one. We could be talking a lot about this whole thing. We... – I've got a minute and a half left, and so I'm not going to make any other arguments useful. I would like to make a point that, from our point of view, is important. When the government of Mariano Rajoy decided the system of compensation, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, also the Parliament of Catalonia, appealed to the Constitutional Court, which declared null the procedure applied for the government of Spain. I would also like to point out that before the National Court a claim was filed that required criminal liability for the compensation fixed for the activity of the warehouse, also the process of authorization, and that this claim was dismissed and filed in the light of the fact that the acts are not constituted of criminal appearance, and the magistrates shut down the criminal concert, I read it literally. And they also rule out that there is an action sought to agree to an unfair action. We will give support to the... – and they are already calling for a separate vote from recommendation 11.6. And we would also like to welcome the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 31 December of Enguany, which orders that hibernation, which has also been the subject of debate, installation, order the segelate of this warehouse and the definite abandonment of the ponds. What we are also asking, with one of the conclusions that we believe has not been accepted, was to ask the Government of the State to guarantee the taxpayers' interests for what it does to compensation for the non-fixing of the facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.125.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Next is the turn of Congressman Lucas Ferro, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.126.0	Well, thank you very much, President. I believe that the Castor project can be defined with two words: that it is a typical and characteristic project of the capitalism of friends, of a country that says its energy policy is not about the need for the administration and the guarantee of the sub-administration of citizens and their businesses, but about the work of the enterprises friends of the different governments, and a country that, as always, allows these social enterprises to lose and privatize gains. The Castor project, for us, is not a useful project that has been poorly executed; it is a functionally useless project, as a result of poor energy planning, which has resulted in an ecological impact on the Mediterranean coast, an impact on the lives of the lives of the people, who have had to suffer the earthquakes and the uncertainty that this has entailed in their lives, and an economic impact on the whole of the city, which has had to see how a government has tried to rescue the three-thousand-thousands of euros that cost the failed project, of its butchaques, through the gas bill. [[Pause.]] I'm sorry, I'm pretty constipated. Following the success of the irregularities of this project, in the tendering procedure, in its execution, in its financing and in its rescue, it has cost us weeks of appearances and studies, but all of the appearances, both experts and witnesses, have shown us the legitimacy of the project, created, managed and rescued for years for bipartisanism without being able to say so and to guarantee the rights of the joint citizens and the dignity of public administrations. Surely the first conclusion we would have to make of the Castor case is that the Government of the State should ensure that a company like this does not win a tender procedure for the Spanish State again in its life, because I believe that a company that is capable of doing and defiing, as ACS has done and as Mr Florentino Pérez has done, in order to always play for good it would not have to remanage more public services or projects of its kind in a country like ours. But from the Castor project we can make some other conclusions. The first thing we want to make a manifest is that we made an absolutely failed bet for the combined cycles and for gas as the energy of the future. And it's this bet for gas as the energy of the future that makes us put on the table storage projects like the Beaver. Today, after the gas bet boom, the combined cycle power plants in our country are operating at 13_percent of their capacity, and the same Electric Network has acknowledged that more of the combined cycle power plants could be closed down without there being any consequence for the sub-administration neither present nor future. Today, all gas consumers in the State, all the citizens who pay their gas bill and all the companies that pay their gas bill have had to pay up to €700_million, because the gas stations do not only pay for what they produce, but they also have what they know to pay per capacity, and therefore an oversized gas system that involves €700_million in payment for a capacity that is not used to generate energy. And they've had to hold up as well as they wanted them to pay through their gas bill the result of Castor's failure. And that they pay today also something that for us is very important, that is the opportunity cost of different governments that assumed that gas was a future energy, when they should have assumed that the Spanish energy system needs a bet for renewable energies, that they are not only a sustainable energy but also sovereign. And all these millions of euros that cost us the combined cycle power plants, which cost us the Castor project, which is costing us the payments per capacity, we could have invested them in renewable energy, and this has had an opportunity cost for the country's whole. The second conclusion that we extract is that the tender procedure only had the purpose of giving it to Florentino Pérez and to his companies the gas warehouse. There was no public competition, it was awarded to a company without experience in the sector, with no more objective than redirecting the costs of a failed public work cylinder, as there was in Spain, to the energy sector. We have included clauses of all abusive, such as the famous clause 14, which basically says: "You are not concerned, that if the company acts with pain or negligence, we will reassure you that all the citizens will rescue their project. And legislative and regulatory changes were made to measure, such as maritime limits, or the extension of the years the company had to give up the project, simply to fit this project and the company's aspirations for benefits. All this procedure and the extra costs prove, in our opinion, a fundamental thing, that is the ability of ACS to place the different governments of the State at its service, to use the State as if it were its own legal cabinet, which we consider to be shameful and impromptu of a democratic state. The third conclusion is that the design itself of the project was neglected, and with the sole objective of supporting a project that had already failed. There was no seismic risk assessment even though there were priors of induced seismicity in similar projects; it was fractionalized the project to avoid a comprehensive environmental impact assessment; the geological model and the geodynamic flow model have obvious shortcomings and have been basically used to justify a project that was already geologically unviable. The fourth conclusion that we extract is that the financing of the project had as its sole objective to guarantee the benefits of creditors. The same chairman of the ACS Board of Directors acknowledged in committee that he had had contacts with the Minister of Industry. The same CEO of Banc Santander acknowledged that if the seismic studies had been carried out correctly, the project could not have been financed because of the risk it was going to take. And the same European Investment Bank acknowledged that they did not follow up on the project as they were obliged to do. And the last and fifth conclusion of the project is that the same execution of the project was negligent. The loading and unloading tests necessary to study the earth's response to gas injections were not properly performed, nor were the instruments necessary to study the microsemimicity that generated these first injections. And the worst of all is not that the whole process in his design, in his execution and in his finance architecture, was a failed project or was a scam project; the worst was the response of the different governments before a project that only generated costs and only created risk for both the citizenship of the territory and the joint interests of the State. And these governments were able to break the chain of friendships and neglects that this project entailed. And not only that, but when the project was obviously already failed, the failed project ceased to be operational, Rajoy's government wanted to shield the company's benefits by making the city pay the cost of the whole project. A decree – fallen, certainly, for justice – by which the Government, immigrating from an economic emergence without precedent to our country, rescued Florentino Pérez from one of the major economic scams of our democracy. And, therefore, I believe that from all this administrative procedure, from all this failed work and from what it has assumed, we can draw some conclusions. The first is that the Castor project only benefited those who built it, those who allowed it and those who financed it, ensuring that the government rescued them when necessary. The second is that for the rest of the city they are still lost: the cost and costs of the project, the impact on the lives of the affected lives, the decree to rescue them through the gas bill of all the citizens of this country, and also, as we noted before, the opportunity cost of getting to the gates of 2020 without having a clear bet for renewable energies as the energy model of the future. And the third clear conclusion is that there was a clear conxorx between the State, the ACS company and the banking entities that financed the project, and that would be able to clear responsibilities and ensure that no public euro would end up rescuing this project. And the last conclusion is that it is necessary to dismantle the Castor and that those responsible assume the cost of its dismantling and the restoration of the natural environment of the Mediterranean coast. And lastly, the last comment I wanted to make is that I need to put the bottle that we've lived through all these years, and it's more than ever in front of the ambitions of a few, in front of the rights of the city council, neither to build a gas warehouse, nor to build a macrocase in Salou and Vila-seca. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.127.0	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Next is the return of the deputy Maria Sirvent, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.128.0	Good morning. We wanted to begin our intervention with the untiring appearance and work they have done during all these years the Association of Affections for the Castor Platform, and the Platform in Defense of the Lands of the Senia, and the Observers of Debt and Globalization, and also the Journalistic Investigation Task of Jordi Marsal. His struggle and perseverance has been possible and has served to denounce the ploy that he has represented and still represents today this great infrastructure that, as Cristina said, which today accompanies us, swallows the territory and has become one of the most paradigmatic cases of socialization of lost and privatized gains. A gas pipeline declared illegal for the same Supreme Court and still affecting the veins, which have not seen their rights restored. This explains very well to us the Revelation, which also accompanies us. He was the current Minister of Ecological Transition, Teresa Ribera, who at that time was Secretary of State of Canvi Climàtic, who authorized the trossement, in order to avoid the company the precept of environmental impact study. A maritime plant where injections were made without any type of control or seismic risk study, despite the demands of social movements and the existence of planned studies to warn of the risk of seismicity. The injections finally caused a thousand terratromols that reached an intensity of 4.3 on the Richter scale. A land plant built in a non-urbanized soil on the basis of an urban law annulled by a firm court. The Castor project is capitalism in its essence. They are superhomes with Florentino Pérez, Ned Goodman or Recaredo del Potro, who act from the hands of their necessary cooperators; financial markets and public institutions that deploy captives of impunity in their step; banks, institutions and multimillionaire entrepreneurs, united for a very concrete objective: to transfer public capital to their private butxaques. Supermen our lives and territories don't deserve any kind of consideration. Castor is embezzlement, corruption, traffic of influences, environmental crimes, self-contracting assumptions, buying of volunteers, changes of maritime boundaries. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, they changed the maritime boundaries to make things easier for the mob. A total of €1,350_million was paid to Mr Florentino Pérez in a timely manner, and despite the fact that after the same Constitutional Court resolved by way of a firm ruling that neither the payment nor the urgency nor the transfer of this payment to the gas bills were justified, no one, absolutely no one, has returned to us this money, which follows in the pockets of those who hold trading on the Bernabéu stage. The cumulative bills for Endesa to Catalonia in the concept of poor energy are 30_million euros. It is a shameful system that puts at Florentino's butxaques 1,350_million euros in thirty days and that does not pay 30_million euros of poor energy and let these companies threaten us. This case is also an exemplary case of financing the economy, as each time more the private sphere takes relevancy in the financing of structures that do not have any kind of meaning and that are a big scam. It was neither more nor less than the European Investment Bank, under the vice-presidency of Magdalena Álvarez, with its necessary co-operators – the Santander, CaixaBank or Bankia – which set up a financing mechanism that constituted illegal state aid. It was a safe bet for speculators, who had secured the return of their reversal under any circumstance. A clause was written to the contract which said that in the event of misconduct or negligence the company would receive compensation equally, "the alleged abusive clause, as the deputy of Ciutadans said. A concession which was extended and which greatly increased the price, but which was extended, its waiver, from five to twenty-five years. They omitted all the principles of the right to administration and the right to the environment, but the most important of all: it was playing with people's lives. The Beaver affected Amposta's failure, with a seismic potential of 7.1. The hardest terratromol was 4.3, but the situation could have been much more devastating for the veins of the towers. If the children of Florentine slept that night in Alcanar or Vinaròs, surely these injections have stopped. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] With much more celerity. This is not an isolated or timely case; it is a systemic case. Motorways without cars...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.129.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.130.0	... – I ended up, President – motorways without cars, airports without planes or the case of the Mestre motorway in Venice, which ended with the Italian Minister of Industry in prison and which was financed with the same financing mechanism...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.131.0	Ahabi, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.132.0	... – I finish, President – they are a clear example that this is not a case in point. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.133.0	Thank you, sir. Next is the return of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.134.0	Thank you, Vice President. It will advise, deputies, deputies, people who accompany us and especially, therefore, those affected, will allow me to begin with reading some articles of the Rules. 67: "The function of the commissions of inquiry is any public interest that is the competence of the Generality. I will also follow 68, apart 1, sub-part to, which says: "The appearances will only be in relation to the competencies of the Generality. And, as you all know, and after the Committee of Inquiry even more, the Government of Catalonia has not participated in this project. And also, as you all know, the control that this chamber exercises is over the Government of the Generality, and therefore, this chamber what it cannot do is to quote members and heads of other governments so that they come to compare in this chamber, and also control the pocket that other administrations make, which is not the first of this chamber. So, obviously, the view we have of the board of inquiry is a partial view, because they couldn't compare all the actors; yes, this is the first part. But there is one part: the view of the findings of the Board of Inquiry is still more partial, because the groups that support the Government, with the invaluable collaboration of the Pueblo Group, have decided that the findings are theirs, and from those of the opposition groups there has been no admission of a single ratella– or a single ratella. Therefore, these will not be the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry, they will be the conclusions of the groups that support the Government more We can, which I believe we can already include among the groups that support the Government. We gave support to the creation of this commission of inquiry in view of the time when the earthenware suffered, but we were already going to admit and warn of the limitations with which we would find ourselves. And today's conclusions are like the weekend of a football game; a lost football game, right? The weekend of a lost football game, everyone has done better than the coach who was actually at the banquet. Everyone knows now that there was no need for a gas warehouse; everyone knows now that this Castor could not function in any way; everyone knew that this was a planetary conxorx to try to benefit the Royal Madrid, no more or less – a planetary conxorx of all agents to benefit the Royal Madrid – ; everyone had to know – everyone had to know – the seismic risks, which after not even the subsequent technical reports are bound to assert with certainty. Everyone, everyone, everyone, but only – only a few directly affected were opposed to that project. The truth is that analyzing in depth the entire evolution of the project, from the first investigative permissions of year 96, a top to the conclusion that, man, maybe we could have saved ourselves a lot of money and a lot of years of research. Listen, in the accounts of doing so many investigations on the warehouse that was before the Amposta oilfield, so it was possible to set up a committee of inquiry in Parliament, and I am sure that the groups that support the government have concluded that this operation was not to be done. But reality is coughing up and some of the things that you didn't want to include in your conclusions are close enough. In 2005, the Government of the Government of Catalonia approved the 2006-2015 Energy Plan, which stated: "It is very urgent and important to create strategic gas stores to meet the demand of Catalonia. And he was aiming at two possibilities: a gas warehouse in Reus or the gas warehouse in Amposta. I would like to recall, in case anyone has lost their memory, that, from that government, they were part of Esquerra Republicana, Socialist Party and its predecessors, Mr. Lucas Ferro – their predecessors were part of that government – and we do not know that they had opposed this energy plan, which certainly provided for combined cycle centers, those that you say never had to do with life. But then, the Energy and Climate Change Plan 2012-2020, approved for a Convergence government, highlights again the importance of this gas warehouse. I liked to say what our conclusions were. We will not support any recommendation in relation to competences that are not of the Administration of the Generality and, therefore, we will vote against everything, all the conclusions that have been presented to us. Because in the end, I insist...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.135.0	You're out of here, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.136.0	... these are the conclusions of the groups, all of them, of the four, who support the government, not our group, nor the commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.137.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next is the return of Deputy Josep Lluís Salvado, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.138.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies, deputies..., and especially, to greet the president of the Consell Comarcal del Montsià and the mayor of Alcanar and the companies of the Platform of the Senia. Well, today..., and Alcanar's syndicate too – he forgives. Today we present the conclusions of fourteen months of work, after forty appearances, during fifteen sessions – as has already been mentioned – which have tried – and is intended – to summarise what are twenty-five years of history. A project that at this time has already exceeded 2,000_million euros in costs, which, as you know, at the time resulted in more than five hundred terratremols and accumulated at hours of that five firm sensations, and still seems to indicate that the accountant will continue to grow. Today, no one in prison; today, the Court of Auditors still expects me to open a dispatcher – surely in other cases it has had much more interest and more diligence. We are ahead of one of the major social, political and economic scandals that exemplify, as has been said, this marriage between indeed great entrepreneurs builders of the Spanish State and the powers of the State. There has been a project loaded with deproposals, which, in the long run, has had to count on the essential concertation and the connivance of the main representatives of the Spanish State in the field of energy policies and infrastructure over a long period of time. From 2000 to 2014, these years have been systematically facilitating all and each of the legal and financial administrative acts so that a project that in some other conditions has been impossible and impossible to develop can be developed. The legal framework has been adapted, measures have been taken which today are firmly felt by various judicial bodies, and they are clearly declaring as illegal: actions by the Government of the State and other administrations; actions of an irregular nature, arbitrary and unjust, which have put security and public safety at risk and, obviously and in a very clear way, have prioritised the particular interests of the participating companies and contractors, of course, to the general interest. The work of the committee has been complete and we have been able to set up a sufficiently wide view of what has been the development of the project. We started with energy planning that was too long in the 2000s, which allowed us to develop a project that – at this time, and certainly with the information that we have accumulated – is obvious and clear that it was a project that was not necessary for the general interest, and that certainly responded practically to the private interests of a particular company. And a project that, at this time, we know it cost a lot more money than it cost to build these deposits on the surface. A project that was installed in an inadequate seismic location, a project technically with many deficiencies, a technically insolvent project, and which was found before an administration with the objective not to tax, but to facilitate and put a captivate it because it can develop with all possible facilities. It has accumulated a large number of administrative permits and award procedures loaded with conflicting court judgements, which clearly show favours. With privileged financing from the EIB and the large banks of the Spanish State. A classic business project of a BOE economy, which built a legal architecture created for the Government of the State, and especially on behalf of the People's Party, which resulted in all economic risks to the citizen, to the gas consumers, exonerating the promoter and deriving all possible benefits that could be derived from the ACS and the banks. We have been able to listen to these fourteen-month-old actors, such as Mr Florentino Pérez, Mr Joan Ribó, Mr Jordi Évole, President Montilla, at Josep Huguet, the President of Cecot – Mr Antonio Abad –, many of the representatives of social movements, geólegs, bankers, politicians, business entities of our country, who should be grateful to all of them for their contributions, their time, their respect for the work of the commission of inquiry. And at the length of these fifteen sessions we have not been able to listen to anyone from the Administration of the State, from the great political leaders, from the PSOE or the PP, except for the Lord..., from the President Montilla, from the leaders, from the technical field, from the Administration of the State. Obviously, this has been an important fault for the work that has come to an end and which, of course, seems to me that these absences cannot be justified in any way and that we cannot do anything other than fail to fail at this institution and the Parliament of Catalonia. Finally, as has already been said, the conclusions adopted by the Committee of Inquiry are the result of a transaction between three political formations, with which we have tried to structure a document of a certain coherence, of a certain linearity. And it's hard for me, I want to recognize it explicitly, that there are considerations from other political groups, such as the Socialist Party or the CUP, that we could..., and that we could gather perfectly, but the process in the configuration of these conclusions has made it difficult. I would like to point out that there are a number of conclusions that we share widely with these political formations. That said, I would like to highlight the fact that it has been completed and that it has allowed the Castor project today not to be locked in a cove or locked in a Vinarós instruction jutjat with little resources to carry its work. If today the Castor project is from the table it is thanks to the work of many people: in the first place, from the Alcanar Assembly, which, in its moment, the Alfons Montserrat as mayor, since 2007, from the first moment there was against, fighting against the project, as also the Government of Catalonia did; as did the companies of the platform, which from the first moment have been doing an indispensable job for the development of the entire work of opposition. Recognise the work of the Observer of the Ebre, a centenary institution of Roquetes, of the Lands of the Ebre, a geological institute that was the only one that was able to warn of the seismic risks that the Castor project could cause. Obviously, also recognize the work of Aplaca, the Observers of Deute, of Xnet, of a lot of social entities that have been working, of technicians like Josep Giné... Recognise the journalistic work of Jordi Marçal – essential – and of Jordi Evole, putting the focus on this project. Recognise the work of the heavyweight syndic, who has had to finish a commendable work, rigorous in defense of the interests of the citizens of the whole country, also from the south, which we sometimes notice missing. Also give thanks to Cecot, a employer who has been at the expense of the interests of consumers and citizens of our country, since she has brought to an end a very effective legal work. And to highlight also the work that has been carried out from various political stages. But you'll let me, briefly, also highlight the work that has been done in this chamber. Someone said: "This committee should be in Madrid. Five years ago he hoped: Madrid did not constitute a commission of inquiry, and certainly we do not expect it. Therefore, it must be acknowledged that from here we have been able to do so, from here we have been willing to investigate. And also acknowledge or highlight that on November 2014 this Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, we asked the Committee on Statutory Guarantees for an opinion on the legality of the royal decree of 2014, which included the compensation of the Castor project. From that opinion, personally – tomorrow it will be five years – I brought to this chamber the proposal of agreement to file an appeal of unconstitutionality, which the year 2017 gave as a result the annulment of several articles of that royal decree of 2014. And we often find the usefulness of this chamber, but it seems to me that in the concrete case of the Castor project we have been able to develop a constructive, positive work in defense of the interests of the citizens of our country. And to end quickly manifesting that we have drawn very many conclusions. The main one: we have to get the resources that have come from the citizen's butxacs to the ACS butxacs..., this is back; we have to get the clearance of responsibilities; we have to get the geological knowledge to increase in order to avoid that in the future induced seismicity is again a problem. And finally, to thank the company and the companies of the commission, especially the groups that we were able to deal with these conclusions, it was not easy, and also to thank the company Irene Fornos and the company Ferran Civit for their work, on the side and working, in order to achieve that, during these fifteen sessions, there were some important conclusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.139.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.140.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.141.0	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of the MP Monica Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.142.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, a greeting also to the people of the territory who are accompanying us today. Just over a year and a half ago, on June 6, 2018, we voted in this plenary for the constitution of the Research Commission of the Castor Project, jointly promoted for the Republican Group and for the Junts Group for Catalonia. Today, we apply ourselves here to vote for the conclusions, after having had fifteen sessions at the end that have allowed us to listen to around one-forty people, among specialists, experts, technicians, witnesses and political leaders, except for José Manuel Soria López, ex-Minister of Industry, Energy and Tourism ; Teresa Ribera Rodríguez, Minister of Economic Transition and Secretary of State of Climate Change, Juan José Durán Valsero, Director of the Department of Geological Resources of the Institute of Geology and Mining of Spain, who have, on two occasions, ignored the petition of this Parliament and of the Presidency of the Castor Commission, in turn, at the will of the groups. The incomparencies of Soria and Ribera have the irresponsibility of the high levels of state at the time of giving explanations about this gas project and, as the sessions have run out, the connivance and complicity of the PP and PSOE governments in this failed project is pointed out. The Administration had to ensure that everything was done correctly and the development of everything folded has shown that precisely the Administration, led by these two political forces, did not do so. The invitation to tender to Escal UGS was made without public competition and, precisely, this was not a company with experience in the sector and with technical and working skills for the duration of the work, but no one took responsibility, not so much to attend to them as to compare when the Catalonian Parliament formally requests it and this is a clear indication of opacity and institutional non-cooperation. From the 11th of October 2018 until the 13th of September 2019, we have been able to carry out an exhaustive analysis of all the cases related to Castor, through the sessions due to term, and from this Faristol, I want to aggravate the work done by President Civic and for all the deputies we have spoken, by the construction of the sessions. Appreciate the explanations of the fellows, of all, despite the fact that some have been little credible, including those of the famous: "I know nothing. Nothing happened. An alarm was created that did not correspond to reality. People got scared for nothing. I also take advantage of the moment to thank the work done for the deputy Ferro, of commons, and Salvadó and Fornos, of the Republican Group, at the time of drawing the compromise conclusions that we entered together and, certainly, girls with rigour. And, obviously, my most sincere thanks to Congressman Narcis Clara, who accompanied me to this committee and who was my support for his science. And thanks also to the Plains of Defense of the Lands of the Seine and the Association of Affections for the Castor Plateau for never failing and for being always pending and for coordinating the city movement. But why did we get here today? The answer is clear, because none of us went overboard, neither to the lands of the Jew nor to the rest of the country, which between September and October 2013, coincided with the first large injection of gas, there were hundreds of terratremols, one of them with a magnitude of 4.2 of the Richter scale. Some terratremols that are produced, most likely, for harmful business planning and for various irregularities. The social alarm did not go mad, but the information there was at that time about what was going on in the terrestrial and maritime plants of that Castor monster was scarcer and, when it began to get it, the suspicions of misguided decisions, deficiencies and possible neglects, both political and business. And do we jump back in? In 1996, the Eurogas company was given a licence to determine whether an old oil field could be suitable as a gas warehouse. Subsequently, the ACS company is responsible for 67_percent of the shares and creates Escal UGS to be responsible for the project. This company requested, with the date 31 of generation of 2006, the concession of exploitation of the Castor and, on May 16, 2008, the state government took the concession. On 23 October 2009, the Secretariat of State for Climate Change formulated the declaration of environmental impact and, on 7 June 2010, the Directorate-General for Energy Policy and Mines granted administrative authorization and recognition of the public ownership of the installations and services necessary for the development of the project. On 5 July 2012, the Subdelegation of the Government to Castelló issued the inn in temporary service and enabled the injection of gas to the Castor, which began on 14 June 2013 of terratremols, despite the fact that the Observer of the Ebra and other organizations had already made explicit that there was a risk of happening at the project phase as in the annexation phase. The document that we are submitting to today's vote is extensive and backslides in a fused and worked way the contributions that were made by three separate parliamentary groups. You couldn't read the opinion published at the BOP, on the 13th, with conclusions and recommendations girls in a strict way, that no opinions, as pointed out today. From Juntes per Catalunya, we note that, after a fortnight of meetings of the Commission of Inquiry into the Castor Project, we are voting for a report of points that expose the political, business, social, environmental and economic divide that it was, it will be Castor for the Lands of the Ebro, for Catalonia and for Spain, with costs of more than 1,350_million euros and a lot of insecurity for people. We were able to prove the irregularities, the poor planning of the project and the wrong decisions that were taken, taking into account incomplete data and contradictions, that were made visible with a series of earthquakes that generated unquestionable damage to the citizen. That these damages should be extinguished and that the Spanish Government should face up to Escal UGS in the total dismantling of Castor without public money, as it does in the face, and for this reason, to a technical audit, as the Greuges Synod has already recommended on various occasions, that I have just put on all the shadows linked to this pharaonic project. An audit with objectives detailed to the conclusions, which must count with organizations or professionals of much recognized value in the construction of plants similar to that of Castor, as well as outstanding scientific and members of various professional colleges of Catalonia involved– geólegs, ambientólegs, engineers of paths, canals and ports and any other that is believed to be opportune. Often, and sometimes so, the Lands of the Ebre we take back doors and headlines for the things that worry and so much the people we live in. And, quite rightly, we are concerned about the firm will to grow, to prosper, to fight and to advance as territories, that, in a proper future, we must become the south of our republic and that, from time to time, we have been the center of the Catalan Countries. We finish today the work done in this committee and I do it with a double honor and a double condition, that of being a deputy and that of being a Jew. The condition of deputy was given to me by the citizens of Baix Penedès, Camp de Tarragona and Terres de l'Ebre through the ballot boxes; the condition of Jewry did not give it to me only the fact of having had the chance to nest, grow, live and develop my life project to Jesus, because being Jewry is not just being of the Terres de l'Ebre, it is not just being, it is feeling, feeling to beat a land, feeling to beat a river with the sweet water of the great poet Gerard Vergés: "Feeling to hit a sea, feeling and claiming. Who was to tell Arthur Blade that the word, "Ebrenc, which I wrote to the decade of the seventy, already included to the DIEC for the brilliant work led by the Fira del Libre ebrenc, would serve us today to be, to feel and to claim a land, a river, a sea, a people that we want to find out in every decision that affects these four counties of the south of the country – Terra Alta, Ribera d'Ebre, Montsia and Baix Ebre, proud to be south and to be cruel. We're there, and we feel, and we fight and demand there, and we want to keep feeling, feeling, beating and claiming. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.143.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry into the Castor Project, taking into account the separate voting petitions which have previously been asked for some of its conclusions. We shall vote, first of all, on the motion for a separate vote from conclusion No. 4.2 and conclusion No. 9.11. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote on these two conclusions begins. These two conclusions were adopted by 110 votes to 20, with no abstentions. And now we vote for recommendation number 11.1–11.1. The vote begins. This recommendation was adopted by 74 votes to 20, with 36 abstentions. And now we vote for recommendation 11.6. The vote begins. This recommendation was approved by 127 votes to three, with no abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the text of the opinion, including the conclusions and recommendations that have not been voted on separately, as we have just done. We therefore vote on the remainder of the opinion. The vote begins. The opinion on the Committee of Inquiry into the Castor Project was adopted by 74 votes to 56, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Thank you very much. We're still on the order of the day. [[Decree-Law No 15/2019 of 26 November 2019 amending Article 13 of Decree-Law No 4/2010 of 3 August 2010 on measures to rationalise and simplify the structure of the general public sector]] [[203-00023/12]] And the fourth point is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 15/2019, of 26 November, for which is modified Article 13 of Decree Law 4/2010, of 3 August, of measures of rationalization and simplification of the structure of the public sector of the Generalitat. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the President's Counsellor will intervene in the first place to explain the reasons for which this Decree has been promulgated. You have the word, so you'll advise it. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.144.0	Good morning, President. MPs, MPs, High Performance Center Branch, let me start my intervention by quickly explaining what it is and what it is doing at the High Performance Center. The CAR is a public law entity affiliated with the General Secretary of Sport and Physical Activity, in the Department of the Presidency. It was created in 1987 and is an institution dedicated to elite sportsmen, recognized for its quality services, with sportsmen and coaches and coaches of the world and with the will to develop the athlete in all its personal dimensions. Similarly, since more than twenty-five years and thanks to the knowledge of CAR professionals, the fact of being considered public administration, with which this implies, and thanks also to their facilities, has supported the process of selecting and promoting internal bodies such as Squadron Mosses, Bombers, Prison Servants, Rural Agents or local police, in all that makes reference to physical tests. The year 2010, with Decree Ill 4/2010, were reworded key aspects of the CAR, which now, at the end of 2019, and the result of the evolution of the local and European legal framework, such as updating. This is why we are proposing today the approval of this new law, which recognizes the competence of the CAR to organize and perform physical and, if necessary, medical tests of the selection processes that I have previously mentioned. In addition, you also foresee that they can give technical support to the courts and selection bodies. In line with the recognition of these new functions, the qualification of the CAR as an appropriate instrument and technical service of the General Administration of Catalonia and of local authorities to bodies and related entities that have the status of contracting authorities is abolished. Why are we pushing for a change in this legislation? The General Administration of the Generality selects all its staff with criteria of objectivity, according to the principles of equality, merit and ability of the seekers, and through public summons. In order to guarantee these criteria, during the last twenty-five years the CAR has worked with the Generality and with the joints and with the locals taking on tasks of organization, reality and technical support for the assessment of physical tests required for access to public office, in all those selection procedures relating to the specific things that require the accreditation of an adequate fitness or physical training for the exercise of the functions to develop from the respect for it. It is the will that these procedures be undertaken, whenever possible, for the same public administrations, ensuring their rigour, objectivity, impartiality and transparency. It should also be noted that the CAR has unique facilities in Catalonia geared to high sport performance, facilities that are ideal for performing massive selection tests and with a multidisciplinary work team, with experience in evaluating and training athletes. The CAR expert in the assessment of physical activity, as well as her legal and public nature, determines her suitability to carry out the assessment of the physical capacity of the candidates. Alternatively, it must also be assessed that the participation of the CAR in the configuration and organization of physical evidence of the selected procedures, as well as the technical support that facilitates the courts or selection bodies, are tasks or activities that are to be Romanesque and exercised within the organizational scope of the same Administration, as the intervention of the private sector could compromise the principles that must inform any procedure of access to the public service. For all that has been stated, this proposed decree recognizes the CAR's tasks and recognizes the tasks that the CAR undertakes in relation to the procedures for access to the public and internal promotion function that require assessing the physical fitness of the candidates. Last September it was published to the DOGC the creation of 750 places of Mossos d'Esquadra and 250 places of Cos de Bombers of the Generalitat de Catalunya. The selection procedures for the occupation of these places require the assessment of the physical fitness of the candidates; therefore, the participation of the CAR in these places is necessary. Therefore, it is essential, given the existence of legally established terms during the call, to be able to carry out the tests in the assigned months, with the will to be able to complete with the scheduled calendar in the calls of Mossos d'Esquadra and Bombers. As a guide, it respects the volume of management that involves a summons of Mossos d'Esquadra and the time involved in its development, it can be noted that in the later summons it is necessary to present a total of 9,283 requests for participation. I'm done. In summary, modify the way in which the Public Administration handles this task to the CAR. We did it before for a management order procedure and now we will do it through arrangements, because it will already be part of the CAR's own functions. For all that I have exposed, I ask Members and Members to be able to give green light to this law we propose today, so as to speed up and improve public management in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.145.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now it is a turn of intervention of parliamentary groups and sub-groups to stand up to the decree. And it began in the first place, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Deputy Javier Rivas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.146.0	Thank you, President. « Consellera, MPs, MPs, last night, as I read and analyzed the decree, I don't know why I remembered the film Novecento, that old film by Bernardo Bertolucci which is a classic; I even came to think about starting this intervention as the film begins, didn't I? "Verdi has died, but since I am not Rigoletto and I have no tenor voice, we will try to be abstract and propository with this decree that they present to us. We're being offered... I am already telling you that we will not oppose this decree, because we understand that it is a decree of utmost necessity, but they will allow us to do a little bit of abstraction from why we are here and how we have arrived. We have been asking for years from our group to increase the staffs of Mossos, forest agents, Firemen..., in short, we don't need to repeat ourselves, do we? Two months ago, we finally got them approved in an amount that is probably already insufficient initially, but, well, it's a principle, of which we all have to congratulate, right? But then, and only then, the Government realizes that physical proof, which is imperative and exclusive..., the current legal framework is not prepared, and we are now in a hurry to make this legislative amendment through a decree. Historically, and certainly, I will not repeat myself, the CAR de Sant Cugat is a reference; nothing bad to say, absolutely nothing of the CAR de Sant Cugat. It is not his purpose, the main goal, to do this, but to treat elite sport. But, well, it seems to us right – so far it has always been – that, if there can be a synergy in the use of public resources, then it was done, perfectly. But we are now in Europe and things have changed. The transposition of the European directives in the Public Sector Contracts Act now prevents us from doing what we had historically done. And for that they propose an ad hoc legislative amendment, so that we can continue to do what we have always done. We'll agree. But my reflection is on why Europe has changed this, isn't it? And I'll set an example that has absolutely nothing to do with the CAR, huh? I'll set a hyperbolic example, won't I? What's that supposed to mean? And, I repeat, it doesn't mean anything with the CAR, but we have to have a long look and think a little bit abstract. Let us imagine an example of a premise that in Catalonia we are all aware that there is a shortage of shelter; okay, we will all agree. Premise 2: The Generalitat has powers to develop sheltered housing. The conclusion we could reach is that the Generalitat has to buy a concrete, a truck, a staff, put a construction company... And Europe is telling us that that's not so; that, the day we need something, there are a lot of private companies that will compete in price, in ideas, in resources, and that will make costs cheaper and the end result much better. "Counsellor, sometimes I get the feeling that we are doing it backwards from what the EU says. What we're doing is forcing legislation to keep the way we always do. And we'll see how it ends, because in the end this duality of public/private, so, I charge you without public attendance, an order I suppose more than fifteen_ thousand_euros, but then it's a trading company and that will have to be billed. What I do advance is that from the Citizens' Group we will follow up on how all this is being managed. You are always telling us: "This comes from Europe, which is the evolution of legislation, by trial/error, from the time of the Greeks. You're always telling us that you're independent but that you want to remain European, aren't you? I've never understood it, because it's a little bit like an oxymoron, right? I mean, you're telling us that you can take it well, even be in solidarity with a Romanian of Timisoara, with a Portuguese of the Algarve, with a French of Savoie, but you can't, in any way, understand whether with a Aragon of Huesca, with a bat of Eagles or with an Asturian of Gijón. What you're showing with this decree, I think it's going a little bit along that line, isn't it? They always want to maintain ways that have been traditional and that we have to change and we have to evolve, don't they? Perhaps you want to remain the Berlinghieri family of the twentieth century, don't you? What I do see is like the end of El Gatopardo's film, when Prince Salina walks along the shore of the sea, he knows it's a period end, he knows it's a cycle end, and what he's perging is like making everything change for nothing to change. And this world needs to change many things, "adviser. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.147.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.148.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all; good morning, counselors, government advisors, people who accompany us. We'll split the intervention into two parts. One, to announce that we will give our vote in favor of the validation of this decree. We believe that there is a legal, administrative reflection on the relationship between the Government of the Generality and the CAR of Sant Cugat. Therefore, I believe that we are obliged, if we want to give course to the physical tests that are to be made of the more than a thousand places that will be called, and also those that are called from then on..., therefore, there is not much feeling to pose in question who is to make these physical tests or medical tests, when the time comes, if it is near. But we will also make a more political reflection, taking also the thread from which the Councillor of the Presidency commented, on the import of the Centre d'Alt Rendiment, of the CAR de Sant Cugat, and also the import of the export world at a time, more than that, in which we are processing the new Law of Sport. We all highlight the importance of physical activity and sport in Catalonia, we all highlight the importance of CAR in the promotion of income sport, internationally recognized, recognized at our home many years ago. But there is also an important element of criticism that we want to make to the government and that we would also transfer to the rest of the parliamentary groups to try to put-it solution in the proper presuppositions of 2020, but also to the new Llei de l'esport, but also in the future presuppositions, not only of the year you see, but more there. And it's that, as much as we say that the sport sector is a priority, we've explained it since 2010, its assumption has been explained a 34_per_cent, and, as much as we say that Sant Cugat's CAR is important to promote income sport and to train our young athletes, we've explained it a 51_per_cent since 2010. We can hardly do income activity, formative activity with our athletes, we can be international referents, if in those structures, if in those foundational pillars of the sport, and in this case of income, we retaliate the economic contribution a 50_per_cent. Therefore, we are in favour of this amendment which will end with the modification of the 2017 Law of Contracts, which was already coming from the European directives and which we now need to update, so that it is not already considered appropriate, clarify functions, and also define the CAR's own functions already as the entity that will make these physical tests. But we cannot forget the most important, and they are the functions for which and the objectives for which we created the CAR of St. Cugat. And it was to make a good formation, of first division – if I am allowed the simile sport – in the performance sport of our sportsmen, from the base to the adult stage. Therefore, we announce the vote in favour of the validation of the decree. We owe it, if we allow the Government, and also the parliamentary groups, to review what the CAR has done so far, to give a new boost to the CAR, to recover the funding lost so far, and, obviously, also in the framework of giving a new boost to the Catalan sports sector. Therefore, this is our position. And, obviously, we'll give it support, as we said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.149.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.150.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, well, our parliamentary group will support this proposal for this decree, obviously, therefore, because we understand that it is produced by a situation of change in European legislation, which requires that this change should take place in the long term. This recognition of the CAR's tasks to perform the selection procedures of the staff published on the CAR's tasks to perform the selection procedures. Let's not get to the detail. There's work to be done. That's what it takes. We also take advantage of, as has been done in other interventions, to put in value both the installations as the task that is done to the CAR of Sant Cugat in the elite sport, and also because of the need that already we have, right? , a public right-wing entity that has these installations, that develops this task, so we think it's good that we can also recognize it and ask it to do other tasks, such as physical evidence in staff selection, as other bands have done historically. To put in store, too, the moment when it is produced – it has been said by other groups – is true that we have the feeling that it is a little correct, isn't it? If the call for seats has already been approved a few months ago, it is now correct to make this change...., but in any case, therefore, we will push it forward. Yes..., some discrepancy with the statement of reasons that is made in the law decree, where it is said..., is explained by the creation of new places and explains that we are here because the Generality has had to apply some policies of conflict of..... and by the decree of the law, it is said that we believe that we are the task that is done in detail. There is a lot of work to do on the expense during the last decade, as if there was no alternative. We believe that there is an alternative. That is to say, the General has not applied for two years some austerity policies because there was no more rule, because it was an empire of not knowing where, but because there was a government that entered 2010 with this proposal, making the flag of austerity. In any case, we do not share it, but we believe that this is the responsibility. For what they do to the nine places they believe, our group has also said on other occasions, so, logically, we celebrate that there are new places both of Bombers and of Mossos d'Esquadra, because we understand that it is a necessity to which it has long been necessary to give an answer. Firefighters have been eight years without a call for seats. We also take advantage of this to put on the table the claims relating to foreign hours. Fires last year made half a million foreign hours, Mossos also; and we also believe that at Mossos it is necessary that, while these nine places are not effective which we are talking about, these foreign hours may be available. And finally, I think we don't have to forget, and the decree doesn't refer to it, and it's only justified for the creation of nine places of Mossos and Bombers..., and I think we don't have to forget the compromise of creating nine places of Rural Agents, concretely, fifty-five places of Rural Agents provided for in the Strategic Platform of the Rural Agents Cos, which we understand will also be created in breu and that they will also require CAR's services to be able to make the selected processes. Therefore, our group will support it. And more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.151.0	Thank you, Congressman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Vidal Aragonese deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.152.0	Good morning, all of you. First of all, we would like to try to situate what this parliamentary subgroup considers to be the origin of the discussion we have today, of the need – if it exists – to validate a law decree and, above all, to situate what and who generated the problem that we now have to solve. This parliamentary subgroup, the origin, we place it in the Law of contracts of the public sector, which decided to change the consideration of appropriate media. When some and some of us denounced what was the content of Article 31 and Article 32 of the Law on Public Sector Contracts in relation to the appropriate means, we already announced that what would in fact be supposed to be, in some cases, make it difficult for us to use appropriate means, and, in most cases, to generate a reality in which it was not possible. Some and some of us have already had exaggerations and exaggerations when we did this characterization and now, sadly, we find ourselves with what we find ourselves with. And, by the way, we also want to move another idea. The Law on Public Sector Contracts is subject to transposition of a directive, but the directive did not exactly state that Article 31 and Article 32 had to meet the requirements which subsequently ended up being set up, and did not limit the appropriate means in the form which the State legislation subsequently laid down. From that moment on, we can say that it has a date, which is November 9, 2017, so it is difficult or impossible for most assumptions to use the appropriate means on the part of the Administration. So far, the normal thing is that as of November 2017, they see the normal change, they have instituted..., on the part – and we want to differentiate, here, responsibilities –, in our opinion, from the Department of Interior, with a communication to the CAR, with a perspective that is to continue developing physical evidence in this installation, and that at that moment valued if it was opportune or not opportune to start the normal change. But we wanted to fix how the Department of the Interior is responsible and not the Department of the Presidency, not because we have an element of greater sympathy for the Department of the Presidency – one thing is the security policies, but we are not talking about this – just because we think that, obviously, who is asking this activity to be developed by the CAR must be the active actor in demanding that this change of legal nature be valued by the CAR as regards similar means, which can no longer be done to incorporate what is new activities, which is to be a continuation of what had been developed over the past years. At the CAR, it has been many years since physical tests developed when we have oppositions of this natural. That said, the other question we raise is whether this standard change is necessary or not. So, from our point of view, it's necessary. It was necessary at the opportune time, which was November 2017, or as of November 2017, and it is also necessary at the present time. That's right, we don't want to..., value two different questions. The first is whether or not processing was necessary through a law decree; the element of extraordinary processing and urgency. So we are aware that, obviously, we have an approximate date, around June 20, 2020, because this selection process is over, and that, therefore, the evidence is girls, and that, therefore, now a standard change in ordinary processing could have been a difficulty; but we also want to point out that we have a lot of doubts that we are actually ahead of a situation that is fixed as a possible process of decreeing the law. We wanted to move it like this. That's right, we don't get a formal theme, but we get a background theme. And in the matter of funds, what we want to highlight is that if today we do not validate the decree, with which we could find ourselves, is that, from the same Catalan administration, someone wants to suggest that if we do not want to do so with the CAR, we will have to look for a third private. And it's there, obviously, where they'll never find us, in the third private. For one band, because we think we have to take advantage of all the expertise and accumulated experience of the CAR, in addition, in these concrete tests, because it is done by a public administration or a public sector body; and, for another, also for the analysis done by the same advisor. The councillor told us, when she spoke, at last, of objectivity and impartiality, that it was much safer to complete these two elements than a public sector body and not a private company. And we, without being used as a precedent until today, agree, in this case, with the councillor. And as long as the intervention of the Public Administration is more necessary to guarantee these requirements, we will not have them guaranteed with the intervention of private companies. And these two elements lead us to take a vote on the forbearance, which would, in any case, serve to validate the decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.153.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of MP Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.154.0	Thank you, President. Parliamentarians, Members, Councillors... Well, the decree, literally, marks, supposedly, the compliment of European legislation, in concrete terms, a directive that speaks about the appropriate media. But he talks about his own media. Perar de Catalunya, from MP Esperanza Garcem, treated as a curious fact that in the reading of the report that the CAR makes to us appears another motif that to us has filled us with satisfaction, that is the compliment of the Decree 4/2010, of rationalization of the public sector, that it is given to beginnings of 2010 that, before a situation of economic crisis, before a situation bare of deficit, that they had to take advantage of the resources are the propitious, it had to resize the public sector, and not only undertaken, but also managed, and they had to take advantage of these resources. What's that supposed to mean? That the change of use of this CAR, the possibility that the CAR completes all the access and physical tests of the Mosso d'Esquadra, Bombers or Rural Agents, could already have made with this decree of 2010 of the Government, in its moment, of Mariano Rajoy. But it was not so, and we find ourselves with this decree that has the emperor, more than anything else, of a European directive. We, of course, say yes to this decree, but it is true that we are far short of the fact that precisely a measure which could have already been brought to an end, in terms of compromises with this deficiency compliment, and which, moreover, has given us during these years a series of initial public expenditure details, which came very closely linked to the Mossos, which would finish the physical tests between these CAR installations, so it was not done. And what was done, above all, is to reduce the conditions of these professions and little public sector redemption. And actually, that's what the data confirms, isn't it? Between 2010 and 2012 it was a compliment of cost content, but it was not so in the following legislatures and, moreover, they formed part of the successive governments the same parties that form part of it now, of this present, and that propose to us this approval of the decree. Despite that, welcome. They come a little late, a few years later, but we'll give it a lift.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.155.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Jordi Albert. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.156.0	Thank you, President. Advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies, workers and workers of Parliament..., also greet the director of the CAR, Mr. Ramon Terrassa, who is here today at the guest stand. Well, from this point of view, it seems to me that all the parliamentary groups that have preceded me in the word have also clearly explained which is the plainly pleated which addaris I am assailants of the Parliament. Tambara, d'mmern, en em, trammitatieueute labore per fee la motivation. In other words, we will give support and give all of us, in the sense that, in the end, we are adjusting a regulation; this Decree Law 4/2010, of August 3, we are adjusting it in this Article 13, which is the regulation of the CAR, in two very concrete apartments, which are the 3rd and the 4th. And what we do is that in paragraph 3 we define exactly the object for which, at the CAR, it can be done this task which is, in fact, the physical evidence of these summonses and, if you look at it, also the medics. And then, in the 4th, that we eliminate the final part respect to the affectation to the Administration of the Generalitat as it is already appropriate, on the basis also to which it determines the state regulations, the Law of contracts of the public sector, the Law 9/2017, of 8 November 2017, which has been approved, and that hence there must have been this adaptation in this decree law, this amendment that we will vote on today. This law of contracts – I say this because there is a certain impreciseness in some of the words that preceded me – is the one that transposes the European directives. It is not that this decree transposes these directives, but that the law of state contracts transposes these European directives. And, therefore, what we're going to do today is make sure that the CAR can finish these physical tests. And it is very important that we do this, among other questions because, in effect, it affects when there is a summoning of objections in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, but also in the special bodies of Bombers, as well as in the Rural Agents, as well as the local police, as well as the Servants Penitentiaries. Therefore, there are several affected bodies. For us, it is important to note that the CAR, which has been developing this task since 1992 and continues to develop it. Why? Because everyone has already agreed that their task is appropriate, it is appropriate, it is professional and, in fact, the Centre d'Alt Rendiment Esportiu de Sant Cugat is one of those references that cross borders, and that it has allowed many sportsmen and many sportsmen, some of whom here are insured with deputies and deputies in this legislature – and I will mention the company Núria Picas, which I was talking about –, they are now competing at a high level of competition all over the world and, therefore, also bearing the name of our country. In any of the areas, we agree with the proposal. We want you to continue to manage the CAR, which is a public right entity, subject, its activity, to the private right, and which is regulated by the regulation of public service entities. And, therefore, we want this modification to go forward, among other questions, because we consider that it is, in effect, the CAR that has to finish these physical and, if scale, medical tests. Therefore, it will have the support of the Republic Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.157.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Tarrés has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.158.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, public to accompany us. Let me personally welcome the director of the CAR of Sant Cugat, Mr. Ramon Terrassa, and to whom accompany him, an ex-company, Xavier Bàlius, the head of the Unit of Sciences, Medicine and Technology of the same CAR. Before entering the matter, Mr. Ordeig, as the CAR user, is not concerned that I think he will not lose the dynamism and will not lose the leadership that has always held the Centre d'Alt Rendiment, a Centre d'Alt Rendiment that, yes, as you say, has lowered the assumption a lot, but that he has tried to compensate with the internationalization of his use, which has also involved an increase in the billing. We hope that the economic recovery will also bring us more investments in the CAR of Sant Cugat. And, entering into the matter, the standard mark which inserts the proposal before it is configured, as has already been said, for Decree Law 4/2010, of August 3, where in its moment were reworded aspects of the CAR that now, the result of the evolution of the local and European legal mark, can be updated. In particular, the object of the debate is the modification of Article 13 of the law that we have discussed, which in its point 3 states that the CAR has the condition of appropriate instrumentation and technical service of the Administration. The object and content of the new proposal is to recognise to the CAR the power to perform physical and/ or medical tests and technical support to the courts or selection bodies. In consistency with this recognition with the functions of the entity, the qualification of the CAR as an instrument and technical service is deleted and the following wording is proposed: "In collaboration with the Department of Administration of the Government of Catalonia or of the local authority competent to process the corresponding public summons, and prior presuppositional endowment, correspond to the CAR the organization and the realization of physical and, if appropriate, medical evidence, and the technical support to the courts or selection bodies for the evaluation of the results of the tests in question, in the framework of the selection processes for access to the condition of functioning or the function of the General Administration. It may be that this function is also extensive to any internal promotion process of the working staff. Thus, as has already been said, it is also proposed to amend paragraph 4 to the effects of deleting the last incis, which refers to the performance of the CAR's services as well as to the administration of the Generality and its public sector. This decree articulates the participation of the CAR in the selected procedures and internal promotion of the specific functional units that require to value physical training. It is, therefore, a measure adopted in the exercise of the power of self-organisation of the Generality, as set out in Article 150 of the Statute of Autonomy. The proposed change has to be time-consuming above all to continue to ensure the objective criteria and basic principles of equality, merit and capacity for access to public office. During the past twenty-five years, the CAR has worked with the different departments of the Administration, taking on the tasks of organization, realization and technical support for the evaluation of physical tests required for access to public office to specific bodies such as Bombers, Mossos d'Esquadra, staff of Prison Service, Rural Agents or local police. The facilities of the CAR, the multidisciplinary team, the experience and the acquired expert, as well as their public legal nature, determine their suitability for carrying out these tasks. The new functional configuration attached to the CAR will enable the entity to continue to participate in the execution of the selection procedures for functional or functional conditional access as an entity to which this competence has been expressly attributed. This new configuration will allow horizontal cooperation between public administrations. The reason for the extraordinary and urgent need to validate this decree in the importance of being able to guarantee the compliment of the scheduled schedule for which it does the selection procedures currently underway, such as access to the category of squad move/move starting on February 15, 2020 and ending on June 21. It is for all these reasons that we will vote in favour of the validation of the decree proposed for the government. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.159.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]] MPs, MPs, please, if you can speed up the journey to your respective seats... Well, let's proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 15/2019. As you know and as stipulated in Rule 158.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the affirmative votes agree that they are in favour of the validation of the decree and the negative votes, in favour of the derogation. The vote begins. Decree Law 15/2019_has been validated by 89 votes in favour, against, 40 abstentions and a Member present who has not voted. A cop validated, close to asking the chamber if any group wants to be processed as the bill. [[Pause.]] Don't you? So, we can definitely give the Decree Law 15/2019 for validation. We suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.160.0	It's part of the session. [[Proposal for a law to recognize the right of escort and therapeutic children to victims of male violence]] [[202-00033/12]] The fifth item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Institutional Affairs on the proposal for a law on the recognition of the right to accompany escort and therapeutic children to victims of male violence. This debate will be substantial, in accordance with Article 123.3 and Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to say to you that the rapporteur has given up making use of the intervention round to present the work of the committee and the committee. So let us proceed first to give the word to the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, to explain its position on the committee's opinion and to defend its particular vote. According to what the Bureau agreed, and since the committee voted against all the text, the debate on the reserved items will be substantiated, if necessary, in the event that the particular vote is approved and the text of the proposal is returned. The remaining groups and sub-groups will then speak, to vote on the particular vote, for five minutes and two minutes and a half for the sub-group. It has the word, in the first place, Deputy Naomi of the Street. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] For a 15-minute time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.161.0	Yes, President, can I have the watch?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.162.0	Yes, yes, now the pose.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.163.0	Thank you. Good afternoon, first of all, to greet the absent Government: hello, no Government. So, too, something that surprises us: the little influx into this Chamber. We're talking about a law to protect victims of sexist violence and all those who run to get out in the photo, behind a banner... because today there are no photos and they are not. Well, sadly I find myself in this Faristol to defend the particular vote of my parliamentary group, to support the whole of the article and the reserved amendments of the Proposition of Law of the recognition of the right of escort and therapeutic dogs to accompany victims of macho violence. And I do, because we are completely convinced of the convenience and the need for the adoption of a law that seeks to recognize and equate dissuasive dogs, used as assisted therapy in cases of macho violence, with guide dogs, so that users can have free circulation and access, accompanied by these dogs, in the roads, transports, institutions and public establishments. Unlike safety dogs, whose worked instinct is that of prey or attack, the instinct with which they work in the training of dogs for survivors of male violence is that of protection. In no case are they attack dogs, because their function is to block and repel, so that the victim gives time to run away or call the police. These dogs also have a therapeutic function. Joint work and training with the dog empowers women, fear decreases, just as with anxiety levels, as their presence allows them to get out more protected and feel strengthened their security at the emotional level. Initially, the law introduced by Citizens consisted of only four articles, which recognized the right to accompany protective and therapeutic dogs to victims of male violence who fulfilled the requirements to have them, matching the rights and obligations of the possession of guide dogs for persons with visual disabilities, so that they could freely access any space or building with their dog. However, after going through the presentation phase..., well, and the appearances in the presentation, we then tabled amendments to our initial text to answer questions that were raised to us. First, it was economic resources. The training of these dogs currently costs between three and six thousand euros, and not all women could afford them, thus having a barrier to access due to a lack of economic resources. We have therefore introduced an amendment to enable administrations to provide social benefits in order to extend and facilitate access to this resource. Secondly, another issue that we were asked was to ensure by law the welfare of the animal, always keeping it in optimal conditions of well-being, safety and hygiene. To respond, we proposed the inclusion of a specific article. Finally, we were also advised to include the certification obligations of the training centres, and this was reflected in our amendments. Everything has been a hindrance in the handling of this law, and you, who are Members of Parliament, will know what a legislative dossier is. But I will read them their description, so that those who have not been part of a paper of law and do not know what it is for, then, that they may know it. And I literally read his description: "The legislative dossiers contain a compendium of documentation relating to the proposals for legislation that are being processed in Parliament and are updated until the relevant law is passed. They are intended to provide Members and parliamentary groups with information on the legal framework, related previous parliamentary procedures and bibliography on the subject being legislated. They also provide comparative legislation and other information of particular interest on the subject. You will see: this law has not had a legislative dossier. Since 6 March, when the amendment was discussed in its entirety – that is, when it was admitted into the Chamber – this law has not had a legislative dossier. There is no known precedent in the history of this Parliament. Members have not had that information. And it was not until the amendment procedure was completed, that is, when the law was already seen for sentencing, when that dossier was published, when it no longer served anything. An anomaly, not to say a total irregularity, which has stolen and concealed relevant information from Members in order to contrast the erroneous information that was given in the debate to the whole. For example, Congresswoman Beatriz Silva, of the Socialist Party, literally stated that this initiative does not have the support of any organization of victims of male violence and we do not have reports of public bodies that endorse it. That's what he said. Since there was no legislative dossier to verify that these claims were wrong, I will read the documents of up to four public bodies that have endorsed the implementation of this measure in other autonomous communities, thanks to the Escan project. First of all, we have the Observatory against Gender Violence of the General Council of the Judiciary, which literally says: "It is a project of psychological recovery, protection and defence of women victims of gender violence, a permanent tool of defense and protection, increasing their security conditions and becoming a valuable instrument for the psychological recovery of these victims. In addition, it considers it innovative and beneficial, the project. The second, the Murcia High Court of Justice, where, by the way, this measure has been implemented for a long time, which literally says: "It is a favorable tool and a valuable tool for psychological recovery, as well as for the protection of women victims of gender-based violence. I'm on it. The research group « Personality and health: an intercultural and gender perspective, from the University of Murcia, which expresses its support for the project of psychological recovery, protection and defence of women victims of gender-based violence, through trained dogs: « We consider that, through the implementation of this project, victims of gender-based violence are provided with a permanent tool for defence and protection, increasing their security conditions and becoming a valuable tool for the psychological recovery of victims. And lastly – and not to saturate them, because it could be like this all afternoon – here we have the recognition of the Unit against Violence against Women, of the Delegation of the Government of Spain in Murcia. Deputy Silva, you said... [[Greetings.]] Mrs Silva, you said that your parliamentary group had not found anyone to endorse this measure. Well, it must have been that you didn't look for much, because, without going any further, the Gavá City Hall, where the Socialist Party has been ruling since the year 79, together with the Improrec association, in April 2018 launched a project for victims of sexist violence to be able to resort to a trained dog. And I'm going to read you textual statements by Gemma Badia, Councillor of Equality in the City of Gavá – not Citizens, but Socialist Party – to whom I congratulate personally for having carried this project forward and who said textually: "One of the great problems that a victim of sexist violence presents with a protection order – without it, we don't talk anymore – is that he is afraid to leave the house. She is a person who is not empowered, who is afraid to meet her assailant and sees her life very fucked up when she can go shopping, do business, or go looking for her child at school; everything that is part of a normal life and that she cannot do because of panic. The dog, therefore, is very important when it comes to providing security and trust to the victim. [[Greetings.]] As you can see, misinformation and ignorance have surrounded this law, although there is empirical evidence to support the effectiveness of this measure. And we have had in this parliamentary seat the MUM association, the Escan project and the Moritz Association, explaining their experience with these dogs, to whom, by the way, I take advantage to greet and send a strong hug. And then they will hear, by the mouth of other speakers, that only one association supports this law, because for these parliamentary groups, if the association is not Catalan of pure strain, for it seems that it does not exist; its opinion, its experience and its testimony does not count. And thanks to the speeches in the debate on 6 March, we were able to know that Montse Pineda, vice president of the National Council of Dones, whom we had here yesterday, talking about victims of male violence, had taken off the phone to call and convince at least one group, to vote against the admission to the process of this law. And in the sitting paper you can read that Congresswoman Silva claimed to have received the call from Montse Pineda to explain to her that she was worried that this proposal would be approved because there was no evidence that it would be beneficial. Did you not see enough of the results that were being achieved in all the projects initiated in other parts of Spain? Did not the support received from the various agencies, such as those I have just read to you, seem sufficient? Or was he really concerned that the initiative did not start from a specific entity or from another parliamentary group? [[Greetings.]] In 2018, the People's Party voted in favour of a similar proposal in Aragon. However, here he signed a document, together with the rest of the parliamentary groups, calling for this particular vote to be prevented from being debated today in this plenary. And I'm still trying to figure out why they did it. Because, in fact, it was the People's Party that, in Murcia, promoted the convention that has made this measure a reality in the region. And the delegate of the Government of Castile and León, when the PP was in the Government of Spain, also promoted several similar projects in this community. And in Andalusia the PSOE promoted an agreement with the University of Cadiz to carry out a similar project. And in Navarre PSOE, Bildu, Podemos, Geroa Bai and Popular Party – eye – joined together to present a similar measure. It is a pity that some, once they have reached the Government, have paralyzed her. And, without going any further, a few days ago, all parties in the Andalusian parliamentary arch voted in favour of a proposal calling for these dogs to be regulated, including the People's Party, Podemos and the Socialist Party. And do you know which party you didn't vote for? [[Pause.]] What? What game? [[Pause.]] Vox. This party which you do not fail to describe as the enemy of women's rights and freedoms, which, I see, there I give you the reason, but it is that, at the time of truth, here in Catalonia you are going to behave even worse than them, because they at least abstained, you are going to vote against it. [[Greetings.]] Members of the People's Party, Podemos and the Socialist Party, are Andalusian women different from Catalan women? Why in other parts of Spain do their parties support the implementation of this measure, and here they deny that right to survivors of male violence? Look, from the nationalist parties in the government I expect nothing, because we already know that they are interested in everything going wrong so that people can buy them the populist discourse that to solve things we have to leave Spain. But from those who fill their mouths with which to protect survivors, what I hope is that they do not close their eyes to the evidence. And in the face of an unjustifiable and unjustifiable social scourge such as macho violence, which calls into question the essential principle of equality between women and men, the public authorities have an obligation to move from protest to proposal and to adopt, with the utmost speed and diligence, concrete measures to prevent further killings and to remedy the damage caused by such violence. And one of those measures, the effectiveness of which has been overwhelmingly demonstrated, is the right to dispose of a dissuasive or therapeutic dog, and that it is not discriminatoryly prevented from accessing them when accompanying women victims of sexist violence in various areas of public life; a measure that is being implemented in many localities, but that is being met with many obstacles because it lacks regulation, which is what we bring here today. The municipalities and associations in Spain are taking initiatives in this regard warn that the absence of regulation limits them to implementing a measure that allows victims to feel safe and protected by improving their self-esteem. Because the users of the dogs are prevented from entering with their dogs in public transport, in shopping centers and even in the courts, where they have to go to testify or testify against their aggressors. And any measures that bring a benefit and stop a situation of risk to women must be incorporated into existing legislation, with the aim of improving the instruments necessary to stop any situation of danger. And it is also that these pets not only increase the protection of women victims by acting as a mere protective barrier between possible dangers, but also facilitate, with the emotional bond they generate, a greater and faster comprehensive recovery of the victims. And until a few years ago Catalonia had always been a pioneer in social progress. However, for a few years here we are staying in the queue of Spain. And we cannot allow the train of social progress in social matters to pass by. And that's exactly what's going to happen here if we let this law pass. And finally I would like to read a small fragment of a survivor's testimony, which prompted a collection of signatures for this law to be pushed in Navarre, hoping to remove some consciences: « I was afraid to put a_foot on the street, to take walks near my home. Sugi is a protective bitch who is trained to calm me down and defend me in case of aggression. Without Sugi I wouldn't dare go out on the street. So having her with me has been a real liberation. However, there are many places that if I go with Sugi they won't let me in. They won't let me ride with her to a bus or into a mall. Politicians slapped me in the back and didn't sign my petition. They stand behind a banner when they kill someone, but those we really ask for help close our eyes and look away. And, deputies, in Catalonia there are many victims like Silvia, and in Citizens we do not want to look elsewhere. And I ask you not to do so either, because you are still in time to reconsider your sense of vote. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.164.0	Thank you, Mrs. De la Calle. The rest of the parliamentary groups will then intervene to establish their position. And in the first place has the word the deputy Beatriz Silva, of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.165.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. When this Parliament debated this initiative on 6 March last, from my parliamentary group we have already expressed our reluctance to a text that was not endorsed by specialists, entities or victims of macho violence. Nor for a technical study that values its impact or an economic memory, and it was not recommended by the specialists we consulted before positioning us. However, since it was a priority issue such as the fight against gender-based violence, an issue that has become a major challenge for all administrations, we believe that it should be assessed, that specialists should be heard, victims who could have been benefited by such a measure, but also experiences that could provide different points of view. Personally, I participated in all the sessions of this paper and also met with individuals and entities who had not been summoned but who contacted when they learned that this bill was being processed. After listening and appreciating the various appearances, my group voted against the opinion and the amendments tabled, because that was what the various people who appeared recommended: that it was not appropriate to take forward this proposal of law. Only one of the entities who went through the paper saw it advisable, but had no study to support it, and, in fact, had only worked with three victims; three victims with whom we also did not have the opportunity to talk. I'm not making anything up, because the audios are available to anyone who wants to listen to them. The aim of this paper was to demonstrate the effectiveness of having an escorted and/or therapeutic dog to avoid the macho violence that many women suffer and to remedy its damage. But it turned out from the appearances that it is not only not a timely measure, but part of a wrong approach to what gender-based violence means, but also to what an escorted dog is. Entities that have worked with thousands of victims of macho violence in recent years have stated that they do not have the idea that an escorted dog could be useful to women who live in very precarious situations, on floors of thirty square meters, which already struggle to take care of their own children, as well as to assume that of a dog of these characteristics. Dog trainers did not understand the proposal. They said that an escort dog has nothing to do with an escort dog, that both types of dog are not comparable and that an escort dog is also difficult to control and can become a danger to the woman herself, to her sons and daughters. In fact, the correct term was not ‘hound escort, but ‘hound protection or ‘defence, a type of animal for which a special license is required and which requires psychological and emotional stability which, according to psychologists who appeared, does not have a victim of sexist violence; dogs which, in fact, can only have the security forces, but which this bill did not consider at the time of drafting. From a gender perspective, the specialists, some of them authors of the reports on which we base the legislative activity of the Equality Commission, said that such a proposal would be to place responsibility on the victim and not on the aggressor, it would be equivalent to giving him a weapon to defend himself, something that runs counter to the spirit of our laws on equality and the eradication of male violence, because it is the police, justice and society that have an obligation to protect him and because we cannot bear that responsibility in itself. Other issues also emerged in the appearances, such as that it is contrary to the universal spirit that a law should have, to the extent that it should be useful for a whole collective and then applied in a particular way. This proposal is quite the opposite, a particular measure that is intended to be applied to a whole group; a measure that, in addition, if proven beneficial, that there were impact studies, statistics, would be very expensive and difficult to implement. What would we do with the dogs once they had fulfilled their mission? Would we sacrifice them? Because what they explained to us in the paper is that every animal is trained for a certain person, and it also takes two and a half years to prepare it, and we're talking about thousands of victims. There were many arguments we received – the audios are available for anyone who wants to listen to them – so I will just reiterate that we will vote against them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of Congresswoman Susanna Segovia, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.167.0	Yes, thank you. I wanted to make a little history, too, didn't I? , from real to above this proposal of the law, when up. Interestingly, it's the debate before March 8th. At that time, he had presented a message to the totality, to which we did not think to give support, because we believed that precisely any measure aimed at defending and supporting victims of male violence must, as at least, be debated. So we even talked to other groups so that the message was removed to the full, as it finally happened, and that's why we could also discuss this bill's proposal. Especially for me, as a Member, she was my first experience in a piece of law; all the time we've been carrying so far, it's the first time. And I went there with gain; I went there with gain to listen and learn. And I went to all the ponies – all of them. I think it's worth saying that whoever didn't go is Mrs. Naomi on the street, and maybe she didn't have time to listen to the audios, because it was a lot of hours of audios. So maybe if you were there at the police station, you'd know what all the people and entities who showed up have said. But he wasn't there, he couldn't ask the contestants, he couldn't discuss the arguments they were giving, he couldn't tell the people and entities that they were showing up, everything that you're telling us right now, and that we're insisting, you haven't said in all the hours of correspondence we've had all this time – you haven't said anything about what you said. The person who came from the Escan de Múrcia project, who we listened to and with a lot of interest and with a lot of attention, told us that yes, they were doing it, but that in one year there were eight women – eight women. I don't know how many communities have already regulated this, how many places have been regulated, a project has been made, how many places has a Male Violence Law been modified to include a concrete measure. I might be able to explain, but I don't think there's much room for regulation. What there are are projects, yes, that work with donations, that do pilot cases, that do an absolutely limited follow-up to concrete cases: eight to Murcia, three – we were now told by Congresswoman Silva – in the other case of Lleida; already, nothing more. I went there to listen, I went there to learn, but it's that, I'm sorry, neither did the people quoted by City see that there was a need for a reform of the Male Violence Law to add to it; not that the project was not interesting or the proposal, but that it didn't need to reform the Male Violence Law and include it here, because, among other things, it might first reform the Youth Law, for example, that is one of the things that we also insist on several times. Neither from the point of view of the people working with victims of male violence, nor from the point of view of entities defending the rights of animals and the welfare of animals, nor from the point of view of veterinarians, nor from the point of view of trainers and trainers did this proposal of law support itself. And now I was bringing here to read some of the things that were said in the more than twenty appearances that we've heard, but I don't think I can, because Congresswoman Silva has already picked them up, and, moreover, it's in the audios that they should be heard. Precisely out of responsibility for the victims of violence, precisely out of respect for who works with them every day, every day, we will not support this proposal of the law. And no, she's not ashamed, because we're very convinced of what we're doing. And if there are seven groups in this chamber–seven–, well, five and two subgroups, and all the less citizens will vote the same, something should make them think. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.168.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the deputy Nàtalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.169.0	From the escó, Vice President. Well, as you know, as we said at the time when this bill was put forward, our parliamentary subgroup did not consider it a priority for the fight against masculinist rape. These days we have had the opportunity to debate the subject and, since we did not consider it a priority, as we know the rest of the speakers of this question, we did not participate. Therefore, we will maintain this coherent line of neither finding it a priority nor, now, supporting Ciutadans' position. Yes..., add a reflection on..., and a thank you, despite the differences that are being shown, all the work, all the energy and all the hours that not only you, as Members, have dedicated to this law, but to all the people, all the entities, organizations and collections that have come to appear in Parliament. That there's not a job I've been in, that I've been in jail, and that on future occasions we can debate..., tied to priorities in the fight against male violence, that we can debate with quality on this issue, and thank them for the job.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.170.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of MP Esperanza García, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.171.0	Thank you, President. Well, I believe that the key to why an initiative, a legislative proposal that can be positive in terms of the purposes chosen, derives from the situation in which we are today, is not a question that has to do with the goodness or not of the groups that do not sign that proposal – because it seems that it has been pointed out to us as ‘unkind' – it does not even have to do with a kind of, finally, allergy to the proposer of this law, which is absolutely so, but rather the way of articulating the and the outcome of a paper that has been quite extensive, where, moreover... we find that the commitment and the impetus of the rapporteur of that paper has been important and commendable, and those that we have been able to participate in a less face-to-face way, through the audios, what we have found is that the key to why this proposal does not go forward is not because the purpose is what I have said, but because, in the paper itself, the participants understood that the way of dealing with what, however much the end pursued was good, was not appropriate. Therefore, on that basis, it was almost impossible to recompose this bill into something positive, into a positive tool for women who suffer gender-based violence, and we will therefore reiterate our refusal, regrettably, to this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.172.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Rut Ribas, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.173.0	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I'd also like to start by saying hello to all the entities that support this law proposal, but unfortunately I can't do it either, and the reality is that there's only a few of them, it's the whole state... so they support it. I, a little more to add to all the words that have preceded me from my companions, because they have basically explained the reality of all these weeks viscous with the ponence of law and also, therefore, we were pleased that, in this case, the Ciutadan Group has listened to all the appearances that were there and, then, reflect on why today there are parliamentary groups of this chamber that will give green to this particular vote. We understand that you are coming all the way here, because you have the need to end up in this House. So we're gonna guarantee these rights here so that we can be here today and just debate it. But the fact is that we are debating an opinion that covered the entire text; therefore, it has no content. But, finally, we encourage us to listen to these appearances that were accompanied by us, because, basically, all the experts and professionals of the ponència, except..., as Mrs Silva and Mrs Segovia already referred to, so that the vast majority of them, except one, asked us not to follow the..., and then to raise this ponència de l'lei. But unfortunately here we find ourselves, debating this little shared issue, but we believe that everything is going to go on, because, in the end and in the end, what we want is to eradicate all the masculinist rapes. And it is that the conclusions of most professionals and experts recommend that this mechanism was not the most appropriate. Both feminist movements, such as legal experts and psychologists, and people who work with kids – the guys of attendance, the guys of therapy – people who defend the rights of animals, so they tell us that it was not an appropriate measure; neither from their point of view of attention and prevention to women victims of male violence, nor so removed by their urgency in approval and implementation. Therefore, we did not find any reference that should be taken into account to support this proposal. And there were many of the interventions, therefore, that gave us in this sense, and one of them..., also referred to by Mrs Bea Silva, who, at the head and at the end, therefore, what is a law..., for herself is universal and therefore applies to that particular. And this case, therefore, is all the contrary: a particular measure that is intended to apply to a whole collection. But it's that the summary of this proposal is to equate a dog with a weapon; therefore, a Trump measure: "I made the weapon easier for you to protect yourself. And, obviously, this goes against real policies, the essence of our legislature, and the essence of Law 5/2008, the right of women to eradicate male-based violence. Also, what is evidence is that this law proposal was poorly drafted and with a cluster of contradictions, because it equated a therapeutic go, a escort go, a go of attendance... And also, what was also not taken into account was that, at times, for the aggressor man, this dog would not be a barrier, because, unfortunately, if there was intent on feminicide, the dog would not be an obstacle. Also, what has not been taken into account here is that survivors continue to be stigmatized, and to whom has suffered male violence, unfortunately, will always accompany this label. And she didn't realize that being accompanied by a dog... at any time she would have to believe why she was accompanied. Therefore, we would revictimize the victim and survive it, in this case, even more. Therefore, it is wrong to propose a reform of a very specific and minor aspect. Yes, it is true that Law 5/2008 should be updated and adapted to current times, but it is that... no doubt, therefore, that a companion can facilitate this emotional state to the woman, but here we are talking about whether this should be a universal right or not. Therefore, we here will continue to devote our efforts and insist and work to improve the prevention and eradication of physical, psychological, sexual, verbal, street, institutional, work, day, night, night, night, because basically what we want to be and be alive. But today we still do not hear this type of policy that Ciutadans does, without listening, without taking into account the opinions of the professionals and the entities and all the experts of the society who wanted to give us their degree of smile so that we did not get ahead of this proposal of law. But what we want is to find solutions and, yes, to make this change of look so as to stop victimizing the survivors and end up now, once in a while, with this slaughter that kills us every day. But for consistency, we will not support this particular vote or this proposal of the law. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.174.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Last but not least, it is the turn of MP Imma Gallardo, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.175.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon, Members and Members, Vice-President... Go to the point that our parliamentary group at the time has already presented a statement to the whole of this bill, but the plenary, which will be sitting, decided that there was a majority who wanted to follow the process, and finally we were going to withdraw it, precisely to facilitate this debate. And now we find ourselves debating this bill. After listening to all the appearances and as the previous Members of Parliament have already said, I found that the vast majority of them came to the conclusion that, in view of the social risk and the foreseeable harm to people and animals, this proposal for law was neither prioritizing nor timely. We therefore reaffirm our original position and vote against the opinion. Because, as I said, the unanimity of the appearances about the inconvenience of approving this PL has been overwhelming, and I will sum it up in four points. First, it detects an incompatible responsibility with the improved emotional stability of the victim of male violence. Placing the victim women of male violence in the charge of a gor, for their defense, cannot be assimilated to equip them with a means of protection, because above all it ignores the follow-up of consequences that entails, for the life of the victim, taking care of an animal, which, moreover, already has certain characteristics and a determined training, as well as the level of responsibility that its youth entails. It is a fact found, known and known that victims of gender-based violence require a time of stabilization in which to take responsibility for their own clinical and social evolution and resume their daily lives. At the length of this recovery process, which is sometimes long, we understand that assigning the maintenance of a go is inappropriate. According to the report, the social problem that could be caused by the claim for the purpose of the law, given that giving a victim of general rape of a trained dog for protection is as much as giving her a weapon – said Congresswoman Silva – so that, given the time, she could have the animal served with this purpose. The risks that this situation would entail at the general level are considerable. It should be noted that it was left to the criteria of the woman – let's remember that in emotional recovery process – the valuation of the risk scale in situations that might not require defensive action. Thirdly, there may be a situation that could be reversed against the woman herself, because in most cases there will be a bond between her and the animal, and it cannot be obviated that the violence against the animals to harm or coerce the pair is a reality recognized in the field of clinical psychology, and that it has already been collected at the level of jurisprudence. From the detection of these phenomena, there are more frequent cases in which the assailant serves the animal that lives with the victim as if at least to convey the violence to him, giving him death, harming him by any means of torture or simply threatening him. Fourth, there's a direct damage to the animals. So far we've been talking about people, but we can't ignore that, towards animals, the measure is also extremely harmful and against the right. The experience of this rule is to serve animals, children, as an escort and protection tool, with everything that this entails and, according to the saying, therapeutic. It is also proposed that the animal be subject to a temporary or definitive cessation. In any case, this consideration may be supported, as part of the judicial order is being violated. It is a fact that, in Catalonia, our civil law no longer regards animals as things, and the same reform is in progress at the state level. We don't doubt the therapeutic capacity of animals, especially boys, but always in a professionally coordinated job. Therefore, let's consider that we don't have to raise it to the level of..., of law's proposal rank. Other more effective tools can be found, as Congresswoman Segovia said. At present, we also find other means that can be effective for the protection of victims. To finish, now, thank all those who have confirmed their contributions to us in the impossibility of approving neither the report nor the documents. Reiterating that our parliamentary group is fully involved and committed to all gender policies, and that we will not spare the efforts and resources it serves to prevent, care for and protect the victims of violence. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.176.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Once the debate is over, in accordance with Rule 124.1 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall proceed to the vote on the individual vote. We called for a vote. We'll wait a few moments for all the members of the chamber to arrive. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.177.0	Well, let's proceed to the vote, once the debate on the private vote is over. The vote on the individual vote begins. The particular vote of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 87 against and no abstentions. Having been rejected, therefore, the particular vote, we are finalizing the debate on the opinion of the Committee on Institutional Affairs and, consequently, this initiative is rejected. [[Question to the Government on the balance of government action]] [[300-00217/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the questions, and, in concrete terms, let's start with the question to the Government about the balance of government action. Presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, to expose it has the word of Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.178.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, Vice President... Miri, we're asking you about the balance of government action, not about the past year of government action, just since the government started walking, huh? and, therefore, it is the conjunction of the period of his mandate that we would like to examine. And, at the time of doing so, at the time of making a balance of these characteristics, there are three possible approaches, which are not necessarily incompatible with each other, which can be complementary, and which we will try to combine. First of all, there is the possibility of basing the balance on the contrast between what our parliamentary group believes that its government should do or that it should stop doing, and what it actually does. But we can already tell him that this is not the main focus of our inquiry, except for what he does to the general political orientation of the government or the speech of the government, huh? In some way. In the second term, there is the possibility of basing this balance on the speeches made during the investiture session for whom he was a presidential candidate at that time, and now President, Mr. Joaquim Torra; among other things, because he is at the investiture where he is trying to obtain the confidence of the chamber in the candidate's own person and in the government program that exposes himself in the intervention, even if he is still briefly. And, thirdly, there is the possibility of basing this balance on the ruling plate of the 12th legislature and, when it comes to the case, perhaps also on the standard plate, that they land everything that the presidential candidate put forward, in a timely manner or in the form of drafts, in his interventions. Arrived here, I think we can make a first observation, and it is that much of what was placed as a political priority of the new Government in the speech of the presidential candidate, both in the first and in the second, in this case, is no longer explicitly receding in the Pla de Govern. And it is not that we know hard, because we refer expressly to what is more directly related to the ultimate aspirations or the objectives behind the political forces that integrate the government and the majority of parliament that sustains it. Not once on a single occasion, in the ruling plate of the 12th Legislature, does there appear the idea of building an independent Catalan state, neither explicitly nor in a tácita form. We have often asked, or we have presented or participated in other initiatives with which we have had occasion to assess, sectorally or with general character, the degree of absolvement of the objectives of the Governance Platform; therefore, it is not my intention or that of my group, with this inquiry, nor to abhor it to you nor to abhor the chamber with a wide list of those themes in which we consider that there are shortcomings of the Governance Platform or in which there are shortcomings that we believe would need to be corrected. At the same time, I let him say that we understand that there are shortcomings in the governance plan, that there have also been shortcomings in the standard plan, and that there have also been shortcomings in the agreement adopted for Parliament, sometimes with the competition of the groups that support the government, and sometimes with the vote against the groups that support the government. It's a long list. Believe 'but I don't know much about teaching papers to camera; among other things, because one runs the risk of becoming a meme, then, but it's a long list. Here we are. You know her, the chamber knows her. Let's just think of a few examples. First of all, the lack of proper implementation of the Children's Law; the lack of a shoc plan to reduce the waiting lists; the lack of genuine compromises with professional training; the lack of development of a shoc plan to increase the public housing park; the lack of development of the Law of urban promotion areas – the APEUs –; neither has the Map of social services of Catalonia been updated, so as to advance in the compaction and flexibility of social protection; there has also been a lack of a new model of special work centres, and neither have we found firm commitments with inclusive schooling and with students with special educational needs. As I said, there are many different areas of activity and sectors and, therefore, many of our fellow citizens, and we have not highlighted those that we want to prioritise today; in other sectoral initiatives, we have not highlighted others and we will probably have to follow up. I have to say that, in a recent answer to a question put to him by the president of our parliamentary group to the president of the Government of the Generality, the president of the Government of the Generality, with his characteristic style, answered..., because the president of our group restrains him from the lack of regulatory development, which we understand necessary, of various laws, right? , and the lack of legislative output of the Government also restrains it in a certain way. And the President of the Generalitat replied: "I think the governments are not going to go too far. Many laws and regulations can be made that are not useful for mass. I have to say that they can agree with that statement. Now, you can also do a few laws and a few rules and not serve much, and that's worse, huh? And I think, dissociatedly, we find ourselves sooner before a situation like this. And I say that, in fact, we can agree that it is not possible to make a special appreciation for the legislative production, let us say, of the character or quality of a government or of government action. But the truth is that we find ourselves almost to the equator of the legislature... if we judge it, however, by the immediate precedents, by the climate that is breathed into the country and into Catalan politics, and by the egregious feeling that it is owed to the government, we would say more quickly that we find ourselves at the end of the legislature. But, well, let's make sure we're in the equator of the legislature. And the government, from our point of view, from the perspective of legislative production, is in much more than discreet registers; from the point of view of incompliments, it respects the Pla de Gouvernement or it respects that approved for the chamber or, even so, it respects the Pla de Normaliu, we have already briefly exposed the situation, in that it seems more than unsatisfactory, even deplorable, the situation of the degree of incompliments. From the point of view of the ordinary management, there are areas in which we can only call it very evil, from our perspective, huh? , and we believe that, in addition, they are areas that have significant effects on the conjunction of citizenship or on some particularly vulnerable sectors; we are talking about sanitation, guaranteed income from citizenship, juvenile justice, care for childhood. From the point of view of the government's solidity, that is to say that it has not only been losing many votes, but perhaps, to avoid losing them, they end up abstaining in a lot of votes, the groups that support the government, on essential aspects for the country, as if the government or the parliamentary majority that it sustains do not have any respect. They also vote often differently for the forces that, on paper, give support to it, especially that which is not directly integrated into the Government. It is more, the discrepancies are known, the..., go, the fundamental and strategic discrepancies between the groups that form part of the government. To put just three recent examples: we have not seen around the management of the public order, in recent months, when members of different groups supporting the Government have questioned the Councillor d'Interior; about the recovery of the management of public services, or the more recent, that has to see with the agreement on taxation what they have reached with the group of the commons, which, according to the Group of Junts for Catalonia, has manifested, at least in some respects, not shared, while already expressed, the spokesman, the discipline of voting with the Government, in this respect, isn't? And, in fact, since we are talking about assumptions, from the point of view of assumptions, at the moment this government has not brought a draft assumptions to Parliament. He did, yes, on one occasion, a public presentation with a powerpoint, but he did not get to approve it either in the Executive Board or, obviously, did not take it to Parliament. Therefore, neither 2018 nor 2019 have we had, and we will see if in the next weeks or months he sees the draft assumptions for 2020. But, well, it respects the question of the general political orientation of the government, which is where I told him that we also want to make an impact, the fact is that it contrasts the action promoted by the government and the commitment in the investment speech. In fact, today, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed has done what we could say to the President of the Government, which is, to put it this way, very briefly, if they really go on what they say, right? , to say the least. The president responded to the CUP that yes, they were effectively continuing to compromise, in short, with an agenda for the construction of an independent Catalan state in this legislature. And, well, it is certain that, in the investiture speech of the student candidate Mr. Torra, he said that, well, they would push a process constitute – the certain one that passed without much pain or glory the Council Counsellor for the Impuls of a Civic and Social Forum, which, in theory, had to set this process in motion – and he also said that they would draw up a draft constitution. He also explained that this would be done in three ways: the Council of the Republic – now for the Republic – with the Assembly of Elected Carrecs and the process, and he also generated a series of initiatives in various fields, to which I have already referred in the departure of the incompliments. Now he talks to us, the president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, again, about the elaboration of a Catalan constitution and, at the same time, a new reference. And it seems to us that one thing and the other is contradictory. O you say that October 1 has already contained a binding mandate, or propose a new reference. If they propose a new reference, how come they're already making a constitution? So it seems to us that, in short, in our opinion, we find ourselves in front of an exhausted and unsettled government, even before we have taken a leap of belief, that it does not complete its own plan of government or manage the skills that are its own, and that it has proposed an impossible objective to settle, donating the real conditions of the country and the distribution of preferences among Catalan citizens respect this ultimate objective or maximum aspiration, and that it does not recognize, in speech or practice, the existence of broad social sectors – majority, in our opinion – that they are not independent. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.179.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.180.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, the New Members, who are not their case, sometimes before the first intervention in the Chamber – as at least, I did – prepare the intervention by repeating it before the Mirall, for the sake of the stage of speaking to the Chamber of the Parliament of Catalonia; I did so, the first time I intervened in this Chamber as a Member. Normally it's to compose what you want to say – the content, the time, when you don't stay in the middle of the way – and to make sure the intervention prepares it well. Sometimes, looking at the Mirall went well, especially when there are claims about the ability or inability of a government to culminate with its proposals, about the ability or inability of a government to reach parliamentary consensus, about the ability or inability of a government to pull forward a legislature. And I think that, in this sense, the representative, the deputy of the Socialist Party in this intervention, taking into account that you, therefore, also participate, as brotherly party, in a government that has not begun in the State, with a legislature that we would say that – you will understand me perfectly – did not go beyond the condition of being born, huh? I think they should have looked at the lookout before they did according to what assertions, because a good part of what you said might have been said to Mr. Pedro Sánchez, that he was unable to form majorities, that he had provoked an electoral repetition and that he ended up in a scene where the result is the same as we had, with the difference that fifty citizens' deputies were replaced by fifty members of the extreme right. So sometimes it's okay to look at the Mirall. In any case, you have made reference to the Governance Platform and the Standard Platform, which are coming to an end in its content, with timetables also adapted to the majority parliaments, in a context of a Parliament in which political diversity, political plurality, without an absolute majority of the forces that form part of the Government, obviously obliges flexibility many times, therefore, also in the same times and in the same ways of doing, especially when we want many of the initiatives that form part of the same internal process of government we want to be fully involved from a political point of view and, therefore, there is an effort to achieve consensus. He also made reference to the standard Platiu. Here I am..., if I want to come in later, but a list of all the normative initiatives that are in progress, that can consult all the citizens, that are, therefore, in a process of participation by the citizens, collecting proposals that have gone forward, or rather proposals of the Council of Local Governments of Catalonia, that have gone through all its processes. And he referred – and here I would like to detach a little – to various parliamentary agreements which, according to the view of the honourable Member, the Government has incompleted, and I believe that, as the substantive questions of the day to day of the people to whom you referred, I think it is worth commenting on. In the first place, he referred to the management of the lists of waits in the health field, regardless of the context of a health system in which life expectancy, the chronification of diseases and new innovations in the technological field, therefore, involve an increase in demand which results in an increase in the need for the consumption of presuppostary resources in this field. I believe that it is also important in this context to highlight some of the agreements that came to an end in the past year, that it is not just the processes of stabilising plants in the field of health and in the field of the Catalan Institute of Health – now there have been these processes of stabilising the whole of the incorporation of new staff into the ICS – but also the reinforcement with new medical personnel in the field of the lists of hope, aware that the reinforcement of the primary also means accompanying the other parts of the chain, right? , and in this case also, therefore, in the field of specialists, both in the field of primary care and in the field of hospital care. The Health Department is one of the departments that has accused the most of the lack of assumptions and, therefore, will be one of the departments that, with the project of assumptions that we will present in this chamber, will benefit both in quantitative terms and also in percentage terms. Secondly, he referred to the lack of a genuine commitment to vocational training. I don't know how a compromise is measured, whether it's authentic or not. Anyway, I can explain... money. So money needs pressure and you don't need to vote, and that's it. Therefore, in any case – in any case – you also know parliamentarianism, it is the Parliament that authorizes the Government to make the expenditure, and often the dynamics of this Parliament have approved that it is the other way around: that parliamentary proposals are adopted without the corresponding presuppositional endowment and, therefore, that it is the responsibility of the Government to assess the costs of opportunity, to come in and see where all resources are drawn from. We will bring the Bill of Presumptives to this Parliament for the next month and, therefore, what we expect is that, in line with what you have said, you do not aim at those who want to prevent their processing. He also referred to the public housing park. And here I would like to remind you, for example, of the initiatives which, in the absence of major resources from the State Housing Plan, are those which, at the far end of the history of the Government of Catalonia, have provided the majority of resources in housing policies to the Generality, because precisely who recovers, that is the State, is the one who has the capacity to manage a good part of the resources. Two initiatives: the two lines of financing, more, therefore, with some types of interest subsidies of the Catalan Institute of Finance, destined both for the acquisition of already built habitats to allocate them to their social loguer, as well as to the promotion of..., to generate new promotions of social loguer habitats. He referred to the need for compaction in the field of social services. We are explaining the guaranteed income of citizenship, and precisely this compaction that you ask here is absolutely contradictory to the petitions that you make around the management of the guaranteed income of citizenship, in which they ask that each time it is compatible with more performance. For that matter, or one thing or another. And, therefore, we, in this sense, compromise with the deployment of the guaranteed income of citizens, who, as a subject right, despite being in presupposition and despite having a government of the State that has been rescuing resources to the autonomous communities – and then I will refer to it, perhaps I will have to do so in the second intervention–, we have been deploying the guaranteed income of citizens, although I do not have any presupposition, according to the timetable established for the law. And this year it was 80 million more euros, and the year that came we'd be following. Therefore, the compromise in the field of social benefits is absolute. Special work centres. And here, listen to me, you centered the pilot on me. And today I think they're coming more than ever to serve this simile. The pilot focused on me, because we see that the increase in the minimum interprofessional wage needed and also insufficient was not accompanied by an increase in resources to the special work centres. Therefore, the State decides and pays the Generality, which is a fairly constant dynamic. The increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, which has clearly impacted on special work centres, is what obliges us to accurately assess its viability and look for what is a new model of special work centres. And I think that, at the same time that they have the medal of the increase of the interprofessional minimum wage, which we are celebrating, they should go a little further and take the butxaca and put presuppostarial resources to those that we are giving enough support to the special centers of work. The inclusive school. The inclusive school decree is unfolding and will be further deployed with the own assumptions of the Government of Catalonia. And then we'll get back to the test of the side and we'll see if you..., this requirement is also self-requirement and, therefore, you abandon the convenience of the declaratory opposition and are placed in a line of constructive opposition and, therefore, make assumptions on the assumptions with the will to achieve better assumptions that can be applied. And, finally – finally – a phonetic element: we continue to have a Ministry of Heritage that manages the financing model as it managed the Popular Party. The year you see the resources will be sold to us..., the liquidation of resources has had to arrive the year 2018. The year 2018 is the year that this government begins and the year of the motion of censure in Spain. What will come to us will be the equivalent of 1_percent of GDP. The State was prepared to pay the public service in Catalonia the equivalent of 1_percent of GDP : 2,250_million euros. That's not good management. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.181.0	Thank you, Vice President. In order to make the reply, the deputy has another turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.182.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... vice president, look, he was starting his intervention, telling me we were gonna look at the Mirall, right? , and he was talking about the New Members, who may be sitting in front of the Mirall, etc. Well, in front of the Mirall, it's good to be there for a while, for the morning ablutions that each one of you has to do. It's not good to be en massed either. But in any case, it is very close to a new policy – and neither is it, Mr. Aragonès – the appeal of "and you more. You've done it more elegantly, that's what you say before the miracle. We are very willing to stand before the Mirall, but, of course, something more expected of a Vice President of the Government of the Government of Catalonia than the argument of "and what? Yes, indeed, all governments, all political forces have contradictions. But, well, you talked about the refusal to negotiate assumptions, etc., which dropped the state's last general assumptions presented was its political formation; together with others, obviously, but its political formation. And there was money here for some of the things that you kept holding us back. But I'm telling you, I don't know much about this argument. I asked him to respect these concrete questions on which, sectorally, if we ever touch again, and with the reason that we are following from this inquiry, therefore, I am certain that we have occasion to enter the debate; but on the questions of general political orientation he did not answer me. And, well, respect the management questions, I'm telling you, I didn't accuse them of idle novels, it would be..., the whole time my criticism was much harder if I thought the government was just sitting there. He says to me: "We have a standard plan which, if you see it, there are many things in the way. Indeed, yes, they have initiations in progress; but it is that the standard Pla used to schedule roughly and I believe that there are also incompliments here. But, well, fi. With regard to what I gave him of the general political orientation. To the question of the UPC that made this morning the spokesman Riera to the president of the Generalitat I have interest in knowing what I answer to it, you. I mean, did this legislature have to have a Catalan constitution in April and make a new reference or do other things? Because they are very different things then, the setting up of one type of legislature and another. And, look, I'm telling you, because our political formation – and I know it –..., which, of course, has to be a mess to accuse the PSC of maintaining a comfortable position in the last few years in Catalan politics. But, finally, what we are concerned about is that the objective that you cannot but understand – and we can understand – and that they want to settle in this legislature – which already seems less understandable to us – is an objective that deeply divides Catalans and Catalans, and not only divides them largely by half. The last barometer of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio, if the question was formulated in binary terms, said that a 48,3_per_cent of the polls answered that no to a binary question about whether Catalonia had to become an independent state, and a 44_per_cent said it did. Now, to the spontaneous response, let's say, between different options, those known about a region of Spain, an autonomous community, a state within a federal Spain and an independent state, was already 34,5_per_cent. But, well, let's say that in binary terms we're half in half. The problem is that the dividing lines are not with a homogeneous distribution in the conjunction of the Catalan population, neither territorially, nor socially, nor in terms of self-location from the point of view of national identity, nor of maternal language, nor of those questions that are also fanciful about whether a single one, parents or opinions are born in the country, nor in terms of income or social class, if I have to say so. Therefore, it seems to us that it is absolutely irresponsible that we have a president calling for increased tension, polarization and increasing the sacrifices that each person must be available to; it would be in abstract terms. We believe that the function of one president should be another, rather than calling the division of the same society. But in the concrete terms of how the Catalan society is concretely, it seems even more irresponsible to us, and we would like to ask you whether this is a common position of the Government or is, let us say, merely a personal opinion of the President of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. And, therefore, we ask you if you believe that you can also increase this tension, this polarization or this demand for sacrifice to the Catalans, which seems to be what the President of the Government of Catalonia advocates for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.183.0	Thank you, Congressman. And now, to make the reply, I'm sending a return to the vice president. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.184.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Congressman, I think convictions are never denied with the will of dialogue and with the will of understanding. I am an independentist, a leftist, a republican, and I will always defend being able to achieve these objectives, not just as quickly as possible, not only for this legislature, if I may be, many of us would already be, if I took my will, and I am convinced that of the people who can feel represented by my intervention. But, at the same time, what we are defending is that it is a political solution to a conflict, and this political solution..., what we have to do is sweat and talk, and that is constantly demanded not only in this Parliament, but also on many occasions on the streets of our country. Sit and talk is asking for so many people. We had an opportunity, and who rose from the table was the Government of the State, was not the Government of the Government of Catalonia. And I think now there may be an opportunity to explore if there has been an opportunity again. And I think, in this sense, I liked it, so an inquiry that might have helped more in this sense. The political conflict between the Catalan society and the institutions of the State, a Catalan society that is not uniform, that is plural, that is diverse, is only resolved with deliberation and democracy, is not solved with silence, is not solved with a judicial and criminal way against political dissent, is not solved in the way of trying to compete with its front benches, to see who has the largest flag or who carries it the most, but the issue is working to find solutions. And this dialog has to be a frank dialog. We have placed on the table..., the very Government of the Government of Catalonia, precisely after a Supreme Court ruling that caused, regardless of the ideology that each one has, a very important political and social commotion to Catalan society, we made a clear bet for the dialogue and to interact with the Government of the State to find political exits. It has not been until after a few elections and with the circumstances and with the result that there has been, which obliges, that there has been this return to the need for institutional communication between the President of the Government of Catalonia and the President of the Government of the State. And until these elections were passed, we found a political position of the state government that was tense. Because coming out to applaud a sentence that condemns a segle of prison nine people to do politics, that's contributing to tension. Do not maintain a minimum institutional dialogue – minimum –..., talk, even though I keep talking to disagree, but as at least talk. Failure to maintain this minimum institutional dialogue does not favor the descaling, it does not favor the reduction of tension; on the contrary. Proposing penal code reforms in the line of crime that wasn't meant to increase a repressive dynamic doesn't help. Now it seems that we can enter another lane, that we would say, now it seems that there can be an alternative; we celebrate it, and for our part it will not be possible to explore, if possible, therefore, this opportunity to have an opportunity. But the plurality of opinions about Catalonia's independence in Catalan society should in no case cause it to be said that this is not the case, in no case should it cause this issue to be stopped, but precisely face it as an adult society and as a society of democratic convictions. We have all the proposals on the table, on the future politics of Catalonia; we have a deliberation and a debate on how to articulate Catalonia politically, without determining what proposals, when they are mobilised, when they are expressed and when they want to show the strength they have at the back, is found to be the disproportionate and unfair performance of the security forces of the State. Therefore, we want to have this debate with normality, and I believe that, in this sense, we need to be able to make this debate about the country's future policy. We defend the independence of Catalonia, because we believe, we are absolutely convinced that it is the way, that it is the instrument to be able to provide social justice in this country, to be able to improve the fight against inequalities, to represent correctly the interests of this society in Europe and the world, to build a better society, closer. It's our convictions, we'll defend it. Taking away the debate is a mistake. Keep up and face this debate; let's do it with all the options on the table, no veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.185.0	President, thank you. [[Asking the Government about the scale of a year of inaction]] [[300-00219/12]] Let's go to the next question, which is about the scale of a year of inaction, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To defend it has the word the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.186.0	Very good afternoon, President. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, look, our question is about the worsening that Catalonia has suffered during this natural year of 2019 due to its management, its management of government. We think that the President of the Generalitat has a great salary, has great dignitys, has prebendas once he has ceased to be President of the Generalitat, but he is not making at all the money we pay him Catalans, so many dignitys and so many advantages and prebendas for having been President of the Generalitat of Catalonia. And I'm saying he hasn't won it because what's happened here since the government took possession in May 2018 is that Catalonia has been getting into trouble, and that is being distinguished perfectly, especially in the last stages of 2019. In this year 2019 we have gone to worse; that bad thing that started in 2018, is going to worse in 2019, and much we fear that if you are not evicted from the government in 2020 we can still be worse. Real Catalonia, not the imagination of separatism, is destroyed, is in decline, is falling into ruin, both culturally and, above all, economically. And it is that the data are alarming, and you know it, and I cannot give you, as it is logical, now, in a ten-minute intervention, a comprehensive listing of that data, but yes of the most important. Not long ago my group was asking you about intermittent poverty, which is rising alarmingly, that out of every twelve people out of poverty, twenty-four are coming back because they have not been able to take off yet, and they are people who normally work and have very low wages; almost twice as many of those out of poverty are coming back, that is, it is worsening, that intermittent poverty. Severe poverty..., we have more than one hundred_ thousand people in Catalonia; children: more than 4_percent of children are at risk of poverty; energy poverty reaches almost 400,000 people. The waiting lists in healthcare: we have 146_days in Catalonia, compared to 115 in the rest of Spain. And the Greuges syndic sends it with which it is the fault of the rest of the Spaniards who come to operate here, very in line with the opinion and philosophy, the ideology of his Government and the parties that support him. The dependency lists have also worsened: 175,480 people pending on the dependency waiting lists, and we are the worst autonomous community in Spain, which should also make us reflect. The same as the number of barracks in education: 41_per_cent of students, twenty_thousand children, thousand barracks, the worst figures there are, too, in Spain – the worst. But, yes, the barracks don't change them, it takes 20 years, but they spend EUR 1 million to subsidize Platform for Language to go spy on what language children speak in schools. Percentage of gross domestic product devoted to social services: 6.8_percent of the budget, 11th place in 17 autonomous communities. There is an increase – which, of course, is not due to the management of the government – in sexual assaults and macho assaults; rapes, concerned municipalities, such as that of Manresa. We do not know of any action you have taken to end this. Hate crimes have gone up. The hate crimes against the LGTBI collective have risen by 40_per_cent in what goes from 2018 to 2019. Our debt is in the clouds, the debt of Catalonia. Tourist nights in Catalonia have dropped, and significantly those of people coming from the rest of Spain. Business flight: 5,679, at 30 of the IX of 2019, with the source of the College of Registrars of the Property. Catalonia has lost three hundred seats in one year. Business flight has also increased in the second and third quarters of 2019, indicating that it is getting worse, that it is also accelerating. There is a negative balance of companies, between those that go and those that come, of 307, which is the most negative balance, the most negative balance of losses of registered offices that exists in Spain, more than all the other autonomous communities. The Catalan industry, over-concerning – and today it has been said in this Parliament. The Catalan industry has destroyed 15,200 jobs from September 2018 to this September 2019, and 14,200 jobs of these 15,000 have disappeared in the third quarter of this year. The employment of 4,433 workers has lost their jobs as a result of an extinction employment regulation file. Look at the chart how it went down, and now, from January to October 2019, it's been shot a lot more than the whole year before. The cases for dismissals in Catalonia, 13.76 in the first three quarters – this, in the courts – and 3.75 in 2018, that is, four times more. Creditor competitions, an increase of 50_per_cent. It's a panorama, it's a panorama that we have in Catalonia that is very worrying. And to all this, what have you done? Well, look, do we give you a list of the things you've done? Well, probably all Catalans would allude to the milestones of the process. If we remember the Torra government politically, of which you are vice president, because we started a 2019 already with about twenty-one points that got out of the way, absolutely insulting for Spain, as if it were a dictatorship that asked Sánchez to negotiate, as if those who gave a blow to democracy were the victims and those who suffered it were, therefore, the aggressors, and this was the approach already since January. A January that is progressing, the CDRs have already cut the Diagonal; in April an electoral campaign is started and TV3 is condemned up to five times – up to five times – for violating the Electoral Law, by the electoral board. There are the disobediences of Torra, who also does not seem to him to have to obey the electoral board, and these very days we will have the sentence. In the summer we suffered a very acute security crisis, as we had never had in Barcelona. On the Day..., the Day of September 11 arrives, and then the cannons of pouring money from the Generalitat turn again and begin to water with money the celebrations of the Day. And the curious thing is that you know that we have asked for the reports of where the money went and we have found out that the Diada cost us about 600,000, the celebrations that you projected; 400,000_euros to celebrate the one in Barcelona; announcements in the friendly press, about 100,000_euros; abroad, 85.000, and gave Germany 22,000_euros to celebrate the Diada, and Brussels 7,000. But the striking thing is that, in addition to spending 85,000 abroad to celebrate the Day, you already see what the Day will matter to you in Slovakia, in the Nordic countries, in Italy, in Portugal, in Austria, in Switzerland or in the United Kingdom, is that compared to the 20,000 they spent in Germany, they spent in Girona 170; 170,000? No, 170 euros. And in Lleida, 331_euros. They're already convinced, aren't they? You are going to convince the Germans of the goodness of that mythical Day that you have invented yourselves. And October comes, the sentence arrives, the great day of the sentence of the trial; we were in fact all that year and since 2017« ai si vinc, ai si vinc, said Mr Torra, « oy, when we get the sentence that we are going to bind. And October came and they tied her up, and we had barricades in the universities, the streets burned down, people were threatened, they tied her up, they stormed the airport, with the recommendation, in addition, of Mr Sergi Sabrià, that I do not see him here, who is the spokesman of Esquerra Republicana: « Id, go to the airport to paralyze it. December: you are asking here for the freedom of those detained for terrorism. Finally, they have used December to polarize Catalan society much more, to tension it, to force the Government of Spain and the rest of Catalans who do not commune with their ideas to capitulate and to bend their heads to their exorbitant demands. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.187.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.188.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Carrizosa, throughout his report of this country of horrors named Catalonia, he has missed a given, that it is the election results, that it is the people who want it, that it is the people who vote. Because you have made this obvious, you have made it clear that repeatedly, choosing to return to election, the citizens have been ratifying with the plurality existing in the country, with the plurality and diversity of options in the country... but, of all of them, the ones who have had the most support are those who support the independence of Catalonia. Therefore, in this account of this country of the horrors that you, therefore, have just described, missed this, missed the aspect of the democratic results. That I already know that many times..., when you consider that voting is a time for democracy, and, in change, that closing a parliament and dissolving 'Imitating 155 is not a time for democracy, it is certain that the concept of democracy that you have differs a little from what the rest of the people share. It is also characteristic, its political action, for a decrease in the Catalan institutions. This day that I don't know who invented it was the first laws that this Parliament of Catalonia approved after the franchise, and established the National Day of Catalonia on September 11. You know, he's a lawman, so he should be. Therefore, it is not what we are inventing, but it is what this Parliament approves, and it does so as a representation of the citizenry. It bothers you that the National Day of Catalonia is celebrated, and they are the first to run and ask to see how long we have spent the last euro; in change, they are the ones who watch applause until the red hands, every 12th of October, to the military parades to celebrate the day, fully respectable, of the Day of Hispanitat. Well, "totally respectable, I don't know, for the origins and other denominations he had held in the past, like" Race Day, right? Therefore, if you could apply the same scale of measurement in all your interventions, you could also look at the cost of Hispanic Day, which I assure you will have cost much, much, much, much, much more than the cost of celebrating September 11th in Catalonia. In his intervention we also see concepts such as the presumption of innocence disappearing from his imagination. A party that self-names itself liberal, therefore, does little honor to political liberalism, in good part of its positions. Now I'll paraphrase you, huh? Those who have entered the bar, especially in later months, are you – they are you. Because especially..., not just the last year, but because, especially the last months, you, before every opportunity there was to open dialog, every opportunity there was because those we think differing speak, contrast, debate ideas, you have gone to put more tension, you have gone to put more chasm. You have come to star in absolutely absurd Croats, as you go to the people of Catalonia where you have no way of representation, because the citizens of that country have decided that they do not have it, well free..., go to it to give up until the dark place they found, to call a demonstration against the attacks in which a journalist ends up being attacked because he was thinking of TV3 and it turns out that he was, poor, Telemadrid, etc. So, the last few months we've seen all this time, and certainly, who came in, making use of his expression, have been you. He referred to a whole series of questions about the economic and social situation that I think we need to talk about, and so much. You're referring to the poor in the work. Absolutely agreeable, but oblivious – you, always so keen on who has the competence and constitutionality of what is being debated in this Parliament... – that legislation in labor matters is done by the Congress of Deputies. I forgot, that. When you refer to the dispatchers of employment regulation, especially hard in the industrial sector, for corporate decisions many times arising from mergers that are taking place, from the concentration of business ownership in the large groups at European level..., you forget that, for example, the later labour reform, to which you have given support, removed the administrative authority in the dispatchers – before – that was held before the Government of Catalonia, and that today you have given many tools to Councillor El Homrani in order to be able to act before certain dispatchers of employment regulation, such as those which are for organisational reasons, not for economic reasons – for organisational reasons–, and in some of the cases that have been mentioned today in Parliament at some point in time. In the area of dependence, not only the Government of Catalonia, but the rest of governments like ours, have had to face the law alone. They had to face it alone, with a contribution from the State that was reduced. Today the share of services that are co-financed by users supposes more resources in the dependency system than those that place the State. And I want to remind you that this is thanks, too, to the assumptions that apply today, General of the State, that they are some to which you have given support. Just after approving them, happily fell the most corrupt government in Europe, the People's Party government, despite the fact that you tried to endure until the last moment. When we do that, the fact checking out what you say, we can already put the supercomputer there, because we would collapse: 41_percent of Catalonia's student in barracks..., it's fake – it's fake. So, I've reviewed this for the next time that we want... we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, we've This is why last April we approved the first plan with multi-annual presupposition for the progressive elimination of barracks, setting priorities: not only the progressive elimination of barracks, but also the better of existing buildings, which many times at the quality level, conditions, therefore, we can place them, in some of them, similar to that of provisional buildings. The debt of the Government of Catalonia has been contained, in the last years – it has been contained. And now you will be able to experience it, now that you participate in autonomous governments. This year that participates in autonomous governments, in all governments in which you participate are exceeding the deficit limits that the State has unilaterally established. We had to not end up being independent and seeing that this state of autonomy is a mere administrative decentralisation, and not a political one. But we've been controlling the debt, it's contained. We've been containing the deficit. These last few years have been the years in which for the first time Catalonia has completed the deficit targets – which we consider unfair. The significant improvement in all supplier payment terms. Also what is outside of what is the PMP index, of half-time payment; in the area of grants, the payments together, there has been a better one. From 2015 to 2019, the pending payment of our country's joints – and you, who have an extensive presence in the country's joints can prove it – has been reduced by 95_per_cent. And then there are some things that... you always grab some fragmented data; in any case, your strategy is to grab the fragmented data. Quina? The one they need to make up for the speech. So, what's important is the truth? No, the important thing is the consistency of his speech. What happens is that reality destroys the little consistency of his speech. With regard to the domiciles of your social partners in Catalonia, you are focusing on the changes in the domiciles of your social partners and, for example, it is obvious that in the last monthly statistics it is the Community of Madrid, which has a displacement of its larger social partners. As far as I'm concerned, there's no Madrid independence process. Yes, there is no tax, that they are becoming almost an island of the canal in many areas, in tax matter, taking advantage of the capitality effect. Nor does it take into account that in the net balance package – I ask the merchant register –..., you will see that the creation of businesses in Catalonia is higher than the average in the State; much higher when you compare it, for example, with the Community of Madrid. And I'm taking over the Community of Madrid because that's the case you've served. And, look, the Catalan industry has a lot of challenges, and this government wants to face them. The first thing you can do to give support to the Catalan industry is that when the assumptions of the Catalonian Government are brought to this Parliament you will vote in favour, because there will be allocations for the National Pact for Industry. The second thing is to give support to the construction of the Mediterranean Corridor. The third thing is to help us change the pricing model of electricity in the Spanish State: opaque, sensitive to political corruption and that we can change all of them. And, therefore, I ask you, if you want to help the Catalan industry, help this. And that I also help with repealing labour reform, supporting the repeal of labour reform, and, therefore, that the Government of Catalonia, when there is a closure for organizational issues, can deny it administratively again, and, therefore, we can have a much bigger tool to deal with the EROs in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.189.0	Thank you, Vice President. To make the reply, the deputy has a five-minute turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.190.0	Well, Mr. Vice President, I start with a correction: that 41_per_cent to which I referred is..., the 41_per_cent of the Spanish students who study in barracks are Catalans. We have 41_percent of the total number of students in the state, 20_percent of the population, who study in barracks. And then I hope that you will rectify, as I have done, the inaccuracy with what has come out here to say: "Let's talk about electoral percentages..., that you are not the majority, the separatists, that you have never been. That they have been 47_per_cent in the last elections; that they are not the majority, gentlemen. And since they are not the majority, they cannot pull our hairs and drag us to independence to others, to the majority. You can't skip the laws, you can't trample the laws and the rest of the population, because you're not the majority. And even if they were, they would also have to respect the laws, because the laws are made to protect minorities – they are made to protect minorities – you know? I mean, if you were the majority, you wouldn't be able to trample on minorities either. [[Greetings.]] Look, he's accused us of scorning Catalan institutions. That is an insult, and more so from those who have burdened themselves with the Statute and trampled on the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament and the dignity of this House. That's an insult, for Citizens. [[Greetings.]] We are the ones who respect the Catalan institutions, from 1978 onwards, with the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy, which is what is in force, the whole legal body that is in force legally in Spain, as a democratic state that is. That's what we respect, and you don't respect it, and that's why you have these little problems that some of you have, and not so small. And, look, when you told us that there are towns in Catalonia where we have no representation and that we are going to provoke, so, it's a little offensive, what do you want me to say? Aim [[the orator shows a full to the chamber]] : « A mayor of Esquerra Republicana, proud after the assault on a building of Citizens. The politician, a position of Republican Left, supports in this way the attacks of the independenceists on the participants in a political act of Citizens. You, your mayor of Esquerra Republicana... We have the trial for these threats and aggressions that we suffered in Torroella de Montgrí, and still yesterday was flaunting to go there to threaten again our councilman Pere Cuartas, councilman who won his record after being threatened when they did not want us to go, that there are neighbours of Torroella de Montgrí who vote for Citizens if they leave us – and they do not threaten us and beat us, as they did, who threatened us and beat us. And the trial is tomorrow, the trial of one of these conducts, by the way, of a CUP lord, who are not here. A CUP councillor threatened the then candidate with death: "No, don't show up. They told his mother..., it will be seen in the trial, but they said to him: "Your son has the gods counted here to Torroella de Montgrí. That's what's going on in Catalonia. And you, who applaud the gentlemen who are in prison for allegedly trying to make explosives... you say, well, it's okay. Well, it does; it does, and the trial is tomorrow. And I hope you'll now come out here in the replica and say something, say something about your Republican Left Mayor or say something that this gentleman you assaulted and threatened didn't have to have been assaulted and threatened. Say it yourself, but say it. And lastly, you spoke of attacks on journalists. Well, I don't have to answer to you, but you know what journalists' associations say. And how many more journalists have been coerced and expressed the difficulty of exercising their profession in Catalonia when they are harassed in the demonstrations of the CDRs? How do they have to go? So... Mr Aragonès, we, you know, respect each other very much personally. We are..., to you we do not have any kind of..., you know, there is a cordial personal relationship, but it is that we often think that you – and Mrs Forcadell said precisely – have never empathized with the situation of more than half Catalonia. You have believed the owners of Catalonia, and it is very sad, what happens in our land. I hope that they will rectify for the coming year 2020. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.191.0	Thank you, Congressman. When you say so, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.192.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Member, I don't know if you've been feeling good or if you've had a speech, because when I'm referring to you having gone to go through deep places in municipalities where you don't have representation, I didn't say at the moment I didn't even accuse them that you were going to provoke; you said so. I don't know if you haven't felt right or if you're doing this because what you're looking for is provoking. I don't know; he'll have the opportunity..., not then, because there's no contradiction, but... In any case, I want to subtrace and I want it to be very clear that I didn't say you were going to provoke it; I just described what you were going to do in a municipality where also, in many cases, you don't have representation. Listen to me, respect a director of yours in Torroella de Montgrí, in that he says that there is still a judge, and, therefore, he will see, therefore, what are the facts that are proven as certain, what are not... We, before any aggression... I say it clearly, we reject any aggression. We think everyone has to be able to show up... you have to show up all over the place. The people who have been in pre-trial detention, with an accusation of unjust rebellion, which has then fallen in court, have had to present themselves..., not only to present, but to take possession of their record, too. And, therefore, we are not the ones who limit the political rights of anyone, not just those who think like us... but, precisely, where you deserve it is those who do not think like us. Therefore, precisely in the defense of your political rights, that you can appear everywhere, to us you will find us at your side. And he knows that, in the case of Torroella de Montgrí – because you know it, from his parliamentary group – from the Vice-President's Department and the Civil Rights and Policy Office from the very first moment we made ourselves available. You made the decision not to take it into account; it is legitimate, but you know that we have made ourselves available. But in Torroella de Montgrí sometimes there are also actions that you have starred in that I think you should review. Anar before the house of the sea of the Consellera Dolors Bassa, go before his house, to exhibit his position in favor of his business does not help – in the help. Don't help. And that happened, because this information, moreover, is absolutely public. So... no help. In second place – in second place – you have... (Remove from voice. ) Can I keep talking or...? (Remorse of voice persists.) I always try to listen to you. I always try to listen to you carefully; I don't notice reciprocity, many times, huh? I keep going. Therefore, you have made reference to the laws that are used to protect minorities. So it seems that the Spanish State didn't get around here, and, in fact, even you want it not to go here, when you propose penal code reforms because it's harder against minorities, when you participate in municipal and autonomous governments raised for an extreme right-wing game, which is precisely what you have in hatred of minorities one of your banners. And I'm talking about Vox, because... as it looks bad, it looks like... you give support... you have Vox's support at the municipal level; otherwise, you don't have counselors. In Andalusia... you, without the support of Vox, would not be in the Government of Andalusia. Finally, in municipal governments in which you participate, you end up with institutional acts; for example, as the Day against Masclist Violence. And you're done pulling back out of this extreme right-wing game. You are so advocates of minorities that you defended changing the Electoral Law to leave minorities that in the conjunction of the State you are a minority, but you are the majority in your territories, without political representation. That the parties that we only present to Catalonia do not have any possibility of having, if not that we have an extraordinary electoral hegemony in Catalonia, representation at the Congress of Deputies. And it was you, Mr. Albert Rivera; you remember, of him, right? , which was the one who defended this modification of the Electoral Law. I believe, however, that we must start the stage of being able to go to the solutions. And, therefore, I invite you, in all the dialog spaces that exist, to participate in it. I invite you to respond to the different proposals made by the Government, by the President of the Government of Catalonia, to meet, you can enter the Palau de la Generalitat; that when a table of party dialogue is convened, which was approved by this Parliament, you also participate in it, that you do not self-exlocate, and that, in the great debates of the country, you participate in it. I believe that all we can solve in the ballot box will be better, all we can solve with political deliberation will be better, because the way is not that of the Criminal Code or of judicial authoritarianism. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.193.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Question on vocational training]] [[300-00218/12]] The next question is about vocational training. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.194.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, to an inquiry presented to the recent World Summit for Innovation in Education, made to 3,100 young Europeans, 56_percent of the young Spaniards between divided and twenty-five years old will consider that the current education system does not adequately prepare them to find work. The education system has, among other functions, the adaptation to the needs of the labour market. The labour market is a classic market, with an imperfect balance, since it predominates in a way that is under certain conditions where asymmetric information dominates, i.e., the agents who operate this market do not have the same information about the formation of the offer and the demand. The young man often makes decisions about his future on the basis of decontextualized, ebbing and, on many occasions, anachronistic information. Given that the decision of the type of training and of the studies to be carried out can condition many aspects in its future success in finding work, making this decision properly will have much relevance to the future of individual decision-makers, who are the students. Surely it can be said that the teaching can have other functions that are not exclusively that of insertion in the labor market, but it has to be recognized that this is one of its main functions. We find that in Catalonia we experience a youth rate of 24_per_cent– I hope to be consistent– and, at the same time, that 85_per_cent of companies ensure that they have many difficulties in finding certain profiles for concrete work places– an 85_per_cent. The study says that 70_percent of companies plan to increase their staff, but recognize their difficulty. The reasons that companies give are that the level of aspirants' idioms is very low and that students are not arriving in specialized profiles, such as logistics or STEAMs – science, technology, engineering, art and mathematics. It is complicated to find profiles that adjust to vacancies, which is called ‘talent gap'. Nor can we be completely calm..., it has also been said that this 70_per_cent increase in seedlings is good news, but it is a lower figure in 7_per_cent than in the past year. Having such a high structural youth rate as we have here cannot be regarded as a success of the educational system, years against it: it shows that things are not being done well. When I was talking about a market under asymmetrical information, I exactly did it to refer to this fact that I have just described. We are forming our youth in the mindset of the past century, and not in the 21st century. The model of society that we have to play will have completely different parameters of conduct to the present: digitization, robotics, transformation of information in the face of big data... The same process of globalization will make our young man adapt to jobs that have not yet been created, to use technologies that have not yet been developed. Our young man cannot continue to form as we did, with exclusively memoristic methodologies. The surgeons probably won't keep the same current tasks, since there are robots that will assist them in the interventions, and the maladies will be treated based on the big data. Lawyers, economists... we'll probably get even more complicated, and probably our functions could be completely replaced. And so in many of the current professions. Experts have already said that computer skills, flexibility, empathy and teamwork are essential skills today, which are called soft skills. The experts ask that curricula give more importance to humanities – in retreating to Spanish schools particularly for what it does to philosophy and classical languages – and to programming and algorithmic thinking – almost without presence, beyond very specific experiences. In the face of this future, we must make immediate decisions. We have to declare the state of emergence education. Otherwise, we'll find that companies won't find a skilled workforce, and, on the other hand, there'll be endemic stunts. Change of register. Yesterday, the news came that Alemanya urgently needs 1.4 million qualified foreign workers. Yes, I said it well: 1,400,000 foreign workers. The sectors they lack are technology – derived from the digitalization of the economy –, the health sector, the construction sector or the restoration sector. We also saw the news yesterday that Aliexpress, Alibaba's electronic trading platform, invests 5_million euros in digitizing Spanish peppers; in Asia they are very clear, they are not joking. I repeat, they must be doing something wrong. One of the main features of the European Union, precisely, was to facilitate the free movement of people, goods and capital. These last two have sunk them properly; it will not be the same, in change, for what it does to people. The Idiomatic Barrier continues to be very important, especially for a country like ours, where we have become involved in identity solutions using the Idiom as a differentiating element, instead of making it serve its true purpose. Idioms serve to make us hear, serve to communicate, and, in a world every time more global, discriminate candid Idioms as can be Spanish or English only serves to be an interbank for our youth at the time of finding work, that we do not forget that it is the element on which the life of any person is vertebrate. If we break this bond, what we do is condemn various generations to a future demotivator and worse living conditions than their peers, which will be the first time that happens in various generations. The job market looks for more and more specific and versatile profiles every time. To give an example, the video games industry, which in Barcelona has a very important presence, of which it is basically a complaint, is that IT and other country developers have to be imported, because here the faculties many times teach IT languages that have not been used in the real world for a long time. So, then, companies have to undertake an additional training task once they get the recent license, which implies a grip on the workmanship. On many occasions, this makes the skilled work of other countries much more competitive and expels our professionals. This is the example of the college port so that I want to focus on the extreme need to link professional studies to the business world. At first, he talked about the risk young people take when they have to decide whether to continue studying or not, whether..., which specialty, whether they learn a career or follow a formative cycle – that is, vocational training. And risk is important, as it determines the hope of return. And now we see that young people take a lot of risk, much higher than we've faced, and with a hope of coming back much smaller. Set_of_each_two young people think that the professional training has been the agent who best prepares young people for the future of the job. Experts also believe that the introduction of business practices to the Institute makes young people have much more accurate information about what certain professions and offices mean, and that, therefore, the asymmetry of what we talk about at the beginning is reduced. In fact, there have already been experiences in Spain in this sense: the Community of Madrid and Múrcia have already put experiences on the march in this sense for students of ESO quarter, who spend a week in business. This information that they get from their own experiences should also have an impact on another important aspect: 40_percent of middle-cycle students and 20_percent of upper-cycle students end up leaving the study. If we look for the causes of Europe's different tourism taxes, we will find that, for young people, the way to prepare young people for their entry into the world of work is the most marked. Germany is a paradigmatic case, in this sense. Since the year 1969 that developed the nomenada "FP dual with a lot of success. The bet for this educational model has allowed you to enjoy enviable city taxes, because they are our standards: a 5.3_per_cent. For his government and for whom they have preceded him, in change, has never been a priority. At present, the dual-sole FP represents a 5_percent of the total training offer, taking into account, including, distance training and the formative cycles of visual arts. It is also worrying that the later five years only the number of places in five_ thousand students has increased, or that the collaborating companies – the key element of the model's success – are now only 3,095, to be exact – are all their sources. All of this, taking into account that the dual PS job placement rate is 70_per_cent; therefore, it is a case of success, which maintains this training. Another unequivocal sign of its lack of involvement in this European success model is the paradigmatic case of the Martorell Vocational Training Centre, where more than fourteen_ thousand places are waiting any year for it to be used properly. The infra-utilization of this infrastructure, which for several years has meant an investment of 23_million euros, has no reasonable explanation. And the game of thunder that has brought to an end the councils of Enterprise and Social Afers and Treball has been a pitiful spectacle that has ended in a vodevil, with the desert contest for two consecutive shots. Your bankers would be hot to look at, really. What do you think you're doing, your department? Are you really thinking of getting involved in the solution of the future for thousands of young Catalans looking for professional, quality and responsible life projects? Or do you intend to continue until now, sharing the blame everywhere and not feeling responsible or assuming that there are some aspects of your manifestly better management? When will we have a commitment to truly end the dual FP why is it a referent among the formative alternatives of our youth? When will we have a government commitment to give global solutions, complete and satisfying to our youth and to our businesses? When will businesses be able to make investment plans without having to have the skilled workmanship they need? And, lastly, do you plan to take into account the opinion of companies in the configuration of the programs that they give to vocational training? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.195.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Education, Mr. Josep Bargalló. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.196.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MPs, first I have to tell you – first I have to tell you – that you have confided to me, because you have spoken, at times, of compulsory secondary education – because, if not, you don't understand what you said –; you have spoken, at other times, of battling – because, if not, you don't understand what you said –; you have spoken, at other times, of university – because, if not, you don't understand what you said – and you have talked a little bit about professional training – until the end. When, for example, he was talking about memoristic, he had to talk about pre-education to the inclusion of skills education and to the assessment of skills, he's years old enough, because, if not now, I don't understand what he was saying – I don't understand what he was saying. And I don't think you're talking about professional training when you were talking about teaching and memoristic assessment. But, by the way, let's say, from this educational institution that has presented us, and they respond to some of the things..., they also have some ancient data – they also have some ancient data – that I understand perfectly, even though the deputy Mrs Sierra has asked them constantly and that her group has them, and has them updated. There's a date I'd like to reschedule, because it's very important. You said: "You are of educational emergence; I find it very good, I mean, each can say what you want, and the reality is what it is, and no problem. The youth tourism tax in Catalonia, between 16 and 24 years, the year 2018 was 28.82_per_cent. The mid-grade tech was 8.47_per_cent; therefore, a 20.35 points per sub. The top-level technology rate was 9.32_per_cent; therefore, 19.5 per sub. These data are a success for vocational training – they are a success. Because the data say that youth, which is very big, focuses basically on those young people who have not passed through vocational training, and those young people who have passed through vocational training have a tax on youth that can be assimilated to Europe. So, the repte, what is it? Making families, young people and society hear that vocational training is a good tool – it's a good tool. One_two thing: the dual FP. On a few days that the Bertelsmann Foundation did not do to Cornellà, the Director General of Vocational Training of the Government of the State said that the State was starting to run the FP well because it had already reached a 3_percent of the second-grade FP students, who were in dual FP. I was very happy. Do you know who the guany dice are, ours? 20_per_cent. Do you know what it means, that the State is at the middle of the 3_per_cent and we, the year passed, at 18.4? That there are people who are at zero, in the State – there are people who are at zero – and I am deeply sorry – and I am deeply sorry. Because the bet that was made in Catalonia for dual FP, which is better – and here we are – is good. Miri, course 16-17 we had a 10-per-cent in dual FP; 17-18, a 12-per-cent; past course, an 18.4, and from this I can't give the data, yet because the FP has different registration and stability processes..., we'll be at 20_per-cent. Is this the 30_per_cent that the European Union is asking us for? No, no, No, but we have bid, in three courses, from 10 to 20. We see each other in color, like the country – not as the department, but as the country – to arrive at 30, and help the rest of the State improve the middle. But, obviously, the rest of the State must also be posed – the rest of the State must also be posed – and we must not be hindered. 64_percent of the centers that deliver FP dual FP fan. We need to make sure there's more centers. We'll never have them all, because there are a few specialized FP studies that their way of practice is not and will never be the dual. And 40 percent of the cycles we offer have the dual option. I'll say the same again: Dual FP for us is very important. In such a clear way that we work with companies, why the basic model of dual professional training that we have just closed, where have we closed it? To the Catalan Council of Vocational Training. Who is there, in the Catalan Council of Vocational Training? Foment, Pimec, Commissions and UGT. Therefore, this document, which will allow us the better of the dual FP that I told you that we have to do, we made it, hand to hand, the Government, Foment, Pimec, Commissions and UGT. And this compromise will serve us to improve the dual FP – which means more dual FP, better dual FP – and to get to these European midfielders. Dual VET is not the only possible FP, and in some cases it is not the recommended FP, but I insist that for us, vocational training is very important, and we have given it, these data. And he was talking about Martorell's case. Martorell's case we deeply regret, but Martorell's case will be solved. At these very moments we have a meeting, and last week we had a few. I met with the board of directors of the FP, Foment, Pimec, Commissions and UGT to talk about Martorell. I met Martorell's mayor to talk about Martorell. People from our department have met with the SEAT, now they're meeting with Eurecat, to talk about Martorell, and the course you need to be open, the center. The center is already open, but it's not open doing what it has to do. What's the department's opinion? The opinion of the Department of Education has been expressed to the Government, together, to social workers, to SEAT, to Eurecat, to the automotive cluster. The Department of Education..., not the department, the workers of the FP of Catalonia, well, the professional teachers of the FP, have the talent and the expert..., from helping who will be doing the academic and pedagogical management of the center to being directly focused on the center. The Department of Education, with its professionals, from the FP, from the country, has the talent and the expert and the knowledge to do it. What would be better, what are we proposing and working for? So a joint action of the Government, the Department of the Presidency, the Department of Enterprise, the Department of Labour and Education, the cluster of the automotive, the automotive companies, and, if appropriate, some university and the same Department of Education, with the expert to pull it forward. But as the department we want this to work in full performance in September, and as the department we're willing to do everything. Because, besides, it's not the only case; we have other cases of obvious success. The FP Center of Graphic Arts, which runs through the guild of graphic arts, with support from the Department of Work and the Department of Education, is an example of success – an example of success. And we have a lot of other examples like this. Martorell's, what's going on? That it's bigger the building, it's bigger the continent and it's bigger the places of proper work, because there's no more. But we have experiences, and they're successful. Because I return to say that the experience of professional training in Catalonia, better, is successful – it is better, but it is successful. It's demonstrated in the atur's figures, it's demonstrated in the dual FP's figures. And there are elements that, I insist, we need to improve; that we are working with the board of directors of vocational training, that we are working with social workers and that we need to improve, sense of doubt. First, because we need to always improve, and then, because, as you have said very confidently, we are changing the world, we are changing the labor market, and we need to constantly change that part of the FP that is related to business petitions, which is not the whole FP or the whole FP, but it is a very important part of vocational training. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.197.0	Thank you, Counselor. To do the line is the congressman's turn again. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.198.0	Thank you, President. Well, counselor, the truth is, I didn't think he was so defensive and you were criticizing me. I thought that here the one who made a mike the control of the government was us, the opposition. In a way, I was only asking him for a series of explanations around a fact that we consider very important, and I think that I would put into evidence the structure of my speech and so on, so, well, the numbers that have been used, that have been obtained from their websites, that, certainly, there are some that, effectively, are outdated, we still have numbers of 2017, with which, well, transparency leaves much to be desired, in these subjects, and, then, looking for updated data is always a bewitching work in an environment, that of education, that should be a paradigm of transparency. Also... and you wouldn't want to use a reference that was served the other day, would you? From whom he came out to defend himself, they said, "Who has it more..., eh? , suspense points – I won't repeat the adjective – so, it's a tool, it's a discursive tool that can be interesting, right? For me, the truth is that if the rest of Spain, the rest of the world, are not the same taxes that we have here in Catalonia..., well, the truth is that it can be more or less interesting from a rhetorical point of view, but the truth is that from a formal point of view what we need to worry about is the data we have here, which, in principle, therefore... are the ones that we need to worry about. And when I was talking about the situation of educational emergence... I'm telling you because I'm not inventing data, I'm not inventing it. It's data that there are questions that consultants are making that are dedicated to this topic, and they talk about 80 percent of businesses not finding people professionally prepared. And, so, well, that's, undoubtedly, a system failure – it's a system failure. Because vocational training, education in general, must donate professionals who give sufficient response to businesses at the present time, not in the future or in the past, but at the present time. And that's why we meant that the education system in general – and that's why the initial references – should give a couple of times to the current situation. Vocational training is a mode of the second category. People have a lot of setbacks in following professional training, because, well, in a way, it's something they're not seeing very well. And, therefore, the Government's efforts should be directed towards improving the image of professionals who come from these specialties. We should improve the employability of the resources we have allocated to this educational environment. The vocational training obviously has lower taxes than the rest of the young people who come out of the faculties and other studies, it is true, but the dual vocational training is also certain that it is underused here in Catalonia. We have usage taxes... And the numbers I got are numbers that I got from their statistics, I didn't make them up, I didn't get them from place; I got the numbers from the top-cycle formations, the middle- and top-cycle formations, and they also plug in the other two whites, and they're these, the numbers that come out, they don't come out anymore. And it's a 5-per-cent, and it's the one that comes out. And don't argue either... I don't think I'm discussing data right now, so, percentage up, percentage down. From every angle, we'll find that they're not enough for what they are. Why? Because they don't respond to the needs of the labour market at this very moment. And that means lost investment opportunities, that means lost growth. And it's growing that we could act—take the right steps at the right time and prepare the people to enter the world of work four years from now, which will be this. With respect to the memory model, so, truth, my daughter is now a baccalaureate student and she has to learn a lot of things from memory, huh? I don't know if... But the truth is, we're still basing ourselves, on a very important percentage, on a memory model, aren't we? And perhaps the other competitions, even though they are initially developed, do not have the weight that they should have or that the companies ask, because then they are found with young people who enter the world of work with pretensions or with expectations that are long from those that we find in the world of work. Therefore, a parallel education of expectations in which reality is also important would be that, on the part of their department, they are incorporated, and take the necessary measures to ensure that all this is incorporated, so that there is a much lower level of youth at work than we have now, because, whatever happens to their background, it is unbearable. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.199.0	Thank you, Congressman. Again, counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.200.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman, I didn't put myself on the defensive, did I? I didn't get into the attack either. To see, in the rhetorical opposition-Government, the opposition always considers that the Government cannot say anything, and the Government always considers that its job is to say things to the opposition. But, anyway, let's say, let's skip the parliamentary rhetoric. A couple of things. Téélăl batsillerate is at this time the education segment where teaching by skills is entering more slowly. There is a small problem, which we should solve among all, which is called selectivity. There's this little problem, battling, to end up feeling competitive and not memoristic. And maybe one day we'll all decide, that to get into college, to serve the same system that maybe 50 years ago isn't logical, when in 50 years it's like the university must have changed a lot. But in any case, as if it is not the competence of this department or of this government, let's generally leave it to the table. Next thing. The professional formation, which we believe very much, and which we demand... You must have seen that we have made a campaign, precisely the first campaign that has taken place since a government of the Generality, complete, at a high level, on professional formation, because it is a success. You say: "And you have to take care of the businesses. I've already let Foment and Pimec know that this has to be mutated. We have data, for example, from students of higher cycles of various ways of serving people, who are working in shopping malls, because the offer made by them or by companies, of care to people, is an offer, in times and economics, much lower than that of some shopping malls. And I have already told the companies: "We must better train your workers, but you must return to society in the form of better training, better wages, and also in the form of help to the professional training service. It's mutu: we have to offer them better professionals, and they have to return to us. And here there are gaps that are often not ours, they are from the world of business, but we have to work together. I, in order to make this claim in high view, with pride, with strength, of what professional formation is in our country, will give it some more data. And, of course, if I don't find them on our web pages, that we have a mountain, a mountain, a mountain, and we're working to keep them less, Mrs Sierra and some other Member here also know that with a trick we make data easier, and if they are believed, they can be used. For example, of the higher grade format cycles, between the six and nine months after graduation, year 17– which are the last data we have complete, because we have them with the General Council of Cambres de Catalunya –..., 44_percent of the graduates worked, between themselves and nine_months later; 63_percent continued to study, a 16_percent worked and studied, and only an 8.47 did not do anything. Only an 8.47_per_cent of graduates from the higher cycle of vocational training, between the six and the nine months after graduation, does not do anything. That's a success. It's a success of the system, it's a success of companies and it's a success of society. That's why we believe so much in professional training. And we believe that vocational training is as important a higher education as university students, who must have the same prestige for society and families as university students. Because, more than that, often, for some jobs, form better – for some jobs, form better – and, for other jobs, form with more possibilities of occupation, which is one of the things we have to guarantee, also, to our students. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.201.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on the survey of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio «Perception on the territorial debate in Spain]] [[300-00220/12]] The next question is about the inquiry of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio « Perception about the territorial debate in Spain, and it is presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. Mrs Gemma Geis has the word to put it. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.202.0	Well, good afternoon, President Torrent. Councillor Budó, MPs, MPs... This late, from Junts to Catalunya, we present an inquiry to Councillor Budó to publish the results of the inquiry on the territorial debate carried out by the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio in charge of the Department of the Presidency, the results of which were presented last November. From here he also wanted to recognize the task, for his leadership, for the team work, of the Director General of Analysis and Prospective, Josep Rius, and to give the praise to the whole team. This answer to the longings and concerns of the Catalan society, with this fact to know the perception about the territorial debate in Spain. And at this point, the reflection made by the Professor of Political Science of the University of Barcelona, Jordi Matas, when he said: "Maybe I would be convinced that all those who joyfully make public statements about the political characteristics of certain social collectivities do so in a little more cases to those based on high quality models, which is the best way to know the attitudes, values and behaviors of societies. This statement today is absolutely applicable to hear the opportunity of this. The first thing I can say about this is that it's been completed..., it's of great quality, because, therefore, it's a fact, in Catalonia, to eight hundred people, and also to the rest of the Spanish territory, and up to 3,600 such achievements. And bring us some uplifting and necessary data. Still, counsel, we know that the most effective question is that of a self-determination reference. But, well, as I said before, these longings, these concerns of citizenship, they are not aliens to the government, they are not aliens to Parliament either, because we are compromised with the independence of this country, with freedom, with prisoners and exiles, and with the face of repression. And from here, from the Faristol, I raise my head and see the deep loops. And I remember how, the first day we formed the Parliament, it was sitting next to the Councillors Rull and Turull, and there are still these deep loops. And this deep space serves to unravel the political context and the results of this. We have a Spanish constitution of 1978, approved with soroll of sabers. A constitution tarnished by the constitutionalists, unable to become a useful tool for cohesion, to promote a democratic and just society, which has become a driving force against independence by the powers of the State; a tool no longer used to deal with the current political conflicts, the social and political reptes of this country. A Spanish constitution that has resulted in a wall, a wall to impose a certain model of country, justice, rights and freedom. A constitution that those who protect it have managed to extend from Catalan society. We have a statute of autonomy which, after being approved in reference for the people of Catalonia, was detailed for the Constitutional Court. Now, therefore, we have a statute of autonomy that was decided by the Constitutional Court, a whole omen from which it came later. Then, we have to listen to the Socialist Party, which says that it is necessary to defend the competitions of the State. So, dear, last week they voted in favour of the digital decree, which violates the competences of the State of Autonomy in relation to electronic administration and digital competitions. Therefore, with the new Statute, with the Statute we have now, we have a democratic deficit, but we also have an absolutely scandalous fiscal deficit, the failure to pay the third additional provision of the Statute, a capricious application of Article 161.2 of the Constitution on the part of the different governments that causes the automatic suspension of laws adopted by the Parliament of Catalonia – here, remember the Climate Change Law and the Cybersecurity Law. And, in addition, this should be added to the Spanish Government's failure to comply with all those judgments of the Constitutional Court which are in favour of the Government of the Generality, which are in favour of the citizens of Catalonia. Moreover, we must add the lack of recognition of a plurinational and multilingual state. I am not saying this: this week the Committee of Experts on Respect for Minority Languages of the Council of Europe, which warned Spain precisely of the failure of the Charter of Regional Languages in relation to Catalonia, said this. And, then, of these yearnings we came to 9-N, the first consultation to the people of Catalonia also already related to repression. And this was the first show that repression was the political proposal by Spain. And Catalonia wanted to be ballot boxes, and it didn't repress. But let's move forward in these yearnings to what we referred to and which is transferred to the question: the October 1st referendum, a referendum in which civil, social, digital rights were violated, and the will to vote of the people of Catalonia was suppressed. On September 20, too, with the intervention of the Economics Councillor, with the Jordis in prison, the insider of the fake news, the state report, the riot report. I, meanwhile, more longings, which are reflected in this: presidency of the Constitutional Court of a People's Party activist, colonels responsible for the '1 October German judges of the Constitutional Court, binding the appointment of the General Council of the Judiciary with members of the People's Party – remember the famous whatsapp of Cosidó –, reports of Europe of the Greek on the state of independence of justice. I, after '1 October, arrested, exiled, lack of dialect, lack of neutrality, and that Constitution, more carcass, greyer, more anti-democratic. We had the speech, too, of the king, of the 3rd of October, swallowing the violence. And yesterday we saw it – and yesterday we saw it – at the commission of investigation of 155, when it was said that in the Besamans of 12 October 2017, after the speech of 3 October of the king..., therefore, it was spoken, in the Besamans, of the transport of his SEAT. This is the real neutrality of October 3. And, therefore, this Constitution, this Statute, this international decrepit. And above the sentence, the sentence that convicts by sedition, a crime does not foresee in the context of the penal codes, for example, of Germany, where the criminal right was born and has its origin. Therefore, more discredited for this justice, than it also takes hold of this Constitution. It does not respect the elections to the Congress, the Senate, the 21st of September, the European Parliament... And we keep seeing this dark place. And this Constitution, which has constituted itself as an unchangeable constitution on the part of those who defend it. And the aspects of this... it's a question that, for example, says that the Spanish monarchy is suspected, with a 2 just in Catalonia and with a 4.5_per_cent in Spain. Urnes, and in the monarchy. But, of course, we can't vote on this either. Another reflection of this is the high percentage of people who are in favor of Catalonia becoming an independent state, which is more than 49_per_cent, spending 50_per_cent, while those who are against it represent 41_per_cent. Also the data on those who believe that the Constitution should recognize the right to self-determination of autonomous communities. In this case, we are talking about 68,6_per_cent. And a third date: that 70 percent of Catalans believe that the right to self-determination should be recognized, before 21.8 percent say no. And the fourth, surely, given also transcendental, counsel, is that 81_percent of Catalans and 53_percent of Spaniards would accept the result of a reference, was in what was the result. Therefore, it also seems important to me, this reflection. And that which denotes us is ballot boxes, ballot boxes and ballot boxes, against beatings, repression, because Catalonia wants to vote for its future, wants to vote for the independence of this country. And we've seen this ongoing violation of rights. And Catalonia, what it wants, and what it reflects on this, is that Catalans, when we can, we can, we sort the ballot boxes, we sort democracy, we sort rights and we sort freedoms. And these freedoms, these rights and these antels will not disappear with a placebo dial, with an irresponsible dial. It is fixed that what this reflects, that it is the right to self-determination, this concern on the part of the citizenry..., it turns out that now they are leaving us here, to the Parliament of Catalonia, to be able to debate precisely what forms part of these longings of society. Therefore, he will advise, what we want to ask is what is the Government's position on the impact and assessment of this issue. And also, precisely this week..., put in value that the Scottish Prime Minister once again expressed the will to exercise the right to self-determination on the part of Scotland, right? And, therefore, while in countries with advanced societies the country's presidents can speak of exercising the right to self-determination, here they are still threats, everything is repression, and, when it has exercised..., we have our legitimate government in prison and exile. Therefore, we ask you, Councilwoman Budo, respect this, what is the position of the Government, because we understand that only the capacity to decide of the people of Catalonia, respect for the rights and freedoms, an amnesty for prisoners and exiles, is what we can name, right? , "the longings of the society that reflects this, and we believe that it must be the support of the Catalan Parliament for the action that the Government of the Generality will eventually take. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.203.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.204.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament... You have actually entered the detail of the inquiry; therefore, it will not be necessary to look for the small letter of this study to make clear what the citizens of the Spanish State think. Because, basically, the object of this was also to know what the citizens of the Spanish State think. And above all what they think because it's been a long time since you asked them, on the part of the CIS, and, therefore, from the CEO we have promoted being able to know the thinking of the citizens and citizens of the Spanish State, beyond the spokespersons of the political parties. Therefore, the summary of the conclusions of this study is illustrative, because it tells us that the vast majority of the population of the State is dissatisfied with the functioning of Spanish democracy and considers that the dialogue and negotiation are the best ways to resolve the conflict between Catalonia and Spain. These results of this call us all, without exception, and especially all those who seek a solution to the conflict. They're asking us all, you're independent and you're not independent. The political moment that we are living in is transcendental, and from the Department of the Presidency we wanted to create the opportunity to entrust this matter to the CEO so that we could have this opinion and this perception of the citizens of the State. Once the study was presented, we can say that the decision, that for some it was controversial and that it generated controversy, was completely uncertain. The reality is coughing: the question we made and the result hangs on to the dialog word. And, in relation to the dialog, this concludes that the dialog and the negotiation are the ways of resolving the conflict between Catalonia and Spain that bring back more support from Catalans and Spanishs, even though with some differences: 36,2_per_cent would agree that a query is made, and 68_per_per_cent bet for the State-Generality dialog. In concrete terms, the option of the dialog in Catalonia would count with the percentage of 80_per_cent, and the rest of the State, 66_per_cent. Therefore, approved by a large majority of the population, with the difference that in Catalonia the option of dialog without limits is the preferred one, followed by within the dialog in the framework of the Constitution – but dialog, in the end and in the end. And in the case of the rest of the State, the dialect within the Constitution is the majority, with difference – but dialect, at the end and at the end. Therefore, it is the responsibility of all political parties, Spanish and Catalan, to find solutions. We're being sued for citizenship. Because, in democracy, the right not to dialogue does not exist. And we're talking about democracy. This shows a high degree of dissatisfaction with the functioning of Spanish democracy both in Catalonia and in Spain. It proves, however, that this dissatisfaction is greater in Catalonia, and it marks the trend of two different public opinions. Specifically, in Catalonia a 44_percent of the population is not satisfied with the functioning of democracy, while in the rest of the State this percentage is 31_percent. And our democracy at the last time is not a real democracy either: the loss of civil and political rights, political prisoners, exiles and exiles. And before the question of dialogue? , we often find two answer options: either silence or negative. But, as I said, reality is coughing up, and, without a solution for Catalonia, Spain will remain in an unstable situation. Now, it seems that some people have become more coughing than reality. Maybe we're wondering if what they really prefer is to keep self-locking before they unblock the political conflict with Catalonia. And this attitude, the attitude of denial of the conflict and denial of the dialog on the part of some, is an attitude of no names................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. An irresponsibility that has also led the citizens of the Spanish State to have an entire series of stereotypes about Catalonia and the Catalans who are not sure. The CEO's inquiry also explains to us that many stereotypes about Catalonia have called the Spanish society often due to lack of objectivity on the part of the State and lack of objective data. And so, ultimately, the opinion of the citizens of the State could change if the data – such as fiscal balances, for example – is public, since when there is more knowledge about the reality of Catalonia it is when these negative stereotypes diminish. In short, all the data from this result should not only reflect on us, but also react to us. And how important it is to have these data in order to be able to react, as you know, I brought them to the vice president of the Spanish Government, Mrs. Calvo, so that I may have knowledge. Wait... and we'll be loving if they make her react. For the time being, and for the news we have read from the PSC congress this past week, both the vice president and Minister Ábalos already admit that what is in Catalonia is a political conflict. I hope that this is a first step towards understanding that, if the conflict is political, the only possible way to resolve it is political. People are asking for democracy and politics, from dialogue and recognition. Only with mutual recognition and dialogue will we be able to unlock the current political situation. Only with political and democratic solutions will we end the blockade and the severe institutional crisis. Miri, if already in the first meeting between President Sánchez and President Torra, many months ago, when they met in Moncloa, President Sánchez recognized, also at that time, that there was a political conflict that could only be solved in real political ways, as it is that during all these months he has done everything possible to deny it, to deny the dialect, to deny conflict and to deny the political solution? Why did he cheat so much? So many vintages and vintages... the truth is that the emotions that awaken us are neither good nor reliable nor credible. But, looking at the positive part – that everything and reality, and repression and exile we have to look at the positive part –..., in this sense, I also celebrate the words of Mr.Iceta a few weeks ago, when he pointed out that Catalonia should be recognized as a nation and Spain as a multi-national state. And he said that, before the Catalan crisis, the only solution goes through the dialog, the negotiation and the pact. I'm delighted to hear a socialist voice refer to Catalonia as its birthplace, because this is the first step in recognition as a political subject. As I said, we are at a transcendental moment; that the dialectics are not only in aesthetics. We are in a transcendental moment and the world looks at us. And I am sure that it would not be understood that the Spanish policy continues to block political and democratic solutions to resolve the conflict with Catalonia. Precisely a few weeks ago, the Daily Europe button, one of the main references of the institutions of the European Union, proposed to send a small team, mandated for the European Union, to start a certain mediation between Catalonia and Spain. The same butllet also recalls that Charles Michel, who will be the President of the European Council from 1 December 2007 onwards, and who was Prime Minister of Belgium in 2007, after '1 October, has already asked to open a dialogue with a European international media outlet. If the demand for dialogue is a cry outside the Spanish State, but the dialogue, the political path, as the CEO tells us, is also the majority opinion of the Catalan and Spanish society, if that is so, what do we expect? We need and want dialy. A dialog that starts from mutual recognition, which means recognizing the point of view of the other, which means being able to talk about everything without limits, which means the idea of reaching compromises. A dialog that is real and in which the commitments made are effective. We want a government-to-government dialog, a peer-to-peer dialog, from president to president. A dialog that makes democracy possible, because without a dialog there is no democracy. We hope that yesterday's call, in which President Torra requested a meeting of President Sánchez and President Sánchez agreed to make this meeting as soon as possible after the investiture..., we hope that it will be the beginning of a new stage of dialogue between governments to resolve, from politics, which is a political conflict, which is, in the end and in the end, asking us not only the citizens of Catalonia, but also the citizens of the Spanish State. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.205.0	Thank you. [[Question to the Government on the tariff model of the Authority of the Transport Metropolità]] [[300-00221/12]] The next question is about the tariff model of the Metropolity Transport Authority. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Eduard Pujol. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.206.0	Good afternoon, President Torrent. Members of the Government, Councillor Calvet, Members of Parliament... This late, honourable Councillor de Territori, des de Junts per Catalunya, let us take advantage of the formula of the parliamentary inquiry to ask what is the government's understanding of the tariff model of the ATM, of the Autoritat de Transport Metropolità: what do you think, what do we need to know, why this model and not another... Today, in short, we ask you about the new tickets for public transport. As easy as that. But before I leave it like this, if we stay with these four questions, it will allow me a series of reflections. One, context: we can discuss whether Catalonia is born or not, or if we are something else. We could talk about it hours; in fact, we talk about it hours and hours, and we often don't agree. Nor does it seem that we agree with the time to admit the natural repression of the State. We can argue – and it's a rhetorical question, don't let the scientists in the room come to me and march indignant –..., we can come to discuss whether the Earth is round or flat. And even we could do dialectic fencing defending that the cell is black on a grey day, or whether the Vallirana variant, counselor, was done at a time remembering or not. If I'm in such a hurry, we could also engage in the discussion of how Rossini canelons are doing, now that Sant Esteve is down. But there is a certainty that it does not allow – it does not allow – discussion, and now I speak to them without any margin for irony: ladies and gentlemen, we are part of a planet that is carrying us to forced marches, and we are carrying us to forced marches the conditions that allow us to live there. We have a climate emergency, as we have often denounced, that even the most backward of the class would not be able to argue seriously. This needs to save us, not continue for an intransigent and irresponsible path that leads us to chaos, ask us all. The climate emergency, the contaminant, the estop... is a universal cry calling for everyone to become aware of it. It is a global problem that requires, as a matter of urgency, local consciences, and that this consciousness is collective and also individual, that you ask each of us and that you do it in personal, intimate, non-public and also in public life, which is our responsibility. And now I'm not just talking about politics, which we're all part of, but I'm talking about everybody, all of us. We have a problem that knows no frontiers, that knows nothing about languages, not so much about ideology or political or moral thinking. The society in which we live is in danger, and every one of us must not become aware. Let's stop talking about topics: environmental awareness, the need to be aware that we have a problem and a big problem, it's not about topics, not about corbats, not about shivs, not about the rural world or about the great city. And this also calls upon the governments, the countries, the states, to all, the great, the small and the ones we want to be, the ones to be; the towns and cities of this country, in Barcelona, in Catalonia, in the State and in Europe. We have a problem we can't store; we can't look at another band, we have to stay. So far, counselor, the first reflection, which I'll then have connected with the second; a first reflection that I should find the unanimous complicity of this entire chamber. The second reflection speaks of the people, their needs and their dreams, of being able to sort personal recourses without looking at the map and without being about whether the bus line is the one that goes to the hour, the one that does not go or the one that will never go there. The second reflection I make about a society that is defined as the information society, an information that is above for connectivity. Today we live in the network, communicate, with the support of technology. We live in the network, we relate to each other in the network and right now, we're here and we're talking to someone who's there, very far away; with a mobile in the hand there's no difference, or it seems, it does the effect, that there's no difference. There is no distance for images, for words, for gestures. And this connectivity, effectively, this world based on technological support, grinyola, jockey, when we come out of this reality full of virtuality and land – oh, dear – to physical society, to reality, the reality of day to day, to go to study or to meth, to go here or there. Today, Councillor Calvet, I will not ask you for the great projects, for the great strategic plans of mobility of the Government of Catalonia for the next few years; today it does not touch. Today I will not defend the need – which I think is a real need – that one day the railways arrive in Lleida for the axis of the N-II of Igualada, nor how important it will be the day that the lane does not stick to the plaza of Spain – and you know it better than anyone – and arrive at placidia plaza, here in Barcelona, to touch the pillow. Today I simply recognize the jump that this country – because we have to recognize it, this jump –..., the jump that this country has made in the last thirty years in mobility and also in public transport. Today I will not criticize – today – any more than the account, nor ask myself why dearly it cannot work with the quality standards of the railways. Today I will be gone, even though it is a question that I ask myself often and that I would not be able to answer, if it was not for the permanent irresponsibility, supported and neglected of the State with Catalonia. I'm limited to certifying the jump that's taken place in mobility issues. We have made this great leap of quality, but we also have to admit that we still lack many things. We've got a very important job ahead of us, and we'll do it. It is limited to defending what is obvious and what you and this government share: the need to have a public transport that allows us to move both natural and flowing to where we want to go. Public transport cohesive societies, fosters individual potentialities, eliminates territorial inequalities. Public transportation is a great building tool of the country we want. Public transport has to work well, it has to work well and it has to work well at all times – by road, by bus, by train, by zipper, by tram. There can be no two Catalonias, the one that has a good public transport and the one that does not have it. And this is where the confluence of the first and second reflections is above: in a world marked by communication, by change, by mobility, by the need to be and to arrive at everything, public transport is a central piece, counselor, for the day-to-day people. And, at times, in a world marked by the climate crisis, which devours and evils the planet, in a world threatened by pollution, public transport is, must be a central part of the priorities of all governments, also of our own. We are ahead of a climate-emergency context and we need to be more demanding than ever. The current context demands an effort from all of us, from all sides – I have already said – individually and collectively. If we have a better transport, you compete in frequencies, ambitions in times, with subscriptions that are usable, that cover the whole territory without any black holes, we'll get people to use it and we'll promote environmental values. Going by train, counselor, bus, can't involve an extra effort, a heroization; you have to agree. We don't want here, we want citizens who can move freely through the territory, all the way, who can get there where they want to get there. We want citizens who, using good public transport, can be co-responsible and participate in sustainable mobility. From our parliamentary group, we understand public transport as one of the pillars not only of environmental policies, but also of social policies: pillar of environmental policies, so as to reverse the difficult, extremely serious situation of CO2 emissions, and social ones, because we have to make society as a whole, without exception. Sustainability and communication, sustainability and community, sustainability and civilization; this is the challenge. And proof of that is tomorrow's approval, on the part of this Parliament – let's hope that it arrives, this approval – of the amendment of Law 16/2017, August 1, on climate change. Counselor, I have begun my intervention by unveiling where I wanted to arrive; I have already unveiled my cards, which you ask me to plant, but I come back. We have an integrated tariff system, with different titles that can be adapted, or sought, to all the needs of every city. We have some titles, all of our lives we have said, "Bitlets, which make the use of metro, bus, tram and train compatible both of the Railways and the Rodalies of Catalonia. Now it has advanced into a new tariff system that has to culminate – you know, it has to culminate –..., the culmination with the price integration and the application of the T-Mobility project. For this reason, Councillor Calvet, we ask you what this tariff system consists of and how it stood. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.207.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.208.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... Mr. MP, thank you very much for focusing this inquiry on the new pricing model of the integrated system within the scope of the Metropolity Transport Authority in the climate emergency. Many thanks, because it is precisely about this, it is about being able to deal correctly, with the greatest ambition, with this climate emergency that we live in, in Catalonia and on the planet. We often say that the climate emergence has three great powers of action: one is energy transition; the other, the circular economy, and the other, the decarbonization of mobility. And in the decarbonization of mobility, obviously, it is possible to have a more sustainable mobility. And in the reception of the most sustainable mobility, so, there's a lot of ingredients, huh? There is obviously a more efficient transport of goods in railway modes; there is a collectible transport or by taxi, also, with discretionary use also more efficient; there are obviously plans for the mobility of companies. But above all there is an ingredient that is the main one, which is the dish of the most sustainable mobility, which is the most and best public transport – most and best public transport. And you said this: public transport is obviously one of the pillars of environmental policies, but also, and above all, of social policies. And, indeed, we approved– in fact, we approved last week–, in the area of ATM, a new tariff model, a tariff model in the area of ATM, of the Authority of Transport Metropolità, which I would like to remind you that it is a consortium where there is the Generality, the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona and the Assembly of Barcelona. This tariff model is part of a global policy that must lead our country towards sustainable, more efficient and safer mobility. Tariffs are not an occurrence or an improvised decision. The tariffs are part of a strategy that has been accompanied by two more factors, which are very disruptive, and all start the 1st generation of 2020: one is the area of low emissions to the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, and the second is – and you are referring now, too – the new CO2 emissions tax on vehicles. Obviously, this will also have to be reinforced in the services, an expansion of the passenger transport infrastructure that we carry forward – we have these pending dues – in a decisive way, obviously depending on the presuppositional parties with which we rely. But we assure you that public transportation and the promotion of its use are on the government's priorities, at the expense of housing and health or education. We have a model that works. Last year the ATM first exceeded 1,000_million journeys– 1,000_million journeys. That's 2,7 million citizens, huh? , that they use public transport every day. This represents dropping out of the atmosphere 2.5_million_of_tones of CO2; 2.5_million_of_tones of the total of 45 that emits Catalonia are many tones. If all this public transport, which we have to serve these 1,000_million journeys, is done in private transport, that would obviously be unsustainable. The system last year held a presumption of 1,875_million euros – little joke. Of these EUR 1,875_million, public subsidies totalling EUR 985_million were provided, precisely through the consortium and other forms; only within the scope of the ATM, EUR 754_million were provided. Therefore, we are talking about very large gauges, which use this robust public transport system and which we still want to make more robust. We have an additional effort from the State, in these contributions, but this would give for another inquiry, as you also pointed out, the service that Rodalies de Catalunya provides, through Renfe, supported with Adif infrastructures; this would also give for another inquiry..., today we will not talk about this. But, in any case, the new model... Let's take a few years to see, a short time to see from this 2019: a regular user of public transport will have a personal title, a title contained in a tag, without contact or in a mobile application, which will validate at the entrance and exit, between two points anywhere in Catalonia, from all over the country. The system will target the journey and the distance covered, and, at the end of the month, it will charge to the bank entity in which the user has domiciled the payments the invoice, an invoice that will result from a combination of journeys, frequency and distance of each journey: as the higher the frequency, the lower the unit price resulting, and, if you have right to a bonus, obviously the corresponding share will be discounted. This is the model, this is the model we intend to reach with the deployment of what the T-Mobility will be. It is obvious that there will be other options for title and payment, but in any case, the trunk offer will be this. This will be a while from now, but we have to start making passes. Last year, for this 2019 we already made a pass oriented in this new model of the T-Mobility, which was the flat rate to the area of the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona. And, on this occasion, by 2020, we have made a second pass, this partial reform of the tariff model, which points to this line. And that's why we created, created... the board of directors approved the creation of the T-usual, a T for unlimited travel for thirty days. It has reduced respect for the predecessor – which was the T-mes – by: for the trajectories of an area, from fifty-four to forty_euros; for the trajectories of two zones, from seventy-two to fifty-three_euros; from three zones, from one hundred to seventy-five_euros... It is a substantial decrease, of 25_per_cent. In reality, the trunk offer is complemented with two other titles; the T-usual is the main one, but there is also the T-16 and the T-young one. The T-16, totally free, because we have eliminated the emission costs of the target at least in the first issue – if it is lost and is to be reissued, then yes, it will charge a small fee–, and the T-young one, which has fallen to eighty euros for trips from one area; in the case of two zones, from 142 to 105; in the case of three zones, from 199 to 147... I will not be with all the zones, but I do not want to explain only the rates of one area, because the scope of the ATM now – that we will overcome – has six zones. All three, the T-16, the T-young, and the T-usual, at reasonable prices. If we follow the medium of a T-young and a T-mes in the past, if we now carry it to the price that we have approved for 2020, we will have a price per life, of the three trunk titles of the system, of the T-16, of zero_euros, it is not worth anything, it is a free cost, it is a title that intends to create the habit of public transport in the underseven years, and indeed there is someone more than seven years because it lasts until 31 December of the year in which you complete seven years; of 0.48_euros per life in the case of T-young, and of 0.61_euros in the case of T-usual. They are competitive prices, very comparable prices – and, I insist, competitive – respect the European metropolitan areas with which we can and want to compare. The rest of the titles for frequent users have been suppressed to lead to a progressive simplification of the range of titles, precisely for that willingness to go to those individual titles of the T-Mobility. It is obvious that this trunk offer does not cover everything, it cannot cover everything, and that it can give answer to other requests, but it should be warned and assumed that the list of all citizens who use public transport is so varied that there cannot be a title for each situation; we will overcome it with T-Mobility, but now we cannot find a title for each situation. Notwithstanding this, this new model will have a glue of specific titles to give response to certain needs. Starting with T-caseual, this title that will serve to give you trips to validate during a single year and which, therefore, will give response to people who use public transport sporadically, in a less frequent way. Clearly, if we compare it to what was the T-10, which was at 10.20 for one area, now this T-caseual goes to 11.35 – and, I insist, for one area. Continues to be a very competitive price: we have pushed the unit price from €1,02_euro to 1,135; continues to be a very competitive price that also helps, in this case, reward citizens' titles that use public transport as a basis for their mobility, the T-usual, to which they referred. And more specific titles: titles for single-parent families and names, which are all maintained; multi-personal titles, which are T-group and T-family. We certainly did not initially think about this last one, but we made adjustments to find that there were people who claimed to travel in this way; therefore, we also created the T-family, which will offer eight trips to make in thirty days. We will pay close attention to the use of these targets, both the T-family and the T-group, in order to make any adjustments. And unique titles, such as T-day, T-green, T-air, T-casual/airport or the Ripollès and Berguedà pack. At the same time, a whole range of titles that have to make our public transport a more robust system that responds to this climate emergency we are experiencing. Thank you very much, honourable Member. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.209.0	Thank you, Counselor. Isn't there a reply? [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell give up using the word.]] [[Question to the Government on the Catalan minimum wage of reference]] [[300-0223/12]] The next item is the question to the Government on the Catalan minimum wage of reference, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. He has the word, for the presentation of the inquiry, Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.210.0	Yes, President, good afternoon. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, Mr. Chakir El Homrani, Mr. Counsellor, I believe it is natural that this intervention should begin, this question is raised in a positive light, in a way, if I may, congratulating the Government on the initiative of calculating and proposing a minimum wage of reference to Catalonia. This is the concept: « minimum wage of reference to Catalonia........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Surely everyone must agree that it is the objective of the proposal: to enhance a catal framework of labour relations and to equip it with an instrument, a tool that gives it meaning and gives it effective force with all the potential; a catal framework of labour relations, a framework that brings us closer, therefore, to a greater coherence between these concepts that we use so much but that it costs so much, in other words, to make coherent, precisely: social concertation, quality occupation. And it seems to me that this initiative has value beyond the 1.239_euro xifra, that perhaps it is the picture that comes more prominently to us, more graphically, but that seems to me to be less important, or that it is more important the criteria that are behind it, and the criterion is 60_percent of the average wage that the European Union recommends and that it is the one that has been working at the time of establishing or formulating the concrete proposal of what should have been behind the concept of'minimum reference wages'. This is obviously going to have to be updated so as not to be out of date, and that it will have to be done without giving place to spectacles or political conditioning, huh? It seems to me that proposing this minimum wage of reference, counselor, is a brave and timely initiative in many lands, eh? Worthy, because it adheres to a basic variable of an economy, wages, which has effects on occupation and social welfare, and which is very obvious its central, basic character. And it is opportune that, since the crisis, and the last years and the evolution, we have seen how GDP was recovered, these great magnitudes and other basic parameters, but we have seen that the number of jobs also improved, but not wages, wages have been clearly tightened, and we have seen, as a consequence, how that famous percentage of what we call "workers in the poor or poor of workers" increased. And this initiative is, therefore, a direct response to this situation, a poor woman who today suffers at least 14_per_cent, 14 and demand per cent of workers and workers, and a response to the precariousness that negatively characterizes our labor market. The paradox of the Catalan economy could be said to be precisely this, huh? A relatively high GDP per capita, which is as a result of an occupation rate over the European average, but with a product and a wage per worker that is very low. And we still have a hard time, certainly, but maybe it's because low wages make you look for a job that you shouldn't, maybe. You're asking us this question, huh? Education advisor, it also seems to me that you have to share this reflection. The more than sixty thousand young people of seventeen and said years now that they are working or looking for work perhaps better than they are looking for work and can continue to study or are actually studying in one or other formatting process that would guarantee them better occupation in the future. Maybe you shouldn't do it if your peers win or if your family gets enough pay. For this reason, just as we sometimes talk about good cholesterol and bad cholesterol, now we can also talk about good competitiveness, derived from an added value and decent wages, and there is one of pain, competitiveness, sustained in a low value added and with still lower wages. In establishing a minimum wage of appropriate reference to the conditions of the Catalan economy, of higher productivity and higher costs than the average of other communities, the Government of Catalonia is taking a decisive step to prevent this bad competitiveness, that is, we are encouraging a sustained economy, effectively, in high value added and decent wages. Mirin, highlighting in the European race of poor workers couldn't be a proud move, could it? We can't trust the redistribution either. The real struggle against inequalities, let's say clearly, starts with predisposition, is to say, for wages that shrink a major part of the benefits that work contributes to generating. It is true that Catalonia today has no legal competence to impose a minimum wage. It's something we'll have to have, which we want and which I'm sure we will, but in any case what we do have is legitimacy and – let's also say clearly, even more so – the fixing of wages, starting with the minimum, is desirable that it be fruit in the first term of the same social concertation. That is why I am surprised by the enthusiasm we saw in the opposition groups the other day when the Vice-President explained this proposal. Some who shouted: "They will not be able, they will not be able, they will never be able to do so! , as if it is only dealt with by a matter of legal rule and competence, to approve it. They seem not to understand what social concertation means, political initiative and institutional responsibility, like so many other countries. It is not enough for good businesspeople to have the unfair competition that they can do bad businessmen who are willing to choose to lower wages, or for the trade unions to agree that while they are making an agreement, they will be forced to pay less than an inadequate minimum wage. Neo-liberal theorists have mocked economic planning by the failure of radical Soviet planning and, today, given the failures of a market without government, it is again under a new anglicism, the forward guidance, which today we could hear or translate as indicative planning. I guess you're where you are, huh? The minimum wage of reference that is proposed to boost the government we understand is precisely this: an indicative planning menu to facilitate its pocket for social and economic agents. Now you have to wait and see what, and when they do, and that's the thing, counselor. This is exactly what I hope, that you will also help us now in your answer, to begin to see how it will become tangible. How do you think, Counselor, that this initiative will take real shape in the concertation tables, in the negotiations of sectoral agreements or business? Or, also, when will we see the first tangible effects on the living conditions of thousands of workers in our country? And from another point of view, Counselor, also in his condition as a member of the Government of Catalonia, because I believe that it is an element of this initiative, as they think to develop this concept of minimum wages in all that it has to do with the Catalan public sector, especially in the contracting of services with the private sector from public administrations? Here there is a clear ground of initiative and regulatory implementation that is perfectly possible. To finish, leave'mfer a final reflection. We have a new opportunity, now, with this initiative to show the value of a certain attitude that is already a defining trait of our country. In the last two years we have been able to articulate and sustain a deep alliance between society and institutions, between citizens, governments of Catalonia and joint ventures. We have seen this in the future, in the growth, in the maintenance, in the consistency with which we are focusing a project of collective emancipation, which would not be understood without this deep alliance between society and institutions. The minimum wage of Catalan reference offers us a new – I think, counselor – and a magnificent opportunity to put this very concept in the service of an objective as important and as sensitive as the quality of life and dignity of our workers, our workers, our citizens. I hope, therefore, that we are effectively on condition that we put this social alliance into the first... social and political arena, certainly, because it must involve everyone: it must involve not only the institutions, not only the governments and the administrations, but also the entrepreneurs, the workers, the unions, their representation. And I am convinced that this is the way that has not been started, because there are many initiatives in this sense long ago, but we do now have, indeed, a fertile land, a land that I am convinced that we will see the results soon enough. Thank you, Counselor. Let us wait for your reflection on these questions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.211.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, the words of the Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, the Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.212.0	Thank you, Vice President. Councillor, Members, Members... Deputy Maragall, we are open, and we have opened it fully consciously, with a political will, a debate that is absolutely necessary, that is the debate on the wage reality of our country, on how we have emerged from a crisis from a continuous wage devaluation and how to emerge from this crisis from this continuous wage devaluation has made that, when macroeconomic data have been positive, the reality of citizens and citizens, of families, has not. And I wanted to open it in a very conscious way. We had it on the Board of Governors, we had it on the Board of Labour Relations, agreed with employers and unions, and we should be able to address it with a thorough analysis document on which the Catalan reference wage represents and which the minimum wages represent in the various models throughout Europe. The first thing I want to do is recommend reading this report. I think it's a well done report, and that, beyond the ideological position of every one of us, it makes us see how the social contract has been broken, like the job, which must allow us to emancipate, which must allow us to live in conditions of dignity, but now it does not complete this command, this function. You said this: we have a reality that we must be able to face, which is more than 14 per cent of workers and workers in poor situations. And from the government, and especially from the department that I'm close to coordinating, in coordination with the Department of Economics and History, we wanted to stay wired to the needle. In what way? So working the analysis, working the various methods of quantification, they are aware of the effects and, then, incorporating, from the social concertation, economic and social agents. That is why the first presentation of the document was made in the case of the Labour Relations Council: it was where it was close and it was close. And, if I may say so, I have certainly had some readings on the document and the proposal, readings that may have been shown, one, ignorance of the rules and of how the labour market is built; two, ignorance of the work that can be done through concertation, because, just as we can do this work through concertation, work has been done. This very year, in the case of the Labour Relations Council, it approved, with the agents and the Government of the Generality, the non-use of multi-serve enterprises taking advantage of what labour reform allows, which is that the business agreement has legal superiority over the sector agreement, and in order to avoid this situation we have worked on the Labour Relations Council. And yes, we don't have competitions, in the normal mark of work, but the concertation allows us to overcome in some cases these limitations. Just as no one stretched their hairs before this good news, I think that everyone should, like at least, set up this debate, and this debate in a very serious way. In the last forty years in the Spanish State the minimum interprofessional wage which has been devalued has been acquired, devalued a year ago, and we end up in a reality which is not acceptable. And we did it for social justice, but we did it too, and we did it for economic efficiency, and we did it for economic efficiency. It is demonstrated: societies and countries that only understand competitiveness from low wages are countries and societies with very low economies; in change, when they have the role to play in wage keeping, economies are more powerful, and affect both levels of consumption and other levels. I think it's interesting that we look at the affect and profile of people who might be affected. With the calculation of 1.239 euros at fifty cents..., which is a simple calculation: it is to do what the Parliament of Catalonia has asked of us on many occasions, and approved in the Parliament of Catalonia, are the recommendations of the European Parliament, are the recommendations of the European Council. This represents a 31_per_cent of the country's workers. Now that we are in a curious debate about what it is and what it is not middle class, we take into account what represents a 31_per_cent of the population. But it is an incident that potentially has more strength in some collections: in women, and what I say in an ordinary plethora framed in the Plethora extraordinary about the situation of the woman is very important. Let's remember: the wage rate is 23_percent for young people, for those who enter the labour market first place, for those employed in the primary sector, until we have done territorial analysis, and this proposal is more affected, and it is more relevant to Lleida, to the Lands of Ponent, because there are also territorial inequalities, and that many Members and Members of us remember it day by day. Can they do it? For various lives, they also apply it to ourselves. To the law of measures we want to introduce the tools that allow us to quantify the contract and the concertation that the Generalitat does to have a rigorous, legally secure map of all the affect, and once we have this map with everything that means economically we can work on the plan to reach this amount. And it's probably gonna have to be temporary, because we don't have good resources first, but it's time and it's time we work. We have also done an analysis of the Generality's workers and workers, and the affectation is very short but we will also approach it. And especially what we want to achieve, in the same way that it has been around the multisectorals, an element that has not been achieved in the State, that the Catalan employers and unions have come to this agreement, that there was neither the will to change labour regulations in the State after two years of incomplete promises, to be able to place this full road. So right now the study already has members of the Labour Relations Board, they're analyzing it and we'll start working around its implementation and agree how it can be implemented. But we think it's absolutely key in all aspects, and I think that the importance of the concertation can't be given so much by wisdom, and especially before the statements I've listened to, until some people say that the government, as always, leaves the responsibility to the companies. It's clear to me, on the part of a person that his party has the responsibility to govern the State. Let him know that the minimum wage, yes, at the state level, marks the government and pays for the businesses; it is that this happens all the time, it is that it forms part of the co-responsibility to generate a cohesive community, it would just be missing – it would just be missing. And this is the reflection we want to do: we can't afford a country model that with work you can't live with dignity. And we don't want to get into other debates either, but today we have had a lot of debate about the country's economic and industrial situation, as long as you don't want to go into this debate and set your position. But beyond the skills or skills we have, we have to use all the instruments we have, and concertation is an instrument that, feeling loyal to the autonomy of the parties, we always use to advance around a model of social justice and economic efficiency. And I also want to place it very clearly: we are also making a step forward around the catalyse of labour relations, and so much so, because she is not a woman, and the European social space is not a woman, but Canada or Japan have regionalized wages, and that's all it is, we have to be able to tackle it in every sense. And we are sure that in the case of this Parliament, if we want to have this debate, a debate that has on many occasions been approved without the substantive debate and without the substantive study, now we have this opportunity. And thank them for the opportunity to answer it. And end this statement, which I think is interesting: look at the study, talk about it, criticize it, but look at the study, which I think is very interesting and very necessary for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.213.0	Thank you, Counselor. Is he going to do that? [[Ernest Maragall and Mira give up using the word.]] [[Asking the Government about social needs and demands and assumptions]] [[300-00224/12]] The next item is the question to the Government on social needs and demands and assumptions, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Application - Constituent Claim. Mr Vidal Aragonese has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.214.0	Good afternoon. Today the deputies of the CUP - Creed Constituent are in this where we correspond, which is to the call of the Democratic Tsunami. But we wanted to reconcile this with being seen in this Parliament in order to be able to transfer from what is our inquiry to this plenary, asking that, basically, it corresponds to three elements that could be separated or we could treat them together: for what it does to social needs, for what it does to social demands and for what it does to assumptions. We want to start with social needs and social demands, and we want to start with waiting lists. We will not generate a discussion of data, because the data are what they are and the reality is what it is, but we do want to make a characterization of what these data from the waiting lists mean and what it has meant that from the hand of this government in this legislature there has been a chronization of the waiting lists, unbearable, already from the point of view of the headmaster, specialists or surgical interventions. We also want to remember, unfortunately, that it was intended to talk a lot about a universal assistance of salvation and Catalan sanitation as universal, but we have some evidence that, today, it is not universal: migrant women who do not have work permits or residence permits that today cannot access the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, and therefore a reality that breaks with some of the mantras that are intended to be transferred from the Government of the Government of Catalonia. We give thanks and much, in this sense, to the work table on access to health care, which a few days ago moved us here to some parliamentary group in this circumstance. And also aggravate, as always, the Health Defense Working Group and the White Sea that remembers the day also that it is not only about the waiting lists, but about the entire functioning of the public health system. In the same way, for what it does to teach – and if the answer will be given to us by the correspondent advisor, so perhaps we have more simple to find solutions to it – remember that we still follow a pattern of segregation, segregation for what the private means, that we pay between all and all, misnamed "concerted, that even yet it still separates for gender issues; segregation between private and public, and, finally, segregation, also, and we must say so, between public and public. We asked the councillor about illegal quotas – and we want to insist on this idea: there may be some who are not illegal – who today are covered by the centres and who are not responsible for the lack of funding. And we also want to remember that, along with transforming the reality that we have of public teaching, that we are already beginning to feel, as always, badly, the month of disembarkation, there are potential bonds of lines to public education and, even so, bonds of public educational offer in the form of mergers, and even in the form of some mergers that, like the model, that are the school institutes, can serve in some places and in some circumstances, but that for some realities are transformed into their opposite. All this was denounced by the Groga Sea, told by the unions of the teaching sector, FAPAC, and even educational communities, such as the Mediterranean School, the Barceloneta barri, Barcelona, or the Montigalà School, Badalona. At the same time, we find an answer through social services, and what we have today in social services is widespread col·lapse. Perhaps the paradigm is the situation of the DGAIA, DGAIA where a significant part of the working and working pockets that are still in direct contract are waiting to emerge from this generalized interinitiation reality. Generalized interinitiation, Mr. Counsellor, which affects today, between interinitiation and temporality, more than a thousand workers in the public sector. And we don't just need to advance that we will have calls, we need to ensure that there will be none, of the workers who take more than three years to the public sector, who will lose their place of work, those who, during the last two decades, many of them and of them, have supported our public services. And if we're talking about public services, obviously we can't help but talk about what the so-called "Aragones" law means, in surely correct terms, about serving people. We are not only concerned about, in the project, its content, but also that we are concerned about even what political forces exist that define itself as progressives who are defending the content of this project, first because the transposition of the directive could have meant perfectly that Esquerra Republicana chose a law of internalization and did not choose to do so, it opted for a bill of law that means privatizations. Also because you extend them to us, or in us, that until today they could not be the object of privatization, but above all because many of the same ones that could even be the object of privatization were not, but with legislation that expands the possibilities of privatization will be. Also because in this bill of law we do not want the law, and therefore we have not participated in it, there may have been essential clauses in it, which set out those that would allow us to act before the incompliments with a recovery of the management, on the part of the Administration, and even not only not to compensate the enterprise but the other way around: to file a claim for damages and damages so as to compensate the enterprise. But do you know what essential clauses the bill contains? Cap, zero. This has been his legislative option. As a legislative option it has also not been possible to guarantee the working conditions of workers and subcontracted and subcontracted workers. They have you, with an exact description of the regulations, as enforcement clauses – not the essentials, which are not there, but enforcement clauses – that for what you do to the workers you may or will have to keep the template or keep the working conditions, which will mean your opposite: you may not keep the template or keep the working conditions, and that is what the text of the bill says. And so, the whole bill of law. We can also say from the plenary that we saw yesterday that feminist politicians in need, and many, and in these many we should give even a response to those women who see patriarchal violence in its maximum expression but then they also go to an SIAV and find it absolutely collapsed. We also wanted to talk, and we were listening and hearing the counselor's intervention and his response in the previous inquiry, of the Catalan minimum wage of reference. We will not stand against this reference. What we ask you directly is whether from the 1st to generate all the workers and workers in the Catalan public sector contracted directly already have this salary. Because, if you didn't, you'd be making a deal with the employer and the union for the private sector, but you wouldn't be complicating it with the public sector. Is that what it's gonna be? And that's the question we're asking you, counselor. Or, second question, because you can also do without competition: contracts, management of public services through private management. Is this guaranteed minimum wage application for future contracts? Will it exist or will it not exist? Because, if not, they apply for something for private businesses but when you are a fan of workers or you can introduce amending legislation approved in this Parliament the reference wage does not, and it would be absolutely incomprehensible. Speaking of competitions, of course, we don't want to get the idea that we don't have competitions. We have to give answers, and now we are talking about the area of labour law, and in this sense, too, for the Labour Inspectorate, we would ask them and ask them: you have not yet given any compliments, and we know that you will do so, at the quality of the Kellys, but why is it not going to continue to make a specific campaign in relation to the Piss Cambers? Or, for example, in the face of the permanent exhaustion of corporate bonds that we are having in the country and that we will surely have more – today we have been accompanied and will be accompanied by the workers and the workers of Continental in this Parliament – what answer does the Department of Treball give, for example? We could also question the industry department in this matter. And all this combined in the end what does it mean? It is laborless, lacking in public services and, therefore, poor. And in poor they had a great tool, which was the guaranteed income of citizenship, but it was managed by it that made the guaranteed income of citizenship what it assumed was that there are many Catalans and Catalans that we have right to see it effective..., so it didn't work out. And, therefore, stop applying the neo-liberal service management manual, which is what was given. And lastly, we also want to remember habitat, where it is almost impossible to reach today, where buying is made a utopia and on the day-to-day to which the Government of Catalonia is devoting most resources in relation to habitats is the Mossos d'Esquadra, which sends them to accompany the denunciations. We made a proposal, in relation to habitat, we told them that it was not useful. They told us that they would make other proposals. We're on hold. And we want to end up with some ideas, too. First: there determining, as always, our ability to fight, our ability to mobilize and what will mean popular will versus status quo. But, as always, too, beyond making it clear that the mobilizations in the street and the collective civil disobedience will be the means to win us right, this must also have a formation here – here. They've said a lot, in the last few days, that they needed a presupposition. We give him one thing: we don't just need a supposition, we need a supposition that can give answers to the social needs, not the supposition in abstract. And we've already told them these past forty-four hours, in case someone hadn't understood, that obviously the fiscal or fiscal agreement that they came to for a band JuntsxCat with Esquerra, and for another band the Commons with Esquerra, will not give us a solution for the social needs that will be in 2020: 175_million more will not give us any solution, nor by 2021. Therefore, we are hoping that we can give us answers to how the needs of the Catalan people will be made effective.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.215.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, the word has the advisor d'Educació, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.216.0	Thank you, vice president, deputies, deputies. Mr Aragonese, this is a macro-, mega-, hyper-interpellation, in which you have asked so many questions, so many questions, and so many proposals that, with a certain parliamentary experience, I would say that it is an inquiry made for there to be a motion afterwards, and that the motion, which has all these points, has all these points, that are points that have many departments, very particular policies, very cross-cutting policies..., cannot be answered now, with the time that I have, as you know perfectly well, but they will allow them to shape the motion. It is an absolutely correct, legitimate parliamentary technique that all parliamentary groups have used some time. Therefore, I will not come here now to try to answer them all and each of the questions he has made, which are, moreover, the subject of a general policy debate. Yes, I won't comment on it, and if any of those I can't comment on with particularity on the part of the person concerned, we have the turn of the line. Well, the Catalan minimum wage of reference, which was a reason for the previous inquiry, and that Councillor El Homrani has already answered a question that you have asked, but he may not have answered it with the detention that you would like, and I answer it, because it was also a reason for debate in the Executive Council of this week, and it was a reason for agreement with the Executive Council of this week, so let's just say, I can say it with clarity. In the accompanying law, in the law of measures that will accompany the assumptions of the Generality that the Government will approve at the beginning of the year, and that will be debated in this Parliament, there are measures for the application of the Catalan minimum wage of reference, for a song, contract and concertation; in a progressive and timed way, as it will come out to the law, but there is, obviously. And, in this band, the Government is analyzing how, in the fastest possible way, to apply this salary to the collection of six thousand Generality workers, which we must not do, let us say, the detailed analysis, department by department, serve by service, unit by unit, but the cipher is, more or less, of six thousand public workers who at these times cover under what the Catalan minimum wage of reference marks. And the government will obviously apply the salary to this collection, which, roughly and in a first analysis, is of six thousand workers, and that I can say with this roundness. Other fears he has raised: the law of serving people, that you call the Aragonese law and that I could call the Romeva law, but in the laws, normally, when we put them in a surname, we pervert the option of being in favour of it as the legitimate option of being against it. In the People's Law, a Member of her group in the previous plenary said that there were things that she thought were positive, things that she thought she did not agree with, things that she thought were negative, and that in the balance of her analysis the negative part was more important. The law of service to people in the departments needs it, we need a regulation of these characteristics. Is it better? That's why you're in parliamentary proceedings. Can we put in more guarantees? Better. Is it possible to mark more security in non-externalization, unnecessary, unjustified, etc.? Sure. I explain this: in the Department of Education we need legislation that allows peer and mother associations of pupils, associations of families of pupils, associations of families of children who want to manage school children to continue to do so. The Legal Affairs Committee has just delivered an opinion on behalf of a number of regional councils saying that they cannot do so under current Spanish and European legislation. And the regional councils are telling us: "The Legal Affairs Committee has ratified what some regional councillors have said. And we say to them: "Wait, because we need legislation that you allow, because we want to continue doing so. The law of serving people to us would allow us to make an immediate resolution and put an end to the doubts of the interventions of the local administrations – it would allow us to do so. Therefore, we need it, and not to outsource it, but to guarantee a community use and community management of school teachers – not to outsource it, but to guarantee it. The waiting lists. The Councillor of Salut has discussed it constantly in this plenary, in oral questions and in questions, and I refer to your explanations. For what it does to school segregation, the fight for equity, the work for school equity is a compromise of the department, it is a compromise of the majority of this Parliament through the Covenant of the Synod of Greuges. It is a compromise of all the municipalities of more than two thousand inhabitants of our country through the pact, governed by all the political forces that run together in Catalonia – all of them – and which will have in short two ways: the Student Admission Decree and the Educational Concert Decree. Both decrees are intended to end segregation, to fight for fairness, and, it is true, with all the segregations, even all that are given between the same school of times, and all that is given between the same school of times, and all that is given between the same school of times, those that are given between schools, those that are given between public schools, those that are given between public schools and concerted schools, those that are given between concerted schools, also. And the element of quotas is important, it's cabdal. That's why we're working, we haven't talked to FAPAC, we haven't talked to FAPAES, we'll talk to each other, but obviously we have to set up a _marc, a _marc, which no one can get out of and which, if they do, in the case of the concert school must mean the loss of the concert and in the case of the public school must mean a continuous administrative action. In the Admission Decree and in the Segregation Decree there are also these tools – there are also these tools –, and many of them are located, from the decrees, but with the joints, because the fight for fairness and the fight against segregation we need to do more with the joints. There are other issues that you have raised in the table: the agreement between the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Commonwealth and the Government of the Generality in the field of fiscal policy, starting with a more just and progressive taxation, fostering a solid and sustainable growth and fighting climate change. It is a good agreement, we are absolutely not satisfied: it is just, it is fair and it must give us the tools to present in this Parliament more compelling assumptions in the response to social demands, more efficient in the response to social and territorial needs. In the answer to all of them? No, no, no, no. And you know it, and all the deputies and deputies know it: not all of them. The most urgent, the most necessary, the most efficient? Yes, and so it will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.217.0	Thank you, Counselor. Mr Vidal Aragonese has the word for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.218.0	Counselor, normally in a lot less time we ask many more questions. You probably didn't answer to this subgroup many times, and so I should know. In any case, it is you of the government that triens who answers, and, therefore, to give this answer to us does not seem to us to refuse. Of course I can't answer at all, and we appreciate it, more than that, this sincerity, but it would seem to me that most of the questions we have raised may have been answered, or may have been answered, and we know that some, in addition, will do so on the second return, when we no longer have another reply. We do also want to start with another question, as a reminder. We remember the Tsunami and do not want to forget today that in Northern Catalonia and the French State there is a day of struggle in defense of pensions, and that it has unfortunately coincided with the judgment of a trade unionist, the Gaël Quiranto, a trade unionist mailman, a prominent trade unionist mailman, who is in front of a criminal procedure, and we want to take advantage to transfer all our support to this company that you see, to make trade unionism, in a criminal procedure. And we wanted to start with a reminder of what she was meeting with the Continental workers. Look, they say, and with all due reason, "we're going away frustrated and frustrated because we don't find answers between policies. They are quite right: we need answers, and the answer cannot be that we do not have competences in legislative matters. In fact, in the area of legislative implementation of labour legislation there is none; this cannot be the answer. If there is a government that really believes in their country, it has to believe in maintaining the occupation as an essential issue, and we don't give answers, there are no answers and that can't happen to us. Second question, also important: the answer you have given us from the reference minimum wage. So it is clear to us: for a band, they will study, that it is one of the reflections they make, with regard to a large number of public workers who are a minority that still do not cover this amount. And, second, with regard to concertation, which is not the totality of indirect management forms, but that you referred to concertation, let us see how we do it in a progressive way. Therefore, it is already giving us the answer that the 1st generation of 2020 this salary that you ask that unions and companies are agreed will not yet be effective, and that they will progressively study the application of which they ask entrepreneurs and workers or their representatives, who already do. Also, on the bill and/ or the bill that some call "Aragonese law," we have to say that we obviously do not share, and you have already seen, your analysis that you say: "It is better through the papers. So look, either in the pose they cheat and add in transactional to what cannot be added, or it will hardly be better a question as simple as the essential clauses. That we already did: we chose not to participate in a law that we didn't believe in and we devoted the time that we would have to be gathered in that pose to explain outside Parliament what it meant. And, therefore, it will not be better with the papers, except that someone wants to cheat in the parliamentary process. And then, counselor, with total respect: you do not set the example of the beggars as a need for the law of service to the attention of people for a very simple question: you could also make a specific decree to regulate this matter in a concrete way. Therefore, they do not need all the law. And now I'm gonna ask you a question about two codes, see what they look like, of this bill. Now, I'm sure 8011000/8 won't tell you anything, but then you're going to be teaching school. I'm sure 805900/6 doesn't say anything, but here you're tutoring, and we're not talking about concertation, we're talking about public education being able to do that. Are you in favour or against? Will he answer us today or won't he answer us today? I suppose he'll say he's against it, because if he wasn't in a process of privatization of public education. We'd want to, too, answer. And about school segregation. We have an important difference in conception: we need sorting tools to avoid school segregation, but if there is no more funding, school segregation will be maintained, and you know much better than I do. Therefore, give an answer as to whether there will be more funding for public education or no more funding. And don't tell me: "Yes, there will be more, because we know that there will be more, that it is the growth trend that is mandatory, only if there will be more percentage of the total public assumption or the general assumption dedicated to public teaching. Don't just tell us "there's work, that's the answer we get on many occasions. I mirin, respect the agreement. So for us it's very simple: 175_million will donate for what they will donate, 2020, and we also want to thank him for his sincerity. Finally, for you, what he said to us is: as the answer to everything, "no. And it's obvious that with the answer to everything, no. But we wouldn't even ask for it at all, but to give answers to the most basic needs of the people of Catalonia, than with these assumptions, or at least with the increase in entrances, we won't see it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.219.0	To make the answer is the counselor's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.220.0	Thank you, President. As you respond to interests, to the most basic and urgent needs, you will be able to prove, when the assumptions come into Parliament, what you will find: you will find P3 education, you will find inclusive school, you will find secondary school teachers, you will find elements that are important in the fight against segregation and in the fight for equity. If you ask me: "Will the department be deprived of any educational services? I've returned it. "Would you like to privatize him? No, no, no, no, no, no. « Would you like to make some public service that is now private? Yeah. If you ask me this, this same Ple approved a law that allows to make public some service that is now private, in education, and approved it in this legislature. Therefore, the message is very clear: privatize? No, no, For what it does to the Catalan minimum wage of reference, the 1st generation of 2020 obviously does not because there will not be the premise approved; it is obvious, there it is. When the premise is approved, I return to say: we are not studying what to do with the six thousand workers, we are locating all and every one of these workers to apply them, based on the assumptions that contain the assumption that they allow us, the salary. And for what it does to contracts and service agreements, so, from what progressively we contracts, the revision of contracts, the new agreement obviously allows us, because a contract is also a legal instrument that cannot be reversed for one of the parties. Guaranteed income: we have gone from 65,000 beneficiaries to 124,000. Therefore, we complete more than forty-thousand non-contributory pensions. They're powers of the state, but we're doing it, too. And in this sense, the competition debate is important, because the competition debate is attached to the presumption – because the competition debate is attached to the presumption. And I have to say: we come from an era of economic crisis, we come from a time of retailing, we come from a time of growing social needs, and it is clear that the government needs instruments to deal with petitions, and it is clear that the first instrument is the assumptions, and it is clear that the first instrument of assumptions is the entries, and it is clear that from an entry agreement it is possible to reach an agreement on expenses, and it is clear that an entry agreement that has a concept of progressive and green social taxation can only correspond with socially progressive expenses and with sustainable expenses, it is obvious that it is clear. And I want to take advantage of this intervention on behalf of the Government to thank the work that we have done so far with the Catalan Parliamentary Group in Comú Can, and those that we are doing and what we will do, because they will allow us, if they are in a position as we hope, to present these assumptions to you with these measures. And I say again: all the measures that education in Catalonia needs will not be done in a year. Are we going to take those measures that are most urgent, and they are phonental and basic to give a step forward in deciding to recover from the retail, overcome the crisis and pull forward? Yeah. Let's discuss, you and us, who's not more important than the others? Surely, that's why we're different policy options. They won't be able to tell us not to step forward. We can discuss whether the steps that we formulate are more fair or fair than those that you formulate, but cannot tell us, under the assumptions that we present, that the country will not take steps towards equity and social justice, equity and territorial justice, because they will contain it. We're going to have more social spending assumptions than in 2010, and a recovery from the social spending of the time of the crisis. You'll see. And when the assumptions are here, you can work with us, and the parliamentary group that I support, in its best, if it can be. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.221.0	Thank you. [[Interview with the Government on industrial policy]] [[300-00222/12]] The next question is about industrial policy. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.222.0	Thank you very much, President. He will advise, counsel, deputies and deputies... special thanks, today, to the workers of Continental. He gave the Aragonese company one thing that I fully shared: it is certain that they have expressed their frustration to us, because each time they meet with policies, it costs a lot to find solutions to the fact that a company raises an ERO and threatens to close the company and take out 760 workers, but I think that folds – and it also went for you, counsel – if we wrap our shirt and put ourselves to work folds, we can find solutions in this case, and we can avoid the lock. If the company does not count on its workers, we in Parliament today want to say that we do count on you, and that we will fight with you to defend your places of work. [[Greetings.]] And it's one more case, Continental, but it's one case, a constant exhaustion of cases that show us a clear question, which is that we're losing product fabric in our home. The EROs have dissipated a 76_per_cent from the past year, and it seems that the perspective will be worse for the year that will come. Every year, for decades, the industrial sector has lost its strength, and with it our country's ability to generate production and to generate jobs. And if we do this question to the government today, it's because it's obvious that Catalonia has a hard problem guaranteeing the future of its product fabric. Catalonia has an industrial problem and the Government of Catalonia must assume the responsibility and the challenge of guaranteeing a future for its product fabric. There are words that the cost of having degraded them sounds like industry, and curiously the word industry does not describe any romantic dreams of the 20th century, but describes any proposal for welfare that we can build for the 21st century. And Catalonia, since the Transition, has lost a lot of industry, has lost a third of its industry: if in the eighty years represented 40_per_cent of workers and workers from our home, today they do not arrive practically at 17_per_cent. Forty years dismantling industry and substituting productive economy for speculative economy and service economy. We have replaced a country that produced to guarantee welfare and to guarantee decent jobs for a country that speculates with real estate cylinders and that pretends to make us think that our project of welfare is to serve drinks three months a year and survive the rest. Forty years ago I realized what a minister of industry, Mr. Solchaga, was saying, that the best industrial policy is the one that does not exist. But the crisis also manifested the limits of this project, the limits of thinking that we can build a welfare society on the basis of not producing anything and parasitizing productive sectors as they make the funds of inversion to our home. And, therefore, disinvestment in industry is disinvestment in the ability to generate a minimally dignified welfare state. And what we've done is transform Catalonia where work was a source of integration and welfare for Glovo Catalonia, where 17_percent of the workers– almost half a million of the workers in our home– are poor, and we've moved from Catalonia to Catalonia from the real estate candy to Catalonia, where eight out of thirty years of age or younger live at the home of their parents so that we can place a piss at our home, which means 120_percent of the income. And, therefore, we believe that the crisis has manifested itself, if anyone doubted it in this country, that not defending the productive economy is not defending a future worthy of our country. And Europe did the same thing: when it did Horizon 2020 for the European Community, it said that it wanted, as a minimum, to reindustrialise Europe to ensure that at least 20 % of its industrial economy. And there were different criteria: to recover industry up to 20_percent of GDP with an intelligent growth based on knowledge and innovation, with a sustainable growth that you guarantee and bet for energy transition and for a circular economy, and with an inclusive knowledge, that is not another thing to say that there is enough to compete with Europe to devalue wages and that work must be guaranteed to benefit. And in Catalonia these objectives were incorporated two years ago into the National Pact for Industry. And now that we are half of the pact we have to say that we call its development very unsatisfactory, and above all for four reasons that we consider to be strategic in the National Pact for Industry. The first: we set ourselves an objective of 20_per_cent, 20_per_cent of GDP in Catalonia had to be industrial. When this target was set, the industry advisor of the time said: « Home, in Catalonia 20_per_cent no, because we already have it; in Catalonia we have to fix the 25. Well, we're still down: we're in 17 and we're following the loss of product texture, and so it's obvious that the central objective of the National Pact for Industry, which is to maintain and expand the product texture in our home, is failing. And, therefore, the first question that I will ask you is very clear: do you think that in the first two years of the National Pact for Industry it was possible to reverse the dismantling of the country's product? And do you therefore believe that you have felt government action in relation to the National Pact for Industry? The second objective of Europe, which we share and which also shares the National Pact for Industry, is that growth must be smart, that it must compete to produce things with high added value, betting on research, development and innovation, and not to compete to devalue wages or to produce things with low added value. And the truth is that in research, development and innovation this is worse than when the National Pact for Industry began: we do not even get to the half of the European targets that were set for 2020, which was a 3-percent of the gross domestic product dedicated to research, development and innovation. And we don't just get to half, but we're backwards: we've lost a 13_per_cent in search and development policies to our country in two years, since the start of retail policies. In two years of austerity, we have gone from comparing ourselves with France or Germany in their levels of innovation to placing ourselves on the European periphery and competing with the countries that traditionally invest less in innovation, and what is worse: going back a year later. And not at any point in time, at a time when, basically, the industry needs to make a technological leap to ensure its future product, to ensure the survival of the industries at home and to ensure its competitiveness with the countries of Europe and with the non-Community countries. And, therefore, this leave in innovation policies and in research and development policies is a leave that puts the survival of the same product at risk in our home. And at this point, in ensuring policies of research and development on the rise, only a third of the National Pact for Industry has been developed from the commitments that form part of the National Pact for Industry. And, therefore, the second question that I want to ask you today is whether you believe that your Government's shortcomings in research, development and innovation put at risk the necessary technological leap to ensure the future of the Catalan industry. And I say this basically because there are figures, passing on the degree of compliment of the National Pact for Industry, which has seemed directly scandalous to me, such as that only 0.3_per_cent has been executed in the impulse of an industrial structure supporting 3D printing, which is strategic for Industry 4.0 at home, or that 0_per_cent has been developed neither more nor less than 0_per_cent for research and innovation in leading sectors in the new industry such as graphics, big data, etc.; a 0.3 and 0_per_cent in two years, when we should be, because we are at the middle of the pact, as at least 50_per_cent of developing these commitments. The third issue that has marked Europe and that the National Pact for Industry is sustainable growth. And we have not completed it, in this case, already, nor of causation: we have not completed what supposes to have a 20_per_cent of renewable energies in our house, we have not completed what supposes to increase the efficiency a 20_per_cent of the fabric of our home product nor have we completed, neither, the commitments of the same National Pact for the industry. Today we have completed a little more than 10 per cent of what we proposed to do in four years. And there are no examples, such as the pulse of the electric vehicle, which is at 12_per_cent, or the Energy Efficiency Plate in the industry, which is at 14_per_cent of the compliment, when both should be at least at 50_per_cent. And there might be more examples, but the phone question I want to ask is if you think Icaen has been useful in ensuring the energy transition of our product fabric. And I want to end up with a case that I think is paradigmatic, that's the one from the formation. We have a clear demand for FP for the industrial sector to ensure the necessary training of workers in this production jump and of workers to be incorporated into the industry. And while this sector is insistently asking, we have cases that I think have already hurt to see them, such as the Martorell Automotive FP Center, which, as you know, has a capacity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.223.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.224.0	...for fourteen thousand students, and with this I finish, president, and who only offer courses for fifty students. The last question I ask is whether you think it is a waste that a central industry for the country such as the automotive industry does not have guaranteed or only the formation of its workers, necessary for the transformation of the sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.225.0	To answer the question, has the word "Constellera d'Empresa e Coneixement", the lady Maria Àngels Chacón. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.226.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. I'm glad we agree on one thing, aren't we? , in the concern to defend the work places and the product texture. I would also like to announce that tomorrow we have a meeting with the different parliamentary groups to discuss, precisely, Continental. Miri, I must have felt no one, god, twenty, thirty times defending productive, innovative, inclusive, sustainable and world-wide economy. This is our mantra, at least in the department. And after what you have been thinking, some of the data that you were thinking, it seemed, therefore, that our industry is getting sore, and I think we need to talk about challenges, concrete situations, but not this catastrophic situation. And I'll also tell him something else: it's not his heritage, just defending the workers and worrying about them, because we're busy and we're worried about a lot. Two years ago – two years ago – from the industry department we developed a labour impact study of Industry 4.0, when no one in any case, when we looked at what would happen, and that is what is happening now, with this transformation of the industrial sector. I recommend that I look at this report, in which we have already asked that we should position ourselves in this very important aspect. On the subject of industrial activity, do you tell me or explain it to me? We are industrialists, we are defending the industry of our country, which is in 20.7 of the gross domestic product. And we understand that this industrial occupation..., industrial production and industrial investment have grown steadily until 2019. Now, in this context of global deceleration, therefore, it is also affected. Why do we in Catalonia have more consequences than other territories? So look, because we are leaders in industry: 30_per_cent, for example, of foreign industrial investment we are the leader in the whole of Spain, and because we are more internationalized than the rest. When externally there are elements like this polarization of the economy between the United States and Asia, when there are effects like Brexit, when there has been recession, deceleration, the most industrial territories – we are a – first-hand patim, it is not because there is government left in industrial policies, and I will now refer to it. We are part of a diverse industrial fabric, very diverse, wide and based on small and medium-sized enterprise. Therefore, at the time of seeking solutions for these reptes, we understand that the first one we have to do is simply this: to observe what is happening at the global level in this internationally interconnected economy. I said before: above all, we observe all of them, because here we are in Europe, which is going through this great trade war for knowledge, and now we will also talk about it, between the United States and Asia. And if that's the case, we have the fourth industrial revolution, which is transforming our product models in a very fast way, introducing new technologies. Therefore, we must be prepared to change very quickly, exponentially and on a scale we have never seen before; therefore, we must be aware of this context. Before, in the 19th century, he said the other day, the companies were created to have a life cycle of twenty to thirty years. So look, in the 21st century all this is altered: there are companies that only need to live months. What do we want? No, but we're aware of what the context is. Because the future of companies for us – we have it clear – is the future of its workers, and it is certainly very easy the rhetoric of opposing company and workers. Miri, we're a small and medium-sized business, or here we're all out, and workers and entrepreneurs... and I'm not talking about speculator and finance deals, neither are we defending. So either we work together or we don't stand up to all these setbacks we've got. On the National Pact for Industry, the compliments, if we take the percentage of 100_per_cent, the last ones we have, informed to the Català Council of the Enterprise, are of an 85_per_cent compliment. This percentage that we need to complete..., in some departments is 100_per_cent, in many of the apartements of Action is 100_per_cent compliment, in others not. And do you know what's missing many times? It's just the economics. And do you know what's going on with us? That we have some extended assumptions. That's why I'm celebrating, I hope we're tanking the assumptions, because many of the parties, like one you thought, which is the 3D printing reversal, are directly linked to the assumptions. And we can't, there was no other way... And now I'm going to tell him what we're dedicating the resources that we have now... to make according to what investments, when we have a small and medium-sized company that can adapt to this new context. And that's why we introduced the Proaction program a few days ago, with what we would help with diagnosis, with accompanying, also with financing measures, that these companies diversify their activity and do not need to be one of the ones that have EROs. And it's helping this private initiative – I've said it many times: so they believe and practice this public-private collaboration – as we get out of it. The gang of these punctual helpers, huh? , of Proacción, we have all a plan– today perhaps not the time to talk about it – of specific support to the automotive industry, an industry that, for which it represents, by the name of workers– more than one hundred_forty_thousand workers can see affected–, has a program and will have a specific program. Therefore, doing industrial policies is not just reacting, and we have it clear, when there are problems, that we also have to do – and now I will explain to them how we did – but doing a proactive, reactive and proactive job. With what? The best industrial policy in this context is, as I said, being aware of one's movement. Whenever we talk about the need for social policies... I repeat to them, creating quality jobs is the best of social policies; so, what do we do, how do we continue to grow the number of entrepreneurs? We also remembered a few days ago that the name of companies grows in Catalonia from the middle. With what? So we're still facilitating internationalization and attracting investment. Here, for example, a given: more than 20_per_cent of the nine investments arriving in Catalonia is fan through the forty offices we have around the world. It's detecting what's going on, detecting these value-added projects; we're not managing more than 350, all value-added projects. And the ones we prioritize are those who have quality work places and, as I said, they're not based on policies or bottom-down strategies. We also continue to drive innovation, cluster policy, a cluster policy that is twenty-five years old. Just like we got her killed, huh? , take into account not only those companies that have invested, but whether they are satisfied or not. We have more than 8,600 businesses that have invested in Catalonia, foreigners, and there we are. When there are problems, like what they have presented to us now Continental or others, the first one we have to do is talk and meet with everyone. And we do it discreetly, diligently, respecting confidentiality agreements, because we're not looking for a photo. A picture of us would be super-reducible, but we think we should work harder and try to find a positive solution to the crisis. When we know, when we know, this department, therefore, that there is some case where there may be doubts about the continuity of an activity, when we know, that sometimes it's already a late xic, what do we do? The entire team of the Directorate General of Industry – take advantage to greet the Director General of Industry, who today accompany us – analyze if there are any of the six causes. It can be because production ceases to be competitive in a center. It can be because there is a willingness to move, and I explain to them, too, that Germany is patenting like no one a crisis, a recession, and is relegating a lot of its industry. In this, too, he explained to them the other day: we went to Germany twice to try, so we actually got it, didn't we? Some of these companies aren't leaving here. Also look if he's obeying our reversal projects. If there are labor disputes, and here we enter, so, with the councillor of Afers Socials, also working there. Let's see if there's any financial restructuring, if there's any kind of environmental regulation that can affect them. We talk to the company, with the administrations and look for alternatives that allow us to follow the activity. Let's try to keep the business model going; in case it can't be, let's see that this happens to a few thirds, let's look at the supply chain, and finally, let's help, come up with the case, to maximize what is compensation to the workers. But, and then I'll give you more details in the reply, there's a proactive job and a reactive one. The reaction is triggered when we have news, therefore, that there is this possible impact, this crisis. But let's put it there: in no case will I accept that there is no industrial policy. If it weren't for that, we wouldn't be leading with this 30_percent foreign investment in industry, we wouldn't be having this 20,6_per_cent industrial GDP, when Spain is much and much lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.227.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now, for the reply, has the word the deputy Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.228.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Counselor. I am that at the moment of my intervention I have said that you do not have industrial policy; I think that sometimes, if we prepare the interventions to do more, you end up replying to things that I did not say to you and, above all, you end up not answering me, but not answering the questions that I did. Because an inquiry is that I can ask him and you can answer them, not that you can explain to me what would explain to me in a press wheel, I would also like to say it. It's true, you have industrial policy and you're industrialists. The problem is not that, the problem is not being or not being industrialists, the problem is to be successful or not to be successful, and the fact is that we have lost production in our home a year ago and lost industrial fabric in our home. And what is obvious is that they have increased the EROs at home by 76 percent, most of them linked to the automotive sector, a sector that clearly needs a productive transformation, but the evidence that it needs a productive transformation is not even two years ago. And there are elements on the table, both in the National Pact for Industry and in the industrial policy of this country, which should have been set aside to deal with a situation such as this with much more foresight is obvious. I asked him before what happened with the Automotive Training Centre in Martorell, which had to guarantee fourteen thousand places to train in the automotive sector and to ensure that the workers who came at the time when there was to be a transformation in the automotive sector in our home had the proper qualification, and that this was not an excuse not to lose production lines in our home. What's going on? Because the last thing we know is that this November's bidding process has been cleared. And do you think it will be after years of having one of the most powerful training centres for the automotive sector in southern Europe that is probably still closed? You think it's normal for Martorell's Assembly to say to him, "Should you listen, or leave or the land is mine and I'll leave because it's empty. It doesn't seem normal to me. Just as it doesn't seem normal that we have strategic investments– and I said it before– with 0_per_cent or 0.3_per_cent of compliment, and that they are strategic for industry 4.0 and for the product jump we have to do with the country – it doesn't seem normal to me. You will say: "We had no presuppositions. First, I'll remind you that the industry game on the assumptions that you pulled on the internet last year was going down, and I don't think that's mentioned enough. And then the responsibility that you don't have assumptions, including this year, which looks like negotiations are better, is yours and not ours. We do not have a problem with the National Pact for Industry, we have a problem with your conception of the National Pact for Industry. Because we understand that when a national pact is made it is to give it a priority as country spending and as country investment, and we believe that it is the one that has not passed, that much of the expenditure linked to the national pact for industry already makes it the different industrial councils, and that, precisely, the invested investment, which was the strategic one, which was the one that we had to guarantee a productive leap of four years, invest in the production jump, invest in the energy transition, in the continuing training, in the training of workers is, precisely, all that has not been done or that has been done at a level of compliments per 30_percent, 10_percent, including 0_percent in some cases. And we think that's the problem. I asked you another question: do you think Icaen has brought anything to the energy transition in this country? Because I am clear that it is obvious that no, and that it has to be reformulated, and that it has not brought anything, nor that the companies gain in energy efficiency, a key element taking into account, moreover, that we are countries with the most expensive energy prices and that this shows the competitiveness of all the companies in this country, and I think that in this Icaen has brought nothing else. And the compliments of the pact clearly show that there is an underutilization of energy policy in this country, which, if it is not a problem now, will be a problem five years from now. And I think we should be a little more honest about that. And for another band I have to ask you the first question, which I think is obvious, which is what you value for research, development and innovation policies in this country, and what you value for execution during these two years of the National Pact for Industry, taking into account that today we are still losing product in our home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.229.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the final reply the counselor now has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.230.0	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, so I answer it without any problem: the number of EROs increases. I say again: we are in the 21st century, interconnected economy, all the evils, absolutely all the evils that pass to the industry are not of this advice, you know? This councillor, I explained to him before what series of measures he is adopting: when we talk about internationalization, the National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge, now we talk about research... I have all the themes. Even so, look, about energy transition, so, yeah, what did this counseling do? Did you repeal the decree limiting the promotion of renewables? Yeah, we've... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Listen, it could have been done before; it's done now, we just did it. I'm sorry, it's a green cracker; maybe he doesn't like it, but it's a green cracker in our department. And now, for the first time, there have been measures of decarbonisation of industry for the first time, of territorial aid, with more than 50_million euros. Don't say Icaen isn't doing it, because maybe... I'm just saying, huh? Now we've touched so many fears that we don't have all the time in the world, but if I want to detail all the measures the Icaen is doing. We've said the energy transition law, the forethought it has you at the beginning of the year, and a whole series of measures that we could... so don't be simplistic, let's go to the detail and, please, be strict. As I said the name of EROs grows, I say it's true, why – how many times do I have to repeat it? – we live a few moments of critical transformation. And we think we're activating all of them. It's just... because I have a data that doesn't come out, and I feel it, too, we have to say, it's the jobs we've managed to save from the Directorate General of Industry, huh? Because the EROs are there. But why don't we look at it? Since 2012, we have 44,000 jobs that were threatened through the monitoring that we have made to 526 businesses. That's working so there's no Eros: 44,216 work places. We also talk when there is a transfer of productive activity, such as Delphi to Sant Cugat, Ercros to Flix, Bic Graphic to Granada del Penedès, etcetera. Also the protocol we establish with the fair market has allowed us, also, the bidding of 316 plants and the maintenance of eleven_ thousand places of work. This is working because there are no people at home, with cases like La Seda, Cacaolat, Tecsa or Cubigel and so many others. And that's what we're doing every day, I repeat, from the department: proactive actions and reactive actions. And we're clear, huh? , defend the workers to offer this stable occupation. He's touched on a lot of themes and the time we have is very limited. The center of Martorell: look, the center of Martorell is attached to the Service of Occupation of Catalonia, you know, and I am clear and clear that this is a center that needs to work. There was, therefore, a bid that was, therefore, deserted. What's the department doing now? Working with Councillor Chakir El Homrani to try to find another solution to this bid. But, I repeat again, don't lean from this department. Of course we want this to be resolved, of course we have put all the necessary means in place so that this happens, of course we see this emergence, so in the automotive plane one of the axes is also formation. On the subject of research, development and innovation. Obviously, I'd like to have a lot more resources, a lot more resources, a lot more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more resources, more Of course I want more resources for the search system, would I want them a lot, or do they think we don't have the vision of where they're going? Of course we'd like to have them. So let's hope that these assumptions that are alive allow us to make this better than our search system. Strategically, we have it clear, that it is important, therefore, that we make the National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge, where one of the axes is human resources and the other is financing. We are clear that this reception is what we teach everyone and expect everyone to vote. Therefore, there are industries that tank, yes; there are industries that, therefore, make workers to be welcomed, workers and workers. Since 2012, we've been trying..., there's more than 44,000, I repeat, jobs that have been saved. What we can be sure of is that all the cards we have active and proactive are activated as much as possible so that these effects are as minimal as possible. And one more thing, I repeat: the 21st century, the globalized and interconnected economy, all the evils of the world do not count on this advice, but this advice wants to help businesses to be more competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-18-4602.231.0	Thank you, Counselor. Substance the last time we had expected for this late, the session is suspended until tomorrow morning.
