ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Vagina sit on your scons... let's start the session; let's start the order of the day. [[Condol demonstration]] Before we follow, therefore, allow me, in my name, and I am convinced that in the name of the chamber, to convey our deep dismay at Lily's death, a fact, this death, to ask us all and all to continue working to be able to give response and coverage to women who are twice invisible, twice victimized, as in the case we are talking about today. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple have it enclosed in the file. In accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item on the order of the day of this plenary session. The fact is, however, that the Board of Spokesmen that we have just celebrated has granted the withdrawal of points 4 and 17 of the order of the day, relative, for a band, to the Decree Illi 5/2019, of 5 March, urgent measures to improve access to housing, and to the procedure to choose – the second point – six members of the Board of Governors of the Democratic Memorial. Therefore, these two points are removed from the order of the day. [[Greetings to a new Member]] Before continuing, precisely with this order of the day, to give the welcome also to the deputy Marc Parés, who joins again in the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, and who, as I said, joins again in his parliamentary tasks. Welcome, Congressman. Okay with... [[Greetings.]] You can clap – you can clap. Keep going. In accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, I recall that the deputy Adriana Delgado, for reasons of motherhood, delegates her vote to the deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and that, at the same time, the deputy Albert Batet, also for reasons of fatherhood, has delegated his vote for this plenary session to the deputy Eduard Pujol, deputy spokesman of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Thus, the record also by Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva deputies appointed Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise their parliamentary rights. [[Ask the Government about foreign investment]] [[310-00150/12]] So we follow the order of the day. Let's start with the first point, which is the control session, and, in concrete terms, ask the government. The first question to answer is about foreign investment, formulated for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The question is asked by Mr Santi Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.2.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. As this question was addressed to the Counsellor of Enterprise and Occupation, also responsible for the university area, she wanted to start the intervention strongly condemning the attacks and attacks suffered by a group of young people at the Autonomous University of Barcelona. And, therefore, to give the councillor the opportunity to join this sentence, given that the government's support in these sentences is often lacking. The question we ask you today is how the Councillor appreciates the evolution of foreign investment in Catalonia in the past few years.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, has the word Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, Conseller of Enterprise and Coneixement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.4.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, I always condemn, condemn and condemn any kind of aggression. Miri, as much as you have sometimes been insisting on the negative account of the evolution of the Catalan productive economy, this report does not fit the reality. Then, at the reply, I explain why.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.5.0	Excuse me, MPs, MPs; now they're telling me you don't see time and so... [[Widow's remorse.]] Now? [[Pause.]] All right, so we're done. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.6.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the dice are who they are. According to the Idescat, foreign investments in Catalonia in 2017 dropped 59.1_per_cent, while in Spain they grew 4.5_per_cent; in 2018, when you said that there were records of reversal, they fell again, 11.7_per_cent, while in Spain they advanced by 71.2_per_cent. That's right, the data from his department, the data from Action, they tell us that 2017 year did not lower the foreign investments, but they went up by a 163_per_cent, which is strange to us, but it doesn't surprise us as long as we see the relationship of investments that they account for from the department for 2017. And, concretely, the most important investment that generates more jobs than you account for is that of Hard Rock Hotels in Tarragona. Frankly, I have plenty of days trying to look for these hotels and we haven't found them yet, because the works have not even begun. Therefore, I think it would be worthwhile for you to analyse the data as they are. We are concerned about the evolution of the industrial sector, we are concerned about all these sectors. We have early 2019 data, and the industrial investment rate falls by 9.7, and it's the second drop rate of industrial investment..., lower than the last 20 years. It's the first months of the year, it can change and it can captivate, but the data worry us. We are concerned, too, with the announcements of employment regulation dispatches, and we are concerned about how there have been companies, such as Gallina Blanca, Cymi, Gavà, or La Antigua Lavandera, or Essilor, which are announcing relocations to the rest of Spain. We are therefore concerned about how it evolves. Counselor, rectify...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.7.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.8.0	...or keep thinking that putting up with the economy is the best thing that can happen to the...? [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.9.0	To answer, again, the word has the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.10.0	Thank you very much, President. MP, obviously, the dice are who they are. Look, we always say we value foreign investments in longer periods; investments are volatile. From 2009 to 2013, there were 3,100_millions of foreign investment; from 2013 to 2018, 4,600. Catalonia leads – as much as it concerns it – industry and occupation, leads with a 30_per_cent the foreign industrial investment, to the whole of the Spanish State – a 30_per_cent. We are leading, therefore, what is the generation of employment in industry. You also think that the data you refer to, the ministry data, many times include stock exchange operations and do not include investments that are made in Catalan territories. Also mention the 8,600 foreign companies installed in Catalonia. Yesterday we had an announcement; today we had an announcement that this North American multinational, VMware will create 250 job openings here. He has chosen Catalonia, in his new centre of excellence; a news that configures us to position ourselves in attraction of key investments in this new knowledge industry. So, so, much as the weight, your report doesn't fit the reality. In addition, we have in Catalonia the 34_per_cent of foreign companies in the Spanish State. Consider us as... Last year we were the second market to create jobs in foreign occupations. We have productive investments and we also have technological investments. Miri, being a foreign investment attraction, like this one we announced today, means that we are positioned in this new era of industry 4.0, this knowledge industry; otherwise, we would not be able to get this kind of investment. Miri, for every euro invested in Action, there is a return of thirty-four. You can continue in your catastrophic report, we will continue to pay attention to reality. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.11.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the health waiting lists]] [[310-00159/12]] The next question is about the lists of health care waiters; a question posed for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. On his behalf, Mrs Marta Ribas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.12.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, three dice. According to the latest CEO, the sanitation gain positions between which the citizenry considers the main problems of Catalonia ; it remains only for the past, the dissatisfaction with politics and relations Catalonia-Spain. Another one. The OCU survey, this whole state, shows that set_de_de_de_de ciutanes consider that the main problem of the health system are long waiting lists for specialists, diagnostic tests and interventions. And a third block of data. Every day we go to the worst, the lists are disappearing again in Catalonia: 23 and a half percent more people waiting for diagnostic proof, a 10_per_cent increase the people waiting for an intervention, but we are still not guaranteed to visit primary care in forty-eight hours. And the emergencies to the hospitals, now that there is no flu, are saturated: today, in Vall d'Hebron, eighty-two people are waiting for bed, some more than four days ago; yesterday, in the Hospital of the Sea, forty-eight people carrying more than twenty-four hours to emergencies. There is no way that the issue will be attacked structurally and that it is not possible to approach it with plans of shoc, which are bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. And today's bread is basically mostly for the privates to whom diagnostic tests or interventions are derived to temporarily reduce these waiting lists. Our feeling, in fact, is that in the end, it's all about giving more of the pastry to the private. Because if the great losers of the lists of hope, or despair, in fact, are the citizenry and the prestige of the own health system, the great beneficiaries are the ones who negotiate with salvation. In fact, the latest report of the Federation of Associations for the Defense of Public Health in Spain re-places Catalonia as the autonomous community – the second – with a higher degree of privatization in the health system. We're constantly talking to former Councilman Boi Ruiz, but we're wearing two legislatures with Esquerra carrying this department and neither with Comin nor with you has it gone better than worse. Any willingness, counsel, to attack these two difficult structural problems, waiting lists and privatization of sanitation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.14.0	Thank you, President. Yes, honourable Member, all the will; yes, honourable Member, for us, as the CEO shows, is the great concern we have and that is why we are in the government, and yes, we are working on a package of measures to improve accessibility to our health system.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.15.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.16.0	We have great doubts, he will advise, that this package of measures structurally attacks the issue; we have great doubts that really wander to deprivatization in this legislature. Mirin, at least Councillor Boi Ruiz didn't mind; soon after being a Councillor, he made it clear: he recommended to the citizenry that it is a private mutual. D'Esquerra didn't expect another focus, but they followed exactly the same. If we tell Councilman Boi Ruiz that it was the sheep-watching wolf, we'll start you batting like the sheep-watching wolf...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.17.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.18.0	...but I'm in trouble. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.19.0	To answer the word again you have the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.20.0	Thank you, President. You said: "structurally, "attack structurally. The waiting lists are in the end the waiting times, it is the right of the person to be treated in a reasonable time. We talk about accessibility, we talk about territorial equity. This is why we show the data by centre and the data by territory; for this reason we attack structurally, by means of means of accessibility commissions, Members and Members, which is the time to wait for diagnostic tests, external consultations and surgical interventions in each of the health sectors of this country, and for this reason it has allowed us to reduce the time to wait for surgical interventions by 14_percent, 19.3_percent for external consultation and 6_percent for diagnostic tests. This structurality, that we work it to territories, center to center and joining all the centers to see [[For technical reasons, some words of the Council's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...the problem they have with each of them, that's what we're doing. And not all interventions can be done at the territorial level; we also have at the country level, as is the case of people who are on the waiting list for a sex reassignment. In this case we have doubled the assumption, triple the centers that will make a reassignment of sex –- Clinic, Bellvitge and Can Ruti – and more we pass from thirty to seventy interventions. So, we're working very hard, because it's a concern of this government. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the International Adoption Rules]] [[310-00153/12]] The next question is about the International Adoption Rules, formulated, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, for the deputy Mr Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.22.0	Thank you, President. Councillor El Homrani, I would like to begin this question recalling that since 1995 Catalonia has been recognised as the central authority on the part of the Hague Convention relating to the protection of children and cooperation in the field of international adoption, a competence recognized by the present Statute of Autonomy as exclusive to the Government of Catalonia ; competences that this Parliament has specifically regulated in Law 25/2010, of the second book of the Civil Code of Catalonia. In this competition, the Catalan Institute of Reception and Adoption has managed in a model way more than thirteen thousand international adoptions during the last twenty years, about 30_percent of the achievements at the joint meeting of the Spanish State; a management of proximity in the processing, both on the part of the ICAA and on the part of the collaborating entities in international adoption, which is key for the adoptive families and for the same children. By his own experience – and I can also speak for Josep Maria Jové –, as Joana's adoptive father, of a beautiful cup hidden in the Xina, I can assure her, counselor, that the management of the ICAA is referent and model throughout the State. It is a process that only lasts several years until adoption is not concrete and requires several years also of postadopted follow-ups; follow-ups that are key in the protection of infants. In all this process, which in our particular case, in my particular case has lasted more than two years, proximity, rigour, direct contact and compromise in each case, in each family, on the part of the professionals of the collaborating entities are absolutely fundamental. Counselor, as was stated last week, Catalonia cannot allow a re-centralisation in this area, as claimed by the PSOE Government, of competitions that are being managed in an exemplary way since decades ago. It cannot be allowed politically, it cannot be allowed for the legal defense of our competitions, but above all it cannot be allowed because the level of excellence in the protection of our country's childhood is and must continue to be a referent of democratic quality of our country. And, later on, it cannot be allowed because, if changes are to be made, it has to be to reduce complexity, to innovate in procedures, to improve the formation of adoptive families and to improve above all the protection of ticks and ticks. And not only does this not include the new regulation proposed for the State, but it takes steps back; a regulation that centralizes, which extends phonenal decisions from families. Counselor, let us hope that its management will enable Catalan families and the country to continue enjoying a service as we now have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the advisor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.24.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, congressmen, congressmen... as he has well explained, we are in front of an action that what he does is a competitive invasion, that what he does is merely centralize. And that's what the Socialist Party government does, missing a bilateral agreement between the Catalonia-State Bilateral Commission of 2015 – it skips it directly –; it does it with a recent intention and a willingness to launch a competition that was already in the 79–seniors autonomy state – of 79–; it does it by taking 'capacity and decision making and placing us solely as managers, and, what is worse, they are aware that what they do is complicate life in the city and citizens that they are in adoption processes, complicating life, because they do it from a perspective in which it is possible to have an adoption with a place that is not accredited in the territory, which supposes, in a very long process, very complex, where familial in many cases they are close to being settled. And for these reasons we have already initiated the entire challenge of the International Rules of Adoption for competitive invasion and we will bring it to an end. For three reasons: because we are close to defending the competitions, because we are close to defending the citizens and defending a policy of proximity and because we are close, above all, to making adoptions continue to be a good tool and continue to manage well. The ICAA has made 25_percent of adoptions since it created the Spanish State; in 2017, the last year closed, it came to make almost 30_percent of the adoption processes that took place in the Spanish State. It's a good tool, we've managed this skill very well and we want to continue to manage it. Because we won't let them enter the competition, but above all we won't let the citizens and citizens who are in a complex process pass the proximity and pass the good management of what we've been doing these years. And that's why we're going to challenge you and keep working to ensure that you keep this competition. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.25.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about euthanasia]] [[310-00154/12]] The next question is about euthanasia, and asks the question, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians Republicà, Mrs Noemi Llauradó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.26.0	Thank you very much. Good morning, Counselor. In the last few days, they learn from the news that the Angel, the seventy-year-old man who has been accused of helping his wife, Mary Joseph, die, with multiple sclerosis since she was thirty years old, has reopened the debate on the right to dignified death. In fact, in recent times there have been numerous public debates, both in our country and in others, on how to treat terminally ill people or with irreversible degenerative processes that demand death in order to avoid suffering or not to live the most degrading phase of the disease. People who suffer extreme hardships, or their relatives, have asked the courts to be able to pose a life they considered to be unworthy. These cases have made clear the differences between the willingness of the sick and the legal and health provisions and have made it clear that the human problems that arise in certain situations are particularly difficult to deal with. In today's society, the burden of an unbearable suffering is often greater than the burden of death, and the idea has come to light that in certain circumstances it is legitimate to lay down the possibility of putting life to life by decision. Thus, a growing name of you has expressed in later years the desirability of addressing the legal regulation of euthanasia. In fact, our party, the Republican Left of Catalonia, which forms part of the Republican Parliamentary Group, was the first party to call for decriminalization of euthanasia, and twenty-five years ago already presented a proposal not of law to the Congress, because Esquerra has always been a pioneer in defending the expansion of the sphere of rights, as the right to dignified death. Until now, however, the Spanish State has always closed the doors to this right and criminalizes euthanasia by considering it a criminal offence in the Criminal Code. The most recent case of these constant blows of door was the May of the past year, when you yourself, at that time as a deputy, and the deputies Escarp and Ribas went to defend before Congress the proposal of the law of this Parliament to decriminalize euthanasia and help suicide, approved on July 25, 17, all votes against the PP and forbearance of Citizens. The procedure was, however, paralyzed, waiting for the socialist bill to be processed, which is sometimes blocked at the Bureau by PP and Ciutadans, which have excessively extended the deadlines for reviews. Meanwhile, in this Parliament, parliamentary groups are also working with Dret's association to Die Dignity. All in all, Counselor, what is his understanding of euthanasia and assisted suicide? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word has the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.28.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, in Catalonia we have always been pioneers. Since 2002 that we have the Register of Early Volunteers, 93,000 people in our country have registered this document, there are manifesting what interventions and treatments they want in case a disease prevents them from expressing their will. This document is accessible for professionals to the shared clinical history of patients. The Observers of Death, created at the instigations of this Parliament, will allow us to know much better how we die in Catalonia Because we always talk about people's autonomy, because we always talk about caring for the person who agrees with their will. Why does this will fall apart when we talk about the will to end our own life? We live with the taboo of death, we know, we have debated it in this Parliament, but we also live with the suffering, as you said. And that was the person's willingness to make free and consistent decisions with his own convictions. Dying is inevitable, dying hardly should not be. Of course, 80 % of Catalan society is in agreement with regular euthanasia and suicide aid. It is our responsibility to respond to this demand. We're talking about rights, and they don't have to have any more tops than the free will to exercise them. A new right doesn't force, and respects everyone's will. Criminalization, in change, prevents will, because it prevents the exercise from being free of a personal right. Criminalizing euthanasia is preventing a worthy death, and it's already fine. How many more people have to record a video to prove their will to die? We are always dealing with the same: the Penal Code, the Penal Code that the Spanish State refuses to change, and hinders laws, hinders a majority social demand of the Catalan society, hinders an individual's will and frees a person from having his or her own life. Catalonia has never expected us to do our job, we've always been the spearhead. So let's go back to it this time. That is why I am determined, honourable Member, to push from the Health Department a law of euthanasia and assisted suicide, because we are close and we assume responsibility. We will do as we have always done: together with the parliamentary groups of this chamber. Government and Parliament always have to go hand in hand to guarantee rights. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about tourism]] [[310-00155/12]] The next question is about tourism, and asks the question, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mrs María Luz Guilarte.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.30.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Chacón, what is your department doing to encourage tourism, both national and international, in Catalonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.31.0	To answer the question has the word Conseller Maria Àngels Chacón, Consellera d'Empresa i Coneixement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.32.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Member. We could be here all morning explaining the set of actions, but I'm intrigued to see how your question derives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.33.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.34.0	Well, counselor, you in your line... I think you've lost all contact with reality, because tourism in Catalonia. According to Idescat, in annual figures, in Catalonia has decreased by 6.2_per_cent national tourism, 8_per_cent overnight stays, and the average stay fell by 2_per_cent. But the most worrying thing is that in the fourth quarter of 2018 the fall has been of 15_per_cent; that of the overnight stays, of 24_per_cent, and that of the average stay, of 10,5_per_cent. And, in view of this, its achievements; for example, that the new decree of regulation of tourism of Catalonia is still in the phase of paperwork, with the whole sector waiting, as they go through difficulties. Another achievement: that your department is paralyzed and that it has become chaos without guidelines. And I don't tell you: it's said by your department's own senior officials, who run away from you and your merits at the front. And why? Because his disgovernment has only been devoted to the management of the fiction of the process. And, in view of this, we ask you to address the problems of the sector, such as identifying the needs for tourist training and possible sources of fraud and job insecurity, in order to ensure the protection of the 463,000 workers and their families who depend on this sector, which is also a 13.7_per_cent of employment in Catalonia. Or, for example, that, in the meantime, the vice president of his Government says he asks "not to demonize tourism, you do not stop and meet the demands of the sector to stop the attacks of tourismophobia, the harassment by separatism and the imposition of its symbolism, which only generates rejection and damages the Barcelona and Catalonia brand". The same vice president of his government that also recognizes Barcelona as the backbone of the sector, but to which – pity – two hernias have emerged: one, that of the separatist government of Mr Torra, that ridicules us where it goes, deteriorating the image of Barcelona and Catalonia, and a populist government of Mrs Colau, that criminalizes tourism while watering with 1_million_and_middle_of_euros to the top manta. And, as a result of both, what do we have? What we have is that opportunities and the future of a strategic sector are lost, both for economic activity and for the employment of hundreds of thousands of Catalans and their families. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.36.0	Thank you, President. The report was therefore predictable. Look, it's not just last year that we beat the record at the expense, it's just that we represent 23 percent of the foreign tourists in the Spanish State. Come tourists from France, England, Germany... Miri, these first two months, we have increased the number of travellers and the number of overnight stays in Catalonia by 3.9. We know very clearly what tourism represents, the name of workers... we have always defended it, we have defended it very clearly with respect to these attacks of tourism-phobia, we have defended it and we are not concerned, but we are working. You obviously work – and your report is obviously – as an election leader. We're worried and we're in the sector. What have we done? Look, does the decree know why we haven't thrown it in yet? Because we have just agreed, let's talk about consensus, with what are rural tourism houses and other collectivities. Very much so, we'll introduce him. What have we done? Two things, the marketing plan and the strategic plan, encouraging, through indicators that we will assess: the number of tourists, the average per capita per day, the seasonality index, the territorial deconcentration index, the competitiveness index of tourism... ; therefore, we do not make an abstract plan, but we will evaluate it and make it concrete, so that we achieve a greater name and quality in tourism. It's more, I'll give you a concrete example, you say we don't do anything. Brexit worries us, that's why, in this month of May, we make a campaign of more than €1 million to the English market; a market that represents 10.9 per cent of our tourists, where we relate to more than 2,800 agencies, where we are making every fifteen days evolution of the name of flights and the overnight stay. Therefore, I have just given him an example of a concrete action which, before a few facts that are expected to affect our tourism, so we are reacting. So, so, we're not paralyzed, we're not paralyzed, we're not paralyzed, we're not paralyzed, we're not paralyzed, we're not paralyzed, we're not paralyzed, we're not paralyzed, we're not paralyzed, we're not paralyzed, we're not paralyzed, we're not paralyzed, we're Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Subsidizing Activity of the Department of the Presidency]] [[310-00156/12]] The next question is about the subsidizing activity of the Presidency Department. The question is put, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, by Mrs Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.38.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. First, condemn the fascist attack that the young people of S'ha Finat received yesterday! , at the Autonomous University of Barcelona. Consellera, the Generalitat de Catalunya has given more than 10_million_de_euros to Valencian private entities, among other things, for the purchase and remodeling of a historic building, in the center of Valencia, on behalf of a private entity, which is Acció Cultural del País Valencià. Can you explain to us why the Generalitat de Catalunya, with the money of all Catalans, has to pay the mortgage of a building that is in Valencia and, in addition, belongs to a private entity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.39.0	To answer, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.40.0	Well, good morning. Member of Parliament, I also condemn, therefore, any attack on this country, which is its origin and destination. And tell him, therefore, that the grantor activity on behalf of the Department of the Presidency, is king for the General Law of Subsidies and for the rest of the applicable legislation and does not obey this case that you mentioned to me other objective than to promote Catalan language and culture throughout the Catalan speaking territory.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.42.0	Well, I know, Madam Councillor, that I am a philosopher and I assure you that I do not think of how to promote Catalan by paying for the building of a private entity. But, now, you will explain it to all Catalans, how Catalan is promoted by giving money to an entity to buy a building, which, by the way, the chanchullos they have to have with the mortgage are already investigating them by the prosecution, thanks to the work of Citizens, which I already tell you that, here, there are things that smell quite bad. And, look, it's not only the money that goes to that building, to that mortgage, it's also the subsidies that they give to these Valencian private entities and to other and even French whales. Because, look, his only obsession, the only obsession of his government is to spread separatist ideas and, for that, they subsidize private entities and also related media, which, for that, are very quick to increase games. And now, in the middle of the election campaign, they give the private media 10_million_of_euros, a 23_percent more than expected. Can you explain why? And they don't settle for subsidizing only the Catalan media, no, no, it's that they also buy with our money from whale and Valencian media. Friends, who lack nothing, even if, then, there is no money for health, education or social services. Because, while you give our money to other autonomous communities and other countries, here in Catalonia, you continue to climb waiting lists and continue to climb the barracks, and one_of_each_three dependents does not receive any kind of help. With you, all for independence, but nothing for dependence. Look, it's a real shame. You have replaced the real problems of all Catalans with subsidies to private media and by entities. With his government, subsidies have been raised to the media and waiting lists as well as subsidies to the chiringuitos and the... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.43.0	Congresswoman, time's up. To answer, you have the word, again, the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.44.0	Well, thank you very much. You see, telling him that Catalan language is a shared heritage with different territories and all protection and normalization policy is the competence of governments. In fact, without going further, the Statute of Autonomy, in Article 6.4 clearly says that the Generality must promote communication and cooperation with other communities and with other territories that share linguistic heritage with Catalonia; all the contrary of what you would obviously want. Tell him that this support more than fifteen years ago had to end several governments for the defense and promotion of català, in Catalonia, in València and Rio del Mundo, so we don't stay here. But you prefer to remain installed in your demagogue. We would like one day to defend with this vehemence the fiscal deficit that Catalonia suffers in order to be able to face these policies that you are claiming and that we claim, but we work there every day, ruling. On the basis of this, therefore, obviously, there has been this subsidy, as you said, to Cultural Action of the Valencia Country; also to the Bressola School, to the North Catalonia; to the Balearic Cultural Work; to the Sambori Foundation..., and this also says Article 7 of the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities, eh? Therefore, in this sense, we have very clear who is the objective of this Government, also for what it does to structural subsidies in the media of which you spoke, private media. No, listen, it's not that there's a subsidy to private media, we're giving these structural aids to paper media, digital media, radio broadcasters, television broadcasters to strengthen those communications companies that use Catalan and Occitan language in their journalistic content, because this is also the competence of the Government of the Generality, because we continue with our firm commitment to the promotion of Catalan in communication media. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the strategy to strengthen the role of the woman and reduce the genera's choice in the technological sector]] [[310-00151/12]] The next question is about the strategy to strengthen the role of the woman and reduce the genera's choice in the technological sector, formulated, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, for Mrs Anna Geli.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.46.0	President, members of the Government, councillor, good morning. The inic of the fourth industrial revolution or industrial Internet, characterized by the massive use of data and the digitization of installations that involve us a little more every day, combines different realities of genera. This rapid digital disruption, however, at the same time, a little perceptible, affects us and will affect us all directly and, especially, here, also, the woman. In fact, so the studies say that, from 2011 until the present, according to the conclusions of the Women in Digital Age, a study done for the European Commission, the number of women who opt for higher education has decreased, more so, there are four times more men than women with studies related to information and communication technologies. More data. According to the equality indicator of Catalonia, between the years 2005 and 2015, the male presence in the ICT sector grew, in absolute terms, into more than eleven_ thousand men, while the women only grew in half a thousand. According to a report by the Català de les Dones Institute, these occupy 70_percent of the jobs in the ICT sector in front of 30_percent of the women. Another given: the 15_percent of girls trien thematics front to a 1_percent of girls. There is a need, therefore, for visibility and more presence of women's women and referents in the educational world, for what it does to ICT. It is also necessary that sustainable work tools or solutions are easy to fit into masculine work environments. According to the study of Women in Digital Age, previously mentioned, the inequality of genera in the digital sphere is, basically, the result of the persistence of strong unconscious biaxes on which it is appropriate and which is not adequate and which skills have each genera. That's why, counselor, we want to know what the government's strategy is to strengthen the role of the woman and reduce the gender gap in the technology sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.47.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, has the word Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.48.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, congressmen, you've made a very good diagnosis of the moment we're living. Miri, the industrial revolution, huh? , it was nurtured, above all, and thanks to electricity, oil, coal was promoted. The first thing in this digital revolution we're living on is talent, huh? If Catalonia wants to lead this digital revolution, it has to count on 51 per cent of its society, with 51 per cent of its female talent. We can't do this digital revolution without the ladies. And, in this sense, I must say that we are still far from the figures that are desirable in order to move forward in this area. It is true, at European level, for example, at 30_percent of the technological sector there are women working there; in Catalonia it is inferior, we are in 20-25_percent, so we have work to do in order to pose at European level. But I think we should be able to get to 40 and 50 percent in our own years, if we do not want, precisely, to increase the genera. In this sense, what are we doing with the government? First place, set an example, huh? , and this advice – and let's pass a little bit –, the Digital Policy advice, so, at these times, 62_per_cent of its top ranks are women, and this is a very personal decision. Secondly, we are also working together with the Teaching Department to work in the medium and long term on everything that refers to STEM disciplines – science, technology, engineering, mathematics – collegia, schools. We need more children and more children in the future who can be prepared and are competent in this digital environment. Third place, we bid. Now a few months ago, all the informational maintenance of the Generality, contracts of 900_million euros that have introduced, for the first time, very important clauses, in terms of gender, that has made it have a direct impact, in this sense, on the capacity of these enterprises to be able to occupy, eh? More women in this very important sector. Therefore, we are also tractors of employment in the field of technology. And, finally, we're driving an ICT platform that precisely wants to be visible, to give prizes, to refer women in this technological sector. I want to remind the MPs and MPs that the first human history programmer was a woman, huh? Ada Lovelace, daughter, precisely, of a poet, Lord Byron. So, what we have to do, precisely, is put the woman and have female references in this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.49.0	Counselor, time is up. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the export of Catalan culture]] [[310-00152/12]] The next question is on the export of Catalan culture, formulated, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, by Mr Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.50.0	Thank you very much. Honorable counselor, welcome. Welcome to this Parliament, which should be, which should be the home of the word, the word to speak and to throw forward projects, should be the home of all the words, also of the words that censor us and do not want to tell us the public media, such as exile and political prisoners. The culture you directed calls for words, calls for dialog, asks for and claims to listen. There has been culture, art, thought, participation, knowledge and the relationship that all of this implies, which has made many important Catalan artists in Europe and the world over many years. And this path, difficult but possible, of internationalization of culture we cannot shut down or reduce. We want to be present at as many opportunities as we can, because, we insist, we project ourselves into the world, and we firmly believe it, it is one of the important vectors of our future as collectivity, as society, as project, as the country. We are aware, counsel, that before yesterday the presentation of the exhibition « Catalonia in Venice - To Lose your Head ( Idols ), which will represent Catalonia at the Venice Biennale of Art 2019. Catalan culture will be the protagonist in this international caire scene. And we believe that creativity is one of the best things we have to be present in the global world. That is why, she advises, we ask her today, if she can inform us about five immediate projects planned by the Department of Culture so that we can make visible the Catalan culture of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the words of the Culture Counsellor, Mrs. Maria Àngela Vilallonga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.52.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Members, councillors, very well found in this room, in Parliament, the house of the word, as well said the deputy Francesc Ten. Well; thanks, too, to allow'mixing that, in addition to considering culture as a factor of social cohesion, one of the basic objectives of this council, since the recent time of Councillor Laura Borràs, is to export quality culture. Among others, many others, we have now, in short, very short terms, this month and the month before, two events that allow us to make visible our creative vitality in the fields of literature and art. One of them mentioned it, it's the Venice Biennale of Art. Venice is an altarpiece because a sector as powerful as contemporary Catalan art can be underrated. We present a project in which art is central, but in which it has also transversed, since writers and actors participate. With the clear, firm and convinced aspiration of wanting to have a suitable national pavilion, I want to highlight the value of continuity, because Catalonia has been participating for the past six years in the Venice Biennale. The other important event is the Forty-Fifty International Book Fair in Buenos Aires, an example of community between institutions, which aims to weave alliances between writers, editors and illustrators of Catalonia with professionals in the publishing sector of Argentina and Llatina America, making the record of that powerful Barcelona that had so many writers of Llatina America. In this forty-five edition of the fira, Barcelona will be like a guest of honor, exaggerating its power of representation to writers from other Catalan speaking territories; yes, the Valencia Country, the Balearic Islands and Andorra. It's a big fire that has to promote literature, and above all, taking over as referring to the Frankfurt Fire of the year 2007, which represented a before and after [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , and that of Bolonya 2017, of children's and youth's literature...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.53.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.54.0	... –forgive – donate support... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.55.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about measures against male violence]] [[310-00157/12]] The next question is about the measures against male violence, presented, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, for the deputy Ms Beatriz Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.56.0	Good morning, Counselor. Good luck in your new position. In recent months, the Government has stated on several occasions that the fight against macho violence will be a priority, but so far we have not been able to know what resources will be allocated. I would like to ask you what budget the Catalan Government intends to allocate from its own resources to combat gender-based violence and what increase it represents for a care network that currently reaches only one_of_each_ten women who are estimated to be victims of sexist violence in Catalonia. I would also like to ask you about the Catalan Pact against Macho Violence, because this Parliament approved last October that it had to be a reality within six months and we have no news.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Meritxell Budó, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.58.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. First of all, therefore, I would like to say that male violence is a heavy violation of human rights. And precisely this week we haven't had a show again. My condol went, therefore, to send the missing bride's family to Vinaròs and that this week appeared dead to Ulldecona, this disbanded. And also regret Lily's death, which is also the fruit of this male violence outside the pair, which, sometimes, therefore, is more silent than the one that is experienced in the realm of the pair. The resources destined enguany, this 2019..., will be 32_million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.59.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.60.0	Thank you for your answer. But I would like, if I could say so, to know what specific resources this investment will translate into. Because a month ago I received from the Institut Català de les Dones a report of the projects that will be financed with the 12,8_million_of_euros that the Government of the State transferred last October to Catalonia for the deployment of the measures of the State Pact against Gender Violence, and it is noted that the few announcements that the Catalan Government has so far made regarding new services or actions will be financed with these funds; for example, the two new specialized intervention services, SIEs, which have been announced a couple of times in this Parliament, or the Protocol against Sexual Violence in Leisure Environments, which was presented by Constellera Artadi and Consteller Buch. I would like to recall that the aim of the State Pact against Gender Violence is to add resources to the fight against macho violence and not to replace the actions of the Government of Catalonia, which also has much of the competence to fight this scourge. We do not draw anything from saying that combating gender-based violence is a priority if we do not translate good intentions into resources. Making the Catalan Pact against Macho Violence a reality also means creating a great political and social consensus. As a pact, the parliamentary groups in this chamber should have been called upon to participate and move forward. However, we are in April and we know nothing. We want to know when we will sit at a table to carry out this pact, if there is a timetable and, more importantly, what specific resources the Government of Catalonia will allocate from its own resources, not from the state pact, to combat gender-based violence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.61.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.62.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, explain that the 12,7_millions that have come through the State Pact against Gender Violence, therefore, will translate into different actions. They are resources for housing; remember, therefore, that resources will be increased at the Bureau of Social Emergencies, and, therefore, in this sense they will be allocated a part of the resources. That is to say, there is a ban here on being able to buy habitat, and therefore, this is also a complaint that we should look to resolve, many municipalities, because we find ourselves with the fact that, if we cannot afford to buy habitat, we can hardly afford this habitat of emergence in cases of having to gather victims of male violence in the first instance. This is a claim we've been doing since here, since the government. Also, as you said, we are working on the growth of all services in the attention network and full recovery of victims of male violence. The creation of these points of territorial reference and integral attention in the field of health, the formation of professionals, awareness campaigns, diagnostic studies, designs and the approach of male violence, or you serve us, as is the special service in male violence for young people and adolescents; also the Observatory of Male Violence, which provides us with data to be able to endure more effective political terms to combat this scourge of our society. In this sense, tell him that yesterday he also met the interdepartmental commission to give by the end the work of drafting the strategic plan of policies of gender equality, which will include prevention and the total eradication of male violence, 2019-2022. And, in this sense, therefore, remember that there are these 32_million euros for all these actions, which will be presented in brief; in principle, there is the will that this month of April comes to the Government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.63.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.64.0	...and later work with the rest of the groups. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.65.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the vigilance of beaches and swimming pools during the summer season of 2019]] [[310-00158/12]] Finally, the last question is about the vigilance of plagiarism and swimming pools during the summer season of 2019; question posed, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, for the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.66.0	Good morning, Counselor of the Presidency. A preview of my question, to talk to him about the Oblate Catalonia, the Pirinaeus, and to make him come to the deep discomfort and indignation of the Pallars and the conjunction of the Pirinaeus with the Government for not having let the music festival be celebrated in Escalarre. Once again, the Pyrenees do not deserve it; when it is dealing with the Pyrenees they are all problems and no solution: problems with canoeing, with fauna, with the festival, with the ramaderia, centralism and disconnection of the territory in pure state. [[Some applause.]] But let's go to the question. Is the government aware that we are at the gates of the summer season and that we can find ourselves with 70_percent of the beaches and pools of the territory that cannot be opened for lack of rescue? As the parliamentary groups and the same president know very well, the Association of Catalan Relief Workers, who are accompanying us here today, has warned that it will be impossible to cover in such a short time eleven_ thousand places of rescue workers, that they are the ones who are needed, in a few weeks, and that they must be registered. Applying the new Law of Sports Professions and covering an essential service like this will be impossible before the summer begins, for which a transitional solution, urgent, as we have been commenting. We are therefore aware of the problems that this may cause in order to not be able to guarantee safety, for a band, at beaches and swimming pools, but also the impact on tourist areas, as well as the impact on all the municipalities of the country that have swimming pools and that have to guarantee the necessary security and personnel. Counselor, are you aware of this problem? What steps will the government take to resolve this situation and avoid chaos before the summer season begins? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.68.0	Okay. Thank you very much, President. Congressman, tell him that we are fully aware of this problem or this discomfort that has been transferred from the Pallars. Tomorrow the President of the Generality, therefore, has summoned all the mayors of the Pallars to be able to work the dynamism of the territory and in what way the Government invests and works in the territory, also of the Pallars, because we are sensitive and we are perfectly aware of the reality of the territory, and in no case this Government has wanted to re-centralize in others, years against. In this sense, and for what it does to the problem you mentioned about rescues and pools, tell him that this government is working to ensure the safety of all users in both beaches and pools.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.69.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.70.0	Counselor, the mayors have called them tomorrow morning and they will not come, because they will take, among other things, at four o'clock in the morning, in order to be able to come, if it is not that they have changed by the hour. [[Greetings.]] Secondly, we propose two very concrete proposals: that the Government approve an urgent and exceptional moratorium on the Register of Sports Professions, that there be no registration, at least as an exceptional measure, for this year, and at the same time that it creates a system that is sufficiently swift and consensual with the sector, so that each year they form the necessary number of training courses with the helpers, with the entities, who are the ones who know the detail of what they are doing. It will advise, there is no material time, we will find alternative solutions, we will find a more efficient and flexible formatting system to solve this problem and above all to prevent that this is repeated the year you see. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.71.0	To answer, again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.72.0	Yes, thank you. We are aware that we are in an electoral period, but perhaps we should inform ourselves a little before we do or launch certain messages. [[Greetings.]] In this sense, tell him that tomorrow the mayors will come to dinner and have dinner with the president. Tell me the best of times. [[Greetings.]] For what it does to safety in platters and pools and for what it does to you rescue, first of all I think we all need to conjure up that we need to be strict in the formation of these professionals, because it's very important, because somehow, we pose, right? , the lives of many people at their hands. And to ensure security in beaches and pools means to have rescues with proper training and also to protect the collection of professionals. And that's what's been done from this government. In fact, Catalonia has a large number of titles with the right training to practice as a rescuer. But it is true that they are registered in the Official Register of Professionals of Catalonia's Sport; this regulates the law. And in this sense, not all registered professionals are still there. And this may be the real problem of why, therefore, we cannot have these professional ones or the number of professionals for the long term this security activity in our beaches and pools this summer. In this sense, therefore, since the year 2015 has gone to give moratoria to the sector to give time to the rescue to regularize the situation, and we believe that at this time that we are of the year also to lay a new moratoria for this exercise, so that we can work from now until the next season in which way we can improve and finally solve this problem. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.73.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the lack of government action]] [[317-00088/12]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.74.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President. In the last few hours and days we have listened to you by mouth, Vice President Aragones and other spokespersons of his Government or of the parties that give you the support that his Government governs, and we say that you are limited to administering an autonomy in full decay intervened for the State, but do not govern: no political initiative and strategy to exercise self-determination; no exercise of the sovereignty of the Catalan institutions before the impositions of the Spanish State; no law effectively suspended, only in some cases the recovery of some of its contents, adapting them to the Constitution and the State; the task of Aigos Ter-Llobregat, no public recovery of services and strategic resources for our country, which follows the exercise of the sovereignty of the Catalan institutions before the impositions of the Spanish State, no public recovery of services and of our strategic resources, only in some cases the recovery of some of its contents, adapting them to the Constitution and the State; the pursuit of the exercise of political autonomy in the past; President, do you still say they rule?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.75.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.76.0	Yeah, good morning. Good morning, Congressman. I'm not just saying that government, but that we govern republicanly, Congressman. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.77.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.78.0	So look, President, I insist: no strategy to exercise self-determination, no initiative to prevail over the sovereignty of Parliament and the government before the State. Every time they talk to the State, they smile more at the popular victory of October 1, every time they manage autonomy, they smile more at the popular classes of this country in precariousness and the loss of social and economic rights. Now, that's right, look, three memories do have them: in caddis distribution, in short-flying symbols, and in repression, too. Because, look, from the 8th generation, and thanks to Brimo: more than five hundred identifications, more than fifty arrests and more than fifty judicial proceedings against independence, social and anti-feixist protests, and historical figures in denunciations. You have moved from independence to the neopujolism of the fish to the pit, to the new "socio-vergency, now led by Esquerra Republicana, to split the autonomic negotiation and to speculate with the territory. President, govern the pleguin and call for elections, and leave those who do and are willing to take this country to the republic and to social justice. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.79.0	To answer the paragraph again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.80.0	Yes, Mr. Deputy. I am glad that the group of commons applauds and that they are with you to push this Catalan republic forward, the same way I am. You and I are not in complete disagreement with the objective of republishing this country and moving forward with the Catalan Republic, and I will give you a few examples of our commitments that I made in the investment speech and that we are moving forward. In the first place, the Civic and Social Forum. The Civic and Social Forum, which, as is well known, is presided over, coordinated by Lluís Llach and which has a very plural component of what the popular will of this country represents, is carrying out drawings of meetings throughout the territory to begin what will be the tasks of which a debate is to be constituted, open to all citizens, crowds and masses, and this is on the way. The recovery of social laws is well under way. We have already presented a first package of measures, and we are moving forward with the compromise that we have taken with you and that we have approved. The whole social policy of this government is also on the line, which, I insist, is in the social policies where we find the motor of change republic. You may disagree as to whether it seems to you that these policies that we are deceiving are exactly theirs. But we, who spend more than 75 per cent of this country's budget on social policies, and that's why we're the color, the republican soul of this government, and we're going to push forward, as we've been doing so far, with all social policies. I..., it seems to me that what I would ask of you, like the parliamentary group, is to join this independenceist majority. Don't come back to make the mistake of winging. Come on, come on, We find among all of us the way that this country recovers another time that great consensus that made the first of October possible, because we have to recover it, because only when we were able to recover, all of us, with all the different views and all the different accents, – all of us – to agree on an objective, we were able to bring down the State, and that we have to do it again, and we need it, but you also need us. We work together for this consensus, because we are there– we are there. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.81.0	President, thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the role of Catalonia in the new political cycle that opens to the Spanish State]] [[317-00091/12]] The next question is the formula on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão, Ms.Jèssica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.82.0	Yes, good morning, President. What do you think is the role that Catalonia has to play in the new political cycle that takes place in the State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.83.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.84.0	Yes, Congresswoman, so what this government is going to defend is the majority of Catalans. We have just had the CEO's barometer, which I think perfectly marks those great country consensuses, and I hope that you too can join us there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.85.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.86.0	Yes, he hasn't made it clear to us, as always, but well, I already say, in any case, if you're talking about big consensus, we'll take his word for it. Let us hope that it is true and that it does not follow one of the many events to which we are accustomed, and that we can actually see within one month what is what you are defending in Madrid, because these elections at the end go out of democracy and go out of the country we want to be, and there are only two options: to move forward or back, to rule with Catalonia or to rule against Catalonia. And I can't argue that this is the Torra-Aragonese government, because right now Mr. Aragones was giving me the answer; now we'll see. In view of the Spanish drafts that set up a permanent 155, we continue to explain rights and freedoms, the privatizations of public services and the stigmatization of the people that are least, we have made it clear: the time has run out of "we can alone and call for great agreements, great agreements to disallow, to celebrate a referendum, to clean up the State and also to shield social rights. And from these great agreements, we believe that everyone should be invited, but there are mainly three actors: some of the socialists, the others would be the Government of the Generality and the independent parties, and we would also be ourselves. We will always be where, that is enough bridges and also working because Catalonia advances in rights and freedoms. What happens is that we never know very well where you would be, whether you go to block or not, whether you give up the unilateral path or not, because at the end we have a weak government that does not generate security before the scenes that can be given after April 28th, and they do not generate security for what we said last week, because of its lack of action on the social issue, because of its paralysis and its gangs on the national issue, and also because of its gesticulation, which at the end is the inability to reach agreements and to weave alliances. We have seen this with the housing decree: you have had to withdraw a housing decree so that you do not have enough parliamentary support, because it was an insult to the working classes of this country. But it's not just the question of the government, it's also the ones who are oblivious of Catalonia at the end. I don't know, Mr. Iceta, and indeed within the one hundred and two proposals that you had for a government program did not fit Catalonia in one. That makes me feel bad, and I don't know if that means that you'll finally fall back into the time of the 155 application for Catalonia, and we hope it won't be that way. Either way, I think it's time for big deals, and that's why we're asking some of us to come to centrality and together we're defending a referendum, defending social rights, and defending the state. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.87.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the paragraph again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.88.0	Thank you. Some data from the CEO's barometer, that we could have an interesting debate. The 78,7_per_cent wants a reference, in this country, the 75,9_per_cent is against the monarchy, and the 52_per_cent of Catalans are in favour of the independence of Catalonia. We're here. We're here. Yes to self-determination, yes to reference, yes to Catalonia's independence. We're here. And I, what you want to ask is that I stop considering the right to self-determination as a permit. The right to self-determination is not a permission to self-determination, it's a right, and the rights are to work, and they are to fight and they are to demand. The right to vote is won by voting, the right to demonstration is won by protesting, and the right to self-determination is won by self-determination– self-determination. [[Greetings.]] Because it's very nice to put on an election program"we want a reference. It's very nice, defending the right of self-determination, but how do you do it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, how do you do it? We've already done it. With the popular will and with the popular mandate we organized a referendum of self-determination of Catalonia. A reference of self-determination of Catalonia in which. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. his group is not exactly the best example of what that September 6 and 7 vote was. Exactly. What I ask of you is a compromise. Commit yourself to the right of self-determination of Catalonia, commit yourself. When you invest a new president in the Spanish State, what will you do if that president does not respect the right to self-determination in Catalonia? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no, I'm sorry, I'm talking now, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.89.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.90.0	What will you do if the President of the Spanish Government is not committed to Catalonia's right of self-determination? This is what you need to clarify to the people of Catalonia, this is what you need to clarify [[remorse of the voice]] Because the right to self-determination, I insist, it's a right, it's not a permit. Therefore, I hope that they are with us demanding the right to self-determination, which is what the 78,7_per_cent of Catalans want. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.91.0	Keep going. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the return of the education system and the measures to improve it]] [[317-00087/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr. Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.92.0	Thank you, Mr. President, and the President of the Generality will excuse me if I thank you for a few seconds to answer the spokesman of In Comú Puede. And, listen to me, you have also fallen into the mistake of thinking that one thing is Catalonia and the other the Catalans. The one hundred and two measures of the socialist programme are directed to Catalans and Catalans. And now, Mr President, I'd like to ask you what your government appreciates about the performance of the education system in Catalonia and what measures are being taken to improve it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.93.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.94.0	Yes, thank you, Congressman. So, look, it's one of the great country consensuses, the Catalan school, and the Catalan language and immersion, and for us it's a model of success, and this is the value that we make of the success of the councillors, who have known how to find in the Catalan school, in the empowerment of the master and the teachers and professionals of the education of Catalonia, the tool why this country can advance, because we have our best young people, so we can get ahead with what the councillor was talking about, the talent revolution and leading it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.95.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.96.0	Thank you, Mr. President. We can share what he said, but the objective of our question was to express concern about early school leaving, about the phenomenon that is taking place, which today the social differences mark much more than they did in the year 2003 the school income. It is true that in these years the abandonment has been reduced, we are today in a 17_per_cent, but still far from the European middle, which is 10_per_cent. On the other hand, as I said, according to the reports, for example, of Save the Children or of the Autonomous University of Barcelona, the dropout rate in the most disadvantaged social classes has increased. Today the poorest 20 is in the 43_percent of school drop-out. The Autonomous University even speaks of an – I quote – "unacceptable racialization of school results. In short, President, we believe that the problem of the Catalan school today is not the linguistic problem, it is a problem of school segregation, it is a problem of ability in children, particularly those coming from immigration or from the social sectors of the working class or from those who try to work and do not succeed. And, therefore, our questions were very concrete. Do you intend to allocate additional resources to a system that is already underfunded and very far from the 6_per_cent that marked the very same law of education in Catalonia? Do you intend to regain the generality's financial co-responsibility at the zero-three stage of education, which was already abandoned in 2012, despite the fact that there are exclusive skills? Think of deploying the inclusive school decree because the student with specific educational needs has the necessary support from all over the educational field? Do you think of betting on post-compulsory education and raising, as it is now not, the grades of nine or second opportunities? This is why we need to effectively ensure that the Catalan education model is a success model.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.97.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.98.0	Yeah. Mr. MP, before anything else – forgive me – I just taught the vice president that the director of Igualtat policies of Tarragona has died; we have just learned. I give you my condolences on behalf of the government and I think on behalf of the whole chamber. About the policies you were setting up. The annual report of the Bofill Foundation acknowledged that the educational results had not been adversely affected by the detail precisely thanks to the efforts of the faculty. And he said the following, too: « Premature educational abandonment has dropped from 31 to 19_per_cent between 2007 and 2015– I think it's a date that we must congratulate ourselves on, and it's a trend, it's a trend that points, I think, very positively–, and that the population from thirty to thirty-four years, with higher studies, has gone from 40_per_cent..., from 39,7_per_cent to 43,1_per_cent. You know perfectly well that this government has raised social policies – education, sanitation, the whole issue of guaranteed returns – as one of the absolute priorities; we dedicate more than 75_percent of the budget. And the past course, for example, precisely, one of the tests, it seems to me, with which this compromise has been the creation of more than 5,500 new teaching places, 5,500 places. It seems very uplifting. But you also allow me to tell you that we are always going to stop there, that it is the fiscal deficit, the unbearable fiscal deficit of this country, the 16.570_millions that leave every year, and that I would suppose..., only one year of non-tax deficit would allow us to double the assumptions that we dedicate to social policies; with one year we would double the assumptions that we dedicate to social policies. And that's what we need: more resources. And I hope that one day the Socialist Party will demand it with the same firmness that we are demanding from the Government of the State. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.99.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the fight against the state's harpsichords]] [[317-00090/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.100.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President. The electoral campaign and the gears of the State are already turning loud again. At the expense of repression – still alive – we have once again felt the shame of the claveguers. We saw them three years ago with the Catalonia operation and it is clear that they have not left, that governments that govern, in Madrid, are there to stay. That was the first attempt to shut us down and we found ourselves missing some support. We, on the other hand, are at his side: from here our most frontal rebacle and condemn her more firmly to a new antolological scandal, now against Podemos. Claves seek to harm political opponents, to end political dissent, and every time they do so they weaken democracy, this weak democracy, malaise, and every weaker and malaise scandal. Now, again, as always, on the eve of an electoral campaign, we have again seen how repression is used in the form of a general cause to try to give up our political proposal, to give up voting, to give up the republic. But we won't. Instruction Judgement 13_has processed thirty people, most of whom are senior government officials, from that government that made October 1 possible. Thirty people processed two days before I rent a campaign that wants to make independence another time; a campaign that is not just an election because it wants to double, it wants to make us sick and it wants to ban us. And they no longer support the interventions of the Spanish right, with the silence of Spanish socialism. Now, to start the campaign, re-present the repression. The revenge of October 1 is expensive and hard. But we always persist. We persist because the ballot box is where we are strong and where we feel really good; we also persist because it does not only affect us, repression. And today, when a year ago another inexplicable fact of repression: Adri, Tamara, we want you home and free. From the obvious ideological discrepancy, we would need to make a common front to eliminate these repulsive practices, to remove the state's keyloggers. And we'd also want the PSC and the Spanish government, which isn't there today. We would like to see 'I'm stuck in the block and blunts in the complaint against repression and not characters in the '1 of October' cause through the State Advocate. Today, President, we take the opportunity to show our solidarity with the thirty people prosecuted and now to ask them how they face the government's struggle against the state's warring. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.101.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.102.0	Thank you, President. Yes, honourable Member, you are quite right; that is to say, this persecution is confirmed by the judicial process and that we are ahead of a further escalation in repression, in this case, therefore, of thirty employees, senior officials, workers of companies external to the Generality. And it produces a paradoxical fact, which I think needs to be reflected throughout the room: many of these working and other people have worked with many governments in this country, right? And, therefore, I ask..., no to the independence sector of the chamber, I ask the whole chamber: shall we shut up before this persecution also to ex-companies with which we have been working? Someone thinks that these thirty high freighters, you'll work, workers of companies, have misled, have disobeyed, have broken what laws of secrets? You know them, you've worked with them, you know their skills, you know honesty and rigor. Shut up, too? Will we not denounce this new step in political persecution? Because, indeed, one day we were the independenceists, but now we see that We can – and all my solidarity, too –..., for the wreaking havoc of the rotten, evil and lacking the name of Mr. Pablo Iglesias, to whom all respect is given in this country, for his struggle, for his democratic struggle, it is clear that it is. But then they'll be a few more. We're in front of a state that won't stop. He didn't stop with the Independenceists, he didn't stop with the people on the left of this country, and he's going to keep moving. And we have to stop them. And we have to make this common front; of course we have to make this common front all democrats. And I ask the whole chamber not to call before this repression, not to call when the State Advocate – the State Advocate –, who rely on the PSOE, claim to impute citizens who were voting. You must deny this; in this you must protest. Because in this common front we need the Socialist Party, of course we do need the Socialist Party. Proper repression. To bring us to all the courts of the world we already have a few groups; we already have a few groups in this chamber that would present every possible quarrel to us. But the Socialist Party has to get out of here, it has to get out of repression all of a sudden, because, if not, it's so much, so much the PSOE as the PP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.103.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.104.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.105.0	Thank you. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the conduct of the Kingdom of Spain towards European demands for dialogue and mediation before the situation of repression suffered by Catalonia]] [[317-00089/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Laura Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.106.0	Thank you very much, President. President Torra, Councillor Turull, engaged in his investiture debate as a candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat de Catalunya, in the shameful court that is patenting, said that « putting on the constitutionalist suit is a chollo, because it allows you to fail the Constitution when you want to. There are slogans that are kept in force: "Spain is different. Yes, vintage, but it still serves. It serves, because, if you are said Pablo Casado, it comes out frankly to say unbalanced to the President of the Generality. But on the other hand, if you complete an election program, you go to jail, and you organize a referendum, you process it by democracy. It seems that justice goes through barrels, to the Kingdom of Spain, and while some have free bar to insult institutions, parties and people we defend the honorability of institutions, parties and people we go to court. If you exercise self-determination in Spain, you end up imputed; in change, if you exercise repression you get impunity. And that worries us; we worry about ourselves, but we also worry about Europe, President. Last week he was talking about forty-one French senators. But, also, in just one week, the Bundestag has presented a motion asking the Government of Angela Merkel to work for a negotiated solution, as have the United Kingdom, Belgium or also the Parliament of Piedmont, demanding the freedom of political prisoners and mediating for Catalonia. Even yesterday, the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe showed her concern for the rights. Europe is also concerned about us: the Kingdom of Spain continues to repress, prosecute and impute. They tell us that you don't want independence in Congress – by luck, it doesn't go what Mr. Rivera wants, it goes what the voters want –; the keyposts of the State came out. And that of the « bound and well bound rhyme with « investigated, « accused, « prosecuted, « fined, « accused, « confined, « censored and « exiled. Therefore, all together against Catalunya. We from Junts for Catalonia ask him, President, what he values as a fire of the behaviour of the Kingdom of Spain towards these European demands for dialogue and mediation for the unbearable situation of repression that Catalonia sees. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.107.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.108.0	Yes, thank you, President. Member of Parliament, in fact, this week is a year full of the decision of the Court of Slesvig-Holstein, in which she did not appreciate that there was any kind of rebellion or secession. I think that's the point of inflection. That is to say, when here, effectively, this vintage slogan of 'Spain is different is maintained unalterable, not Europe; Europe jutja, Europe jutja independently, rigorously. And Europe, with that decision, the German court, with that decision, set out the pattern of what it will end up feeling, without any doubt, the decision that the European courts – because they will have to be the European courts of Strasbourg – will end up giving this farce, this unworthy trial, this judgment of great indignation for any Democrat – to any Democrat. And if we just look at what happened this week..., I no longer refer to the Amnesty International, the Human Rights Watch, to the United Nations Organization against Torture, etc., no, we think what happened this week, it turns out that the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe says he wants to visit Madrid before the subsequent violation of the rights of the first October; it turns out that two police leaders of Scotland Yard do not see a violent assault on September 20, like the no-one - like the no-one - but, above, two of Europe's most important experts in security do not see any type of rape. Or, yesterday, the Nobel Prize winner for Pau Jody Williams denounced the risk that this case involves against the independence leaders for human rights. That's what caused only this last week. I think the Spanish State, which has been naked in Europe..., and now we see how Mr. Borrell is dedicated to visiting the countries that I had visited. He's in Slovenia, Mr. Borrell. Imagine! [[The president of the generality laughs.]] I mean, maybe we play this: I go to that country, and he goes four months later, right? Imagine how far the Spanish State has come to try – to try – to put up with the fire or fire that is supposed to lead to this authoritative drift. That's how Europe has signed up. And this is where our victory began: when Europe came to terms with what happened in Spain and where this authoritative drift was condemned. I am convinced that Europe will give us the right, it will be Europe where we will win, and our political prisoners and our exiles will be free and return home. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.109.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the protection of Catalans before the insecurity and escalation of crimes]] [[317-00086/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.110.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, insecurity and increased crime is one of the main problems of citizens. Do you believe that the Government of the Generalitat is doing everything it can and should to protect Catalans?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.111.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.112.0	You've sorted a bad day to ask this question, honourable Member, because it turns out that, according to the CEO's barometer, the Squadron Mosses are the second most valued institution in this country, pictures's, after the universities. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.113.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.114.0	I don't think you understand the questions very well, Mr. Torra. Of course, more resources are needed for the Mossos d'Esquadra to do their job well. But, look, robbery with violence in private homes has increased by 10_per_cent in 2018. Insecurity is the main problem of the citizens of Barcelona. Neighbors in many neighborhoods and municipalities in Catalonia are concerned about their safety and those of their families. And what do you do? Apologize or say they can't do more with the resources they have. But, look, you don't prioritize. Because the protection of Catalans does not interest them. What is of interest to you? Its own protection and that of the fugitives of justice. Because for that..., while you excuse why there are no more agents patrolling in many places in Catalonia, it turns out that you create your own Pretorian guard outside the Escorta Area. What's the matter, Mr. Torra, that you don't trust the area of escorts of the Mosses? Is it not the most beloved institution for Catalans, according to you? Let's see, what barbarity do you want to commit so that you have to make a self - chosen Pretorian guard by ideological affinity? When did you decide to create this new chiringuito, Mr. Torra, when Trapero left in the trial and said that the Mossos were willing to arrest Puigdemont? What do you want to do, reward independent mossos while punishing the mosso who said the Republic does not exist? Look, it's a shame that, while there are no troops to patrol in many places in Catalonia, you believe yourself to be a priestly guard of your own by ideological affinity. It is a shame that you do not protect the Catalans, but are dedicated to protecting fugitives, plugged in and accused by the process. It's a shame that you mossos don't pay overtime with a decent payment, don't give them the resources they need, but then want to make ideological purges. You go without a brake, Mr. Torra, but I recommend that you pray, that you pray a lot so that Sánchez does not continue in the government and does not allow you to do the barbarities, because when we govern [[laughs and remorse of the eyes]] The Mossos will have the resources they need and will protect the Catalans and not the fugitives, plugged in and imputed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.115.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.116.0	...which also rhymes with what Mrs. Borràs says. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.117.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.118.0	Well, as always, you start a question and end your subject. Fi. And with words that I think are not adequate: « Trapero, long. But what does « Trapero, long? But why do you use these expressions? If so... I'm the one who honestly... [[Give me the applause.]] Fi. Listen to me, we do exactly what the Spanish State, the French State and the United Kingdom did, exactly the same. And his provincial visit – his provincial visit– [[remorse of the voice]] It prevents you – it prevents you – from taking into account what we are doing. [[Greetings.]] Because we want to throw in the same as the other states like this. Miri, Mrs. Arrimadas, I told you last week precisely... [[Widow's remorse.]] If I may, President, in order to continue? [[Pause.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.119.0	Go on, go on, president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.120.0	The Spanish reaction to '1 October and to the democracy exercise of this country, from then on, has meant the most absolute failure of the last few years in democratic credibility. But if anyone still personifies this weakness, it's you, Mrs. Arrimadas, it's you. You, in a way, the fracà, let's just say, it's homeric, if you'll let me, it's spectacular, it's phenomenal. And I'd like to say the following, because you've upset a majority, you've upset a majority, which the people of Catalonia have given you, yes. You could have led – you could have led – and it wasn't possible. You have come here to break, to break the great consensus of this country, to pose all the quarrels of the world and, obviously, to pull off headlines..., pulling headlines only with criticism and with chasm. And that will turn you against it, because you will never be able to rule Catalonia, you will never rule Catalonia, because you cannot rule against the great consensus that this country has built. You can't rule anymore. And also, just a comment, in copy of quarrels, vigilante, because they will end up complaining against those who participated in the Via Catalana, and perhaps Mrs. Lorena Bernal [[remorse of the voice]] You'll end up being sued, too. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.121.0	Thank you, President. [[Widow's remorse.]] [[Tribute in memory of former Member Eduardo Martín Toval]] [[401-00012/12]] The control session is over... please, shut up. After the control session, let's move to the next point of the order of the day, which is the homenatge in memory of former MP Eduardo Martín Toval. Let's start this point of the order of the day in memory of Mr. Eduardo Martín Toval, who was a mad Member of this House during the first parliamentary term, from 1980 to 1982. This presidency wants to convey an affectionate greeting to family members, friends, and former members of this chamber who are accompanying us today for such a movement. And I ask you to accept, on behalf of this institution, our most sincere feeling of friendship and condolences, which the Catalan Parliament expresses to you. To make the deputy's gloss, the president of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta, has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.122.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Many honourable President of the Generality, members of the Government, Members of Parliament, and friends who accompany us. My first words in this speech on behalf of the Socialist Group and Unites per Avançar, in honor of the memory of our company Eduardo Martín Toval, must necessarily address the members of his family and his friends, who are accompanying us today. We complete with this intervention a memory and also a friendship. I will try, therefore, to summarise the trajectory of Edward Martín Toval so that the chamber can retain him the more he deserves to be honored. Eduardo Martín Toval was born in Málaga on March 5, 1942 and died suddenly, from a heart attack, the 15th generation of enguany, at the seventy-six years, in the municipality of Rincón de la Victoria, in Málaga, when he returned from one of the demonstrations called on that day for the feminist movement. He was a committed activist until the last moment. To convey to you who was Eduardo Martín Toval and his decisive contribution to the democratic transition, the socialist unit in Catalonia, the elaboration of the 1978 Constitution and the 1979 Statute, as well as the vitality of the socialist project in Spain in the 80s and 90s, I have taken advantage of the magnificent biographic resin prepared for Enric Senabre and edited for the Rafael Campalans Foundation with the motive of his death. Net of a member of the Radical Party, born to a family of the Malaga bourgeoisie, his family lost the character of accommodation when the father died. Little Eduardo was five years old. And no one gave him anything. In order to study, he worked for the Coca-Cola company, when it was installed in Malaga, and at the length of several summers in a hospital for the treatment of tuberculosis in Falkenstein, in Germany. He graduated as a Dret student for free at the University of Granada. He began his political activity in Christian circles and, from a very young age, he committed himself to the struggle of the workers. Up in Barcelona in 1967, in choosing destination to the provincial delegation of Treball, a copy approved the objections of technical civil administration of the State. Finally, he's in charge of the Crisis Expedients Negotiation those years. He immediately collaborates as a lawyer in the creation of the Centre d'Etudes et Avisoration Laboral, integrated by university workers. Get the PhD in Right and access by opposition to the Higher Technical Work Inspectors Cos. In the middle of the dictatorship, with trade unions in hiding and without recognition of the right of vacancy, he integrated, and to a large extent promoted, a group of democratic labour inspectors who applied in the most progressive and advanced way possible the restrictive labour standards in force at that time. At the end of 1975, those labour inspectors were subject to an administrative sanction in order to refuse to certify the character of employers' tanks with the motivation of the waves of the Baix Llobregat. He donated Dret del Traball classes to the Autonomous University of Barcelona as an aggregate professor, and promoted the publication Legal Guide for Workers, which was, at the time, an important tool for training workers, trade unionists and labor lawyers. He later went to the Workers' Committees, the STAC – Workers' Union of the Administration of Catalonia – and the UGT. The year 1969 entered the Revolutionary Organization of Workers, in which it fought until the year 1972. It forms part of the workers' group and self-management created around the magazine El topo trabalho, which worked around Workers' Commissions. From the end of 1974, he joined, with other members of this group, the Socialist Convergence of Catalonia, engine of the founding in 1976 of the Socialist Party of Catalonia - Congress, defending from this formation the process of socialist unity, which culminated in 1978 with the creation of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, PSC-PSOE. He was a member of the PSC Executive Board from 1978 to 1984. June 1977 was elected to the Congress in the Socialist candidacy of Catalonia, which won our country the general elections. He was attached to the Socialist Group in Catalonia. The year 1979 was re-elected as a member of the Congress for Barcelona, becoming the spokesman of the Socialist Group of Catalonia. The year 1980 resigned as a congressman to run in the Socialist candidacy for the Parliament of Catalonia, encapsulated by Joan Revantós, and became the spokesman of the Socialist Group in this chamber. In 1982 he resigned from the Parliament to return to the Congress, he worked as a Member until 1995, developing the task of secretaries-general of the Socialist Group at the Congress, from 1982 to 1985, and later as spokesman of the Group from 1985 to 1993. With the spokesman of the Socialist Group at the Congress he participated in the meetings of the Federal Executive Commission of the PSOE during this period. It was at that time when he became friends and political collaboration with Alfonso Guerra. The year 1995 renounces its escó and transferred its militancy to Málaga, to present itself as a socialist candidate for the mayorship of that city. During that municipal term, he exercised the portfolio of the Socialist Municipal Group against the opposition. The year 98 calls for re-entry to the Labour Inspectorate and exercises its task in Malaga. The year 2004 is appointed Labour and Social Adviser of the Embassy of Espanya al-Marroco, to be held at the end of 2010. He will retire as a work inspector in 2011. An academic, trade union career, in public office and in very intense politics, in which he highlights his commitment to the workers and to the socialist ideal. To try to convey to you the ideal that he moved to the length of his life, I read you a 1998 manuscript of his that the Rafael Campalans Foundation has edited with a motion of his death. I quote Eduardo Martín Toval: "At the threshold of the third millennium, socialism remains for me, fundamentally, a serious commitment to the way of life in solidarity. Socialism must continue to combine the defence and promotion of the weakest with the deepening of the personal and collective rights of all citizens. In economic terms, the objectives of high growth, rational increase in consumption, increase in employment and overall stability of the economy must prevail; in the face of neo-conservative paradigms – apply them by those who apply them – which favour the control of prices at the cost of employment, economic growth and their solidarity distribution. Obviously, the role of the State as a compensator of the economic and social dysfunctions of the market remains key. Social and political socialism must face the challenge of obtaining the support of the new emerging social sectors committed to progress, but without losing sight of the fact that the centre of gravity of its transformation project must continue to be built around wage earners, whether they work or not. Furthermore, in today's Spain, the objective of territorial cohesion between nationalities and regions is, in my opinion, an inseparable part of the solidarity commitment to which I referred to the principle. Finish the date. He never gave up his political commitment to the socialist project, as he did in his latest interview on 23 December 2018, to the Diari Malaga's opinion, when he said: "I am still affiliated for consistency. Surely this coherence has a lot of nostalgic coherence. And for convictions. For convictions of what was my party and my militancy in favor of the workers. Edward was essential for many political and parliamentary tasks because of his solid academic formation, his ability to work – infinite –, his mental agility, his dialectic ability and his willingness to draw agreements between different political positions. Their abilities, as I have said, were put to the test in the difficult process of the socialist unit and in the agreements that led to the approval of the Constitution and the Statute. You can give faith to those who share with him these processes and this same hemicicle, if you can return the echo to us from your voice. Eduardo Martín Toval was part of the Assembly of Parliamentarians created in 1977 and was part of the Commission of the Twenty, which by delegation of the assembly, drew up in Sau the preliminary draft of the Statute of Autonomy. He also played a very active role in the drafting of the Spanish Constitution, until, as Miquel Roca and Junyent recalled a little while ago, the triplet Roca, Solé Tura and Martín Toval called themselves "the troika, in the tasks they carried to the approval of the Constitution of 78 and the Statute of 79. He coordinated, for example, the socialist statements to the preliminary draft Constitution approved for the integrated presentation for the seven pairs of the Constitution, with the invaluable help, among others, of the lawyer José Antonio González Casanova. His return to the Congress of Deputies in 1982, and above all his departure to Malaga in 1995, made his record disappear to Catalonia. And it was unfair not to try to recover a memory that certainly can still be useful today even if we were layers of extrusion in the appropriate consequences. Eduardo Martín Toval was, as the historian Joan Esculies has justly written, a "component; of others he would have said "a plumber". In School words, "they are figures who are, but they are not always seen, they pact, they inspect, they flatten and, ultimately, they are a political fan. For Eduardo politics was the instrument to drive a permanent process of reforms that we had to progressively embrace the ideal society. As I said on the basis of a meeting of the former members of the Commission of the Twenty, convened by President Maragall the generation of 2005 – I quote – "fortunately for the progress, the advances in any field of our social and personal reality do not exhaust our ability to claim us objectives. Esculias, in an article published after the death of Eduardo Martín, conveyed to us his words in which he said – and I quote literally –: "The Statue we have to get to Madrid on the basis of a collective, unanimous force, of all the Catalan political forces. This is a theme you can't play on – end the date. If we want politics we need to reverse components and resurrect the old unitary spirits that today seem to remain in oblivion. Units win, divide lose: this is a maximum old Catalanism that we often seem to have forgotten all the folds. Neither in this sense did Eduardo Martín accompany Joan Reventós on his visits to President Adolfo Suárez and King Joan Carles to demand the return of President Tarradellas and the recovery of the institutions of the Generality annulled by Franco in the end of the Civil War. And it is not strange either that Eduardo Martín Toval took part in the forging of the consensus on the school language model, driven decisively by the socialists Marta Mata and José González Navas. Precisely the raison d'être of many of his decisions and many of his contributions to politics had to see with the closed defense of the civil unit of the Catalan people, the need to fight in a way clinging to any Lerouxist tempt. And not to say that this attitude, always defended with firmness for Eduardo Martín Toval, had an enormous value added to his vital recourse, proud of his origins and able to integrate into a personality vibrating a plural identity. As a deputy, as a spokesman, he made a sharp dialectic, but always respectful of his opponents, as well as the feeling of humour that characterized him. Like many of his peers, he developed a special respect for the institutions and the need to preserve them at the service of the city council and to avoid putting them at the service of one or another political option. Eduardo Martín Toval was an example of trade union and political compromise, a fighter for democracy and social justice, and an excellent parliamentarian who defended his ideas with conviction and effectiveness. It was part of a generation that pushed the Transition, convinced that only the broad consensus could give solid support to the institutions and the laws that support them. Let's keep his example and his memory alive, and that all folds can extrude some relevant elements to restore today's policy. I ended up carrying on behalf of all of you a strong hug to your family and friends, and concretely to Maria Victoria, Sara, Jonah, Abigail and Joshua, who are accompanying us today. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.123.0	MPs, MPs, I invite you now to keep a minute of silence in memory of former MP Martín Toval. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] We're still on the order of the day. The fourth point is the communication to the Ple of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees must be communicated to the plenary. As the current composition of the months of the commissions is included in the Ple's file that all of you have, I would like to point out that I am not happy with the reading. Yeah? [[Pause.]] [[Decree Ill 7/2019, of 2 April, granting a supplement of credit to the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2017]] [[203-00015/12]] In addition, Article 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure provides that we shall proceed directly to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 7/2019 of 2 April, granting a supplement of credit to the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2017. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-President of the Government and the Councillor of Economy and History will first intervene to explain the reasons for which this Decree has been promulgated. It has the word, therefore, the Vice President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.124.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Deputies, let me begin, unfortunately, by turning myself into two cases of male violence in the last weeks, which have involved the murder of a young girl, so, disappeared to Vinaròs and found in Ulldecona, and also the murder of a woman in Barcelona, also a victim of male violence – in this case, it still indicates male violence outside the pair – in the walls of the Raval. There will never be enough work that public institutions can do to prevent male violence, while we must mourn the murder of women in the hands of their peers or in the hands of other men. Therefore, again show the government's commitment in the fight against male violence and all masculinism. Entering already into the matter of the decree that we are bringing to validation today, let me first take a look at the evolution of the Catalan economy and its environment, which will certainly help us focus our debate today on the front door of the plenary of this Parliament, which is to expose the reasons for approval by the Government of the Decree to grant a supplement of credence to the assumptions of the Generality of Catalonia for 2017. It is true that the latest economic figures of the past months, the economic growth both during the year 2018 and the prospects for this 2019 – and we had, therefore, news this week with the forecasts of the International Monetary Fund – suffer a certain deceleration. Our economy is an open economy and, therefore, benefits from the economic acceleration processes of our environment, and obviously also in response to the consequences of a certain slowdown. It was revised downwards in the expectations of the international economy, in particular the euro area, caused by the weakening of world trade, because of the favourable financial conditions, which caused a reaction from the central banks, because of the uncertainty arising from factors such as Brexit, because of the evolution of the trade war-discussion between the United States and Xina, of which we also had news yesterday... Even though Catalonia will not be one of the most affected countries, obviously, so we must also be alerted to prevent possible consequences, especially in areas such as trade or tourism, which are very sensitive to external demand. We are in a less favourable international context, which causes external demand and the industrial sector, which is the most open sector abroad, to experience a certain degree of growth. The industrial sector, in concrete terms, suffered a small contraction in the second quarter of last year in its gross value added, equivalent to 1.5_per_cent in annual terms. Despite everything, we have a strong economy, we come from a few years of vigorous economic growth. In 2016, the Catalan economy grew by 3,4_per_cent; in 2017, by 3,3_per_cent; in 2018, by 2,6_per_cent, a tenth more than at the conjunction of the State. They are very high growth taxes, which in many cases double the middle of the euro area and which partly explain why the recession from 2008 to 2013 in Catalonia was stronger and, therefore, the recovery has been more accelerated to cover the gap left, therefore, empty, in the event of the economic crisis. We are aware that growth – and here comes under the assumption – this growth has not been translated, so much because we do not have all the fiscal resources that are generated in Catalonia, nor do we have the redistributive capacity that we would like because of our lack of political sovereignty, these strong growths have not moved equitably to the whole population, and yet inequality and poverty are keeping to unacceptable levels that we are determined to reduce. As I said, these years of growth of the Catalan economy, of this important growth, have also entailed, therefore – not in the size we would want in quantitative terms, but it has occurred – an increase in the entrances also of the Administration of the Generality. In the next few years, this increase in the number of entries that we have had in previous years will not grow at the same rate, and, therefore, we must bear in mind at the time of taking the decisions, in today's day, that involve commitments of future expenditure. It is known that in order to be able to make the citizens available the increase of entrances we make it through public expenditure, and this expenditure the Government can agree with the assumption that we have approved at this time. Parliaments are the ones who authorize governments in the name of citizens, who are contributors, parliaments are the ones who authorize governments, therefore, to make a certain level of expenditure. The latest assumptions of the Government of Catalonia were approved two years ago, the year 2017. The application of Article 155 and the fact that today, therefore, political fragmentation, also in this chamber..., the effects of political repression on the suspension of the rights of some Members do not have the opportunity to approve new accounts that allow us to update the priorities of expenditure, according to the available entries that we have today. And this was not possible either in Catalonia or in Spain or in our country's important institutions, such as the Barcelona Assembly. Political polarization, fragmentation, make those stable, broad, solid majorities that continue in time, follow the past and force us to be generous and to negotiate, and this government is determined to do so. The support that we have at this time as the government of Catalonia, with all these conditions that it gave – the effects of repression, with suspension on the deputies, among them – today are not enough to approve the Generality's assumptions yet. As certain as that is, there is no alternative majority of government. The will of this government, therefore, is to continue looking for the majorities necessary to be able to dispose of some assumptions. We never rise from the table, neither here nor there, and surely if no one has risen from the table neither here nor there probably the situation would be very different. But the situation is what it is, we can't change the past, and in any case our responsibility is to do everything in our hands to improve the lives of our fellow citizens, by limiting the margins of action. The difficulties of the present do not make us resign from our responsibilities. We did not give up our responsibilities, which are our obligations as the government. We do not resign from our functions, and that is why we continue with our support to parliamentary groups to talk about the assumptions of the Generality, which is ultimately to talk about the resources that we dedicate to teaching, to health, to social matters, to safety and to emergencies, to fighting against male violence, to the Administration of Justice and to so many other powers exercised by the Generality of Catalonia. Therefore, once we hold hands with the different groups of the chamber to be able to talk about assumptions, we also take the initiative and push those measures, with which I am presenting today, which allow us, while we do not have assumptions for the year 2019, to better manage the assumption during an extension period. One of the measures that we have before us is precisely what we are considering today: a decree approved by the Government last week, which authorizes the Government of the Government of Catalonia to meet our spending commitments, basically related to the increases in the salaries of public workers – they are not capricious increases, they are not arbitrary increases, they are therefore to match the salaries of public workers to the evolution of the cost of living in Catalonia – taking into account in particular the wage freeze and wage reduction that occurred during the time of the economic crisis. There has also been an increase in the number of staff, in the number of teachers, in the number of technicians in the field of education, in the number of teachers and in the number of teachers, in the number of health professionals, in the number of staff in the field of health care, in the main, but also in other areas of the Government. But also to face up to the commitments that this Parliament has asked the Government to make repeatedly, as it is to properly schedule the return of extraordinary payments from 2013 and 2014, which are still pending to return to the workers of the Generalitat de Catalunya. As I said, during these two years, since the approval of the budget for the year 2017, several factors have coincided that make the costs of providing public services, in the same service as 2017, have increased. For one band, the reference population, the recipients of some services, such as, for example, the school population, has grown; or it has increased complexity, for example, in the field of health, such as the population's aging; or it has also increased the complexity of the folds in the field of safety and emergencies. For another band, the cost of producing these public policies, in some cases, therefore, basically medical treatments, introduction of new medical technology, of us medicines, that we do not decide, that decides the State and that we pay through the assumptions of the Generality. And, on the other hand, they have also deployed, since the year 2017, from the approval of the assumptions, laws that create rights of citizenship, such as, for example, guaranteed income of citizenship and, on the other hand, they have also increased the price of good part of the sub-administrations and maintenances. As I said, one of the components of the expenditure that has experienced a greater growth has been that of Chapter 1, personnel expenditure. For a band, the effect of the increase in staff to attend to a population that would benefit from growth, such as those before, above all, teaching and health personnel, and also the salaries of staff both in the public sector and in the concerted sector and public universities, and also the costs of social security. 2016 and 2017 are going to increase wages a 1_per_cent. On March 9, 2018, the Government of the State, then Minister Cristóbal Montoro, agreed with the trade union organizations, an agreement to improve public employment and working conditions, for which wage increases for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020 were agreed, which could be achieved, depending on some variables also of the macroeconomic evolution, at 1.95_per_cent, 2.75_per_cent and 3.85_per_cent respectively. That is to say that this decision to increase the salaries of public workers, which, for what it does to the Generality's assumption, roughly equals the half of the assumption of expenditure will not finance, therefore, exclude what we pay for the return of debt, this decision of the Government of the State was taken unilaterally, without consulting the rest of the administrations, neither the Generality of Catalonia nor the autonomous communities nor joints, in which they have a much greater weight the staff expenses than not in the same Administration of the State. The Administration of the State is spent personally on the 19_percent of its assumption; the autonomous communities, 61_per_cent. This trade union agreement, which is obviously beneficial for public workers, has, for another group, a much more important impact on the autonomous communities, without the Government of the State having any additional recourse to finance what it commits and pays us, and, with that, we find ourselves very often; the latter, some of the decrees approved by the Socialist Government in Madrid, which modify the tax on capital transfers and which involve a loss of entry to the Generality, of which, obviously, therefore, we have asked, in application of the principle of institutional law, the Minister of Hisenda, therefore, that the Generality of Catalonia and the rest of the local communities should pay, of which, of course, we have asked, in application of the principle of institutional law, to the Minister of Hisenda, that the Generality of Catalonia and the rest of the local communities should not be called upon to reply to any other question. To this increase in staff costs, we have to add that of the increase in staff in general and health education areas, such as the said, not only for the increase of the population, but also derived from the agreement signed between the Generality and trade unions, on September 11, 2018, to make effective the amounts equivalent to an extra pay, left to the workers and workers of the Generality in the years 2013 and 2014, 40_per_cent of which is to be done during this 2019. I would point out that Parliament has adopted, precisely, a number of resolutions in which it urged the Government to reach agreements to return economic, labour and social rights employees and public employees suspected during economic recessions. I also want to make a point of the impact of the agreement that the Catalan Institute of Health concluded with trade union representatives on 29 November 2018, which included a series of measures related to the direction for objectives, career, staffing, modification of complements, primary care professionals and the incorporation of new professionals. It's positive, but it obviously has an economic impact and we don't have to take responsibility. In the face of the situation, for a band, as I said, to face up to our remunerated increments that this 2019 can reach a 2,75_per_cent, to make the return on a part of the amounts not collected corresponding to the 40_per_cent of an extra pay during the year 2013, we note that the presupposition of 2017 extended for this year is insufficient to meet the commitments. Therefore, we need to increase the assumptions of 2017, and the way to increase them is with an authority with a rule of law that allows a supplement of credit, therefore, a supplement of the assumption game, to increase staff expenses. This measure is the first part of the plan of action before the situation of presuppositional extension that we are bringing to the end of the Government, which we do with the set of departments and which must guarantee the level and quality of attention to the public service. For this reason, once we are reviewing the expenditure, we re-examine interventions in the field of public policies and devote resources to the areas..., we prioritize, focus resources on the areas where they have the most social return, paying special attention to those who need it most, with the aim of improving the welfare and progress of the citizenry, which is the reason to be the last of this government. The estimation of inputs to be perceived by the Government of Catalonia makes it possible to finance perfectly the credit supplement necessary to meet these commitments of expenditure, guaranteeing, at the same time, the compliment of the objectives of deficit, of debt and of the rule of expenditure, according to the regulations of fiscal stability. The supplement of credit, of this expansion of starting, is limited to the need for staff expenditure, direct and indirect; also to the financing of universities and concerted school. And it's finance, from one band, on account of the deficit target assigned to 2019, so, with the resources coming from the Finance Facility Fund, and from the other, for the more tickets, for the major finance model tickets that are released this year 2019 and that have right to understand Catalonia and the rest of the autonomous communities. Therefore, this forecast of entry is nothing other than that which was also included in all the assumptions of the autonomous communities which approved them and which were also included in the proposal of assumptions which we have, therefore, proposed, placed on the table the Government of the Government of Catalonia and which is at the disposal of parliamentary groups when it is well able to deal with it. Therefore, as long as there has not been sufficient presupposition in the current presupposition to meet the obligations that are necessary and urgent such as the validation of this decree law to grant a supplement of credit in the presuppositions of the Government of Catalonia for 2017, extended now, 2019. This start-up expansion, this credit supplement that is granted is for an import of EUR 813.9 million, financed, for a band, with the credit operations of the Finance Facility Fund, EUR 241 million, and it remains with the economic rights of the beasts on account of the financing model. Therefore, we ask the parliamentary groups to validate this decree, that it is nothing other than to validate the compromise of the joint institution of this country with its public workers; the compromise of the Government of Catalonia and this Parliament with which the public workers of this country are to go back to acquiring power; the compromise with our public workers, teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers and infirmers who have joined in the past years to the education and health of our country; the compromise with the public workers with whom we have signed the agreement of the return of the 40_per_cent of the extra payment of 2013 during this year and to the rest of our country. Therefore, it asks all parliamentary groups to validate this decree. Many thanks, Mr President, Mr President of the Generality, Councillors and Councillors, Lords and Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.125.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Next, we turn to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to fix their position, and has the word, in the first place, the deputy Martí Pachamé, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.126.0	President, Vice-President, advisers, deputies, deputies. The decision whether or not to approve the validation of this decree is the finding of a failure; a failure to have an alternative other than to block this decree, because the workers and workers of the Generality are not to blame for their ill-governance and because it is just that they are returning, by far, their wage rights, rights that have been secreted by the Government beyond what is acceptable, beyond what is abstractable, beyond what is tolerable; and that they are secreted for separatist interests to the labor rights of thousands of workers. It is for them, for these workers, that we make this arrangement, because we will not contribute to another disaster, yet worse, widening this situation. Fracàs, since we believe that, after the declarations of disembarkation of Vice President Aragonès, instead of raising another copy of the Finance Facilitation Fund, at this hour, we should already have been able to look for finance at the foreign markets. Fracàs, to try to sell 'em with a miracle of management stopped attending the FLA, to end up financing himself with the Finance Facility Fund. The compliment of the requirements needed to leave the FLA is due to elements that are not in government management, above all to the fact that GDP has increased over the past few years more than debt, because what is obvious is that the debt of the Generalitat, in absolute terms, has continued to grow, and in this, with its harmful management..., there has been something that has contributed to it. Fracàs, because of his refusal to take on his responsibilities. For you, the guilt of everything – and now we've seen it – all the others have it. Whose responsibility is it that the financing system carries so many years of reform pending? Don't you have any responsibility for this? Is it still the others' fault? Why don't they show up at fiscal and financial policy meetings? Why don't they demand all these things, their pacts, from within the Congress? It's much easier for them to say that the rest doesn't want the dialog, when you don't do anything to get it. To talk to impossible requests for completion is not to want to dialogue is to want the dialog to fail from the first moment in order to be able to do, then, the victims. Do you know what self-criticism is? Hasn't it been bad for all these years? I say this because, one way or another, or one or both, and at the same time, the PSC, have been in government since 2004. Before, better, let's not talk about it, huh? , of dark times, of « as at least 3_per_cent, no longer to mention it. From his addiction to the debt, I need to remember some data, because it is convenient to remember them. The tripartite, of which his party, Esquerra, formed part – and the formula that some are excited to re-edit – went from a debt of 12,200_million to a debt of 35,600 – 35,600 –, is to say, almost a 200_per_cent increase in only seven years and the rate of atatur passed, in the same period, from 10 to 17_per_cent. Well, as you can prove, here's an example of effective management and success model. You, what pleases them the most is to push taxes or generate debt, which is another tax, certainly progressive people. But their decree also causes us to be outraged, because, once again, they have tried to deceive all the citizens, making them believe that Catalonia has a normal financial situation and, as is true, it is in technical failure. It causes us to be able to prove that the statement of reasons in the decree is a rule of excuses for a bad payer. Is it maybe everything that relates the law decree to justify it is new? What happened to the non-res? Is it like the justification of the use of a decree law, an extraordinary resource that must be learned in a prudent and limited way for situations that are considered to be really urgent and convenient? Well, obviously it's convenient, since, among other reasons, it wouldn't be a waste to frustrate the legitimate expectations of the collection of you to function in the return of your foreign payments. But urgent? If it was so urgent, why wasn't it used before this mechanism? And they had to take a break, because, if not, at this hour we would see how, again, it wasn't paid. And it would be because of 155, Madrid or the king; you know, the usual culprits. This morning, reviewing the speech, I had a feeling; I don't know, I thought this decree wasn't a law decree, it was a fake decree, a trap decree. Why? Because I think maybe they're picking up some of their subs and subs of their tops, of those that you name digitally, that's, you said, from within the law. Won't they be pushing their own under you? Won't you be doing this out of the premise? Won't they give explanations about these aspects? Of course, "it's what we thought we'd approve the premise, they'll tell me. I'm sure he didn't know that Waterloo's lodger is willing to block the institutions, all the institutions; he's blocked the government and parliament, and he hasn't let it be discussed here in Parliament, the assumptions, since he doesn't get into his normal plans; his destructive time has no limits. But there's no false hope, we'll do everything in our hands to stop them and avoid the sinking of Catalonia and the rest of Spain into the hands of separatists and demagogues. Indignity, in the end, since the Government uses extraordinary instruments for ordinary questions. The instrument to deal with all these ordinary expenses that we have seen here is the assumption; the assumption that they did not dare to present themselves since they did not find the necessary support for their approval; the assumption that they did not present themselves and that the extreme weakness of the government is evident, and that today it has become apparent to them to force them to withdraw a decree from the law in the extremities. You don't rule, just pass the time. A few months ago we felt the vice president assume that we would no longer need the FLA and that now the autonomous community is financier through the Finance Facility Fund, as if this was a big change, when in the fund is the same dog with different necklace. You don't say that this funding is at zero_per_cent, kind of we'll never find in the funded markets; you don't say 10,000_millions of interests – one year ago, there's already a lot more – that we've saved ourselves thanks to the FLA. We only hear about the evil Queen of Spain, but not that she has saved us from the failed funding to which she has brought her mismanagement and the governance of the past years, the « as at least, the 3_per_cent and the expenses resulting from the coup to the democracy that you played in 2017. We have also heard them complain about the rigour of the FLA, the severity with which our community has been treated, which has been ideologically motivated, which in Andalusia has looked at itself on another side. It is always the excuse of a bad payer: instead of asking for the utmost rigour in the control of the expenditure of all public administrations, it is demanded that it is aimed at another side even though there may be more than obvious signs of possible misappropriation of complete public authorities, as for example a report of the Court of Auditors on the external action of the Generality has made manifest. You don't have to look at this? What's the matter with you guys? If there's nothing to store, you should be the first to want the accounts to be clear. How do we treat a government that claims it's looking at another side? Can citizens who scrupulously pay their taxes also ask us to look at another side? No, gentlemen of the government, no, the solution is not to preserve reality, but to bring about corruption; it is not ideology, it is ethics, it is morality, it is the obligation of the public servant. And for what he does in Andalusia, things are changing there. Worry about when we rule here, worry about when we start opening the falls as we did there. We heard the vice president say he wanted to refinance the international markets. We have heard strange explanations about how to seek financing lives from exotic countries, worthy of all trust. I'm sure they're trying to get us to leave the money unwittingly, I'm sure. Mr. Vice President, how are we supposed to finance ourselves on international markets? Will it be soon? We don't believe it, because the credibility of our own community is far from being the right one; we're the only autonomous community that still has the shady good rating. Is it another chance to blame others or do you have any responsibility for respect? But why is it hard for them to leave us money? Let's go back to that. In absolute terms, the debt of our community has only grown; in the next eight years the debt has doubled; in the present day it costs 80,000_million– 80,000_million–, and about 80_percent is already owned by the Kingdom of Spain, the Government of Spain. The debt represents 300_per_cent of the Generalitat's tickets. How do you plan to reduce the debt level? If we present this, a normal company, to a financial entity, it would actually be complicated for us to finance without this distribution of inputs and expenses. Every català, every woman, every man, every child or every baby just born, supports on its cap 10,500_euros of debt. That's a mortgage. Will you have a solution? You know? The real independence is not what you ask, it is what you have that lives free of debts or with debts that you can pay. What I'd like to ask is that I don't blame everything on the tax deficit again; I'm changing disks, this one's already pretty rattled. We just tell them that, if they don't know how to reduce the deficit and the public debt, if they don't know how to manage the Catalan economy, if they don't know how to make investors trust us again and that Catalonia has become an economic engine, if they don't know how to make the companies they've gone, if they don't know how to create business, if they don't know about it, please, take a step at the side, that we do know about it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.127.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, the Member of Parliament, Alicia Romero, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.128.0	Good morning, Vice President. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies... well, then, Mr. Aragones, you bring us today again a decree of presuppositional prorogation, we already voted for one here just a couple of months ago, and they're true some of the things you said, most of them are true, but I think you've forgotten to explain to us some more. And between these, then, why are we here today. And today we're here because we don't have any Generality-approved assumptions. And you said: "The Parliament authorises the accounts. Well, Parliament authorizes the accounts, approves them, whenever they enter the chamber, is registered and begins its parliamentary processing. But you didn't get them in. It's just that you didn't even approve of the execution board. We already have many months to tell them that the one who touches, by responsibility and by the obligation of the Government of the Generality, is to approve the assumptions of the execution council, register them in Parliament and start processing, and here, then, we will find ourselves. You talk a lot about not getting up from the table, but that's what you say I want to be sooner, I want to be sooner, but if we don't diet, the sooner we're not. So you do the same thing: "We don't get up from the table, we want to talk about the assumptions, we want to talk, we want to talk... Well, so very well, to say it in the area is stupendous, but then nothing else happens. So what you should do to be credible, Mr. Aragones, because we believe in a little more, that you already have, of credibility, you also know that I always say it, is approve them at your own execution council, register them in Parliament and start processing, and here we will find parliamentary groups with papers and the work that is done with a question of law. But do not say "the Parliament authorizes, as if we do not want to authorize it, as unloading the blame, no; the Finance Act says that on October 10th the assumptions must be entered. We know that in the last two years this has not happened, but it would not be enough for the government to once do the work that touches it in the day that establishes the law: 10 October, presentation of the assumptions; 31 December, approved assumptions; 1 of genera, presuppositions in march, there are no prorogations in presuppositions. It happens that, of course, we carry so much time with exceptionalities, therefore, that it already seems normal to us. But no, normal would be that. As I said in the other intervention, autonomous communities such as the Valencian Country or the Balearic Islands, with the same difficulties as we, but they presented some assumptions in time and approved them before the year ended. And, therefore, there are not as many problems as the Generality of Catalonia is having. So, we honestly believe that this is another weakness of a government that is quite exhausted, huh? You said: "There are other places where the assumptions have not been approved, right? , and said: « The State. Well, you went faster... or the party you represent, Republican Left, went faster in presenting the theme to the totality of the general assumptions of the State than in presenting here the assumptions that surround them. Clearly, if they're so fast with some things and so slow with the others... So, look, what happened there is that, as there were-there were items to the totality that were approved, President Sánchez decided to call elections because he didn't have a stable parliamentary majority that you allowed him to rule. You don't have it here, but there's no way they can call elections or make a reliable move. We believe that this is exhausted; Mr Riera of the CUP gave it to the President in control. So, anyway, I don't know what else to expect. The case is that this government is exhausted. The presuppositional prorogation, the prorogation decree that they bring us today is another example of this government's failure, but, well, let's keep going. I'm not sure what we're waiting for, am I? Because, if you entered the assumptions, you could say: "Look, I have a margin to see if I approve them and the legislature widens. But if they don't get in, I'm not sure what we're waiting for, Mr. Aragonès; we're a little lost. And then, when you say, "Well, there are no others who have not approved them, are there? ..., said: "The State. I've already explained it. After saying: « The Assembly of Barcelona. I won't, because we're in opposition because Mrs. Colau also brought us there. But there are gatherings where we've approved the assumptions, huh? Miri, Granollers and Santa Coloma de Gramenet. It is true that we have almost the majority there, and then I would say: "It makes me easy. Miri, I'll tell you another municipality: Mataró, new municipal groups, a group of non-adscribed governors. So, with these difficulties and six governors to the government, twenty-and-seven, the Mataró Assembly, led by David Bote, approved the assumptions. That's to say that it's clear that it can; it's clear that it can approve some assumptions. With difficulty, with atomization, with fragmentation, that you have put it a little like excuse for the difficulties of doing politics now. Well, we're in the moments that we are, but we have to settle down. I mean, if you want, you can. Therefore, you approve the assumptions in an executed council, carry the Parliament and initiate the proceedings. I don't think you're doing it for you. Because, of course, it is that, among other things, one of the tasks that we have policies is to dialogue, to negotiate and, therefore, to try, therefore, to push our policies forward. If not, then step aside, which is what we have already told you and what was approved in the previous plenary in this Parliament. You do the work, which costs a lot to do, and we insist that... well, Mr. Pachamé said now: "If not, do a gesture– no? –, "a step at the side. Well, you haven't introduced us here either, Mr. Pachamé, have you? ; this is the first party of this House, this Parliament, and we have not seen here any alternatives or pro-active masses to actually set up an alternative to this government that is exhausted. It's like they're actually making themselves 'hommy'... you guys. But in any case, I wanted to go to the law in concrete terms. The law decree, which is necessary, is true, Mr Aragonese... And I want to thank – I make a parenthesis – your department and Mr Castellanos that they met with the deputies the other day. I think he appreciates, this transparency and you're gonna be able to explain things without too much in the first place, and the truth is, you have to say when things are going well. We thanked him for the explanations, because he clarifies a little bit more to all of us at times technical decrees as this can be. But, we have to say, we can't be against, obviously, what today is the door to approve, we will abstain from what we say, because we may not be here, not be at this point; now, we must allow this to be done by responsibility. The Socialist Party has often done this: by responsibility, for the country, we believe that we cannot do pem-pam-pums and must try, therefore, that obviously something that is necessary is approved. Now, neither with our favourable vote, because it could have been avoided, this presuppositional extension, if you had approved a presupposition. Obviously, this decree goes to you because you have to assume a significant increase in Chapter 1, which is basically under the salaries of your employees. You complained a little: "Clearly, because the State has approved..., and therefore the autonomous communities we have to take into account, we have to incorporate in the premise that the State approves of the increase of the salaries of the employees. What I would like to say here is, "If you didn't force us to the State, what did the Generalitat do? Because I remember, and you also said it in the presentation of this decree, that there have been many motions in this Parliament forcing the government and the government, so, to pay the shares of the double payments that it was eliminated, that it was suspended, and many right suspicions that you still haven't recovered the working ones. And it is true that, because of the opposition, in concrete terms my parliamentary group too, we have tabled motions and petitions here and we have forced the government, so you will now pay 30_per_cent, 40_per_cent of the 2013 pay, but it has cost them a lot. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] There was... yes, yes; look, say no to Mr. Albert, from up there. Home, Mr. Albert, that September 20th motion cost us a lot to negotiate it, huh? And finally we got the government voted in favour, but if the opposition isn't here giving the moon, "squeezing and pressing, I don't know if I did. Therefore, look, brave, President Sánchez; brave, President of the State; brave, Government of the State, who decides, yes, to increase the salaries of 2018 and 2019 to the public function so that it forces us all. And as the Generalitat is doing a lot of the "wollen in these themes, so, look, it's already, welcome. Then Mr. Aragones goes here and says: "Look, supplement the credence because I have to face these obligations that come to me from agreements of the State between the State and the unions. So, miri, welcome. Because sometimes, if the generality doesn't have to do things, it doesn't. And we've seen it with this, which carries more blame to the state, and then the other is with the payments. And that's what I think we've all been through, and we've been here for a few years, and we've been adopting motions because the generality hasn't just negotiated the return of payments that are a right, that are the right, that are the right, that are the salaries of the working people, that we've already asked for a lot of effort and that I think it's worth it already, so we're returning them so much effort that they've done. In change, you continue without asking for effort, Mr. Aragones, to those who have more, who have more, who pay more, who cover more, and who inherit more. Because, to you, it is true that when he speaks of entrances, I say to him: "Home, you could have more entrances for tax reform; if you had more entrances, you could incorporate them with a presuppositional extension. But, of course, he sent us to CTESC a bill of tax measures and financing without any tax change... man, so look, of course, we have no expectations of having more tickets, but we could have more! You could be modifying the IRPF, the estate tax, and those tickets that came back more than we could be incorporating at these times despite the extension. You're saying you do have options. And then you, too, talk about the financing system, which has been running out since 2014. It is true, we have said it many times, we have denounced it here many times, but I also have to say that the parliamentary groups of Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia – in the previous parliamentary term, Junts for the Yes – voted many times against Catalonia's years defending the interests of Catalans in the negotiations of the financial system. Against it, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Home, there are motions here... well, there was Mr. Coscubiela, there was no Mr. Cid, and here we led to vote that the new financing system is negotiated, and together for the Yes voted against it, because you were for something else. Now it looks like they're not so much, but they were for something else and they were voting against it. So, of course, I now say: "Well, we don't have an up-to-date system... well, you didn't put much effort into it either. It is true that Mariano Rajoy and the PP government did not, but you voted here against negotiating a new funding system, and things must also be remembered. Finally, Mr. Aragones, who you ran a lot, you ran a lot to present the message to the totality of the general assumptions of the State and have not corrected so much to present the assumptions here. I open the board to execute the assumptions, enter them and register them in Parliament and start the negotiation to approve them, so we won't find any prorogations like this, decrees like this, that force us all and that obviously have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.129.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.130.0	...the finances of the Generalitat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.131.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. All the same, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.132.0	Well, Vice President, on our side. The decree that they bring us today on a presuppositional prorogation is more of an exhibition than the government of Torra and Esquerra Republicana is a failed government, huh? And I'll explain why. Miri, we believe, and we have said it repeatedly, that you are a government that is failed in social policy and environmental policy, and we also believe that you are a divided government and you are a broken government. Last week, one more show: they had to withdraw a motion, in this case on the right to vote electronic of workers and public workers, for the disagreements between Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, between the Digital Policies and the Treball Consulting. And it's also a government that more than anything else, as I said, I think it's a failed government in social policy, and we've also seen it in the Housing Decree, which they also had to withdraw, in this case because of lack of support. Because we thought it was a decree that basically the one he was looking for was an electoral makeup just before the general elections and the municipal elections; that more than what the decree intended was to prevent it being set aside for the door of the past measure, in this case, approved for the Barcelona Assembly of the 30_percent reserve for social and secure housing in the nine promotions of private promoters, and above all because it was a decree that counted on a strong opposition not only political in this chamber, that you did not have the majority to approve, but also a lot of social opposition. And, ultimately, also, in this failed government and in this government, I would say, divided, what is a more or more obvious show is the situation of presuppositional prorogation in which we find ourselves and what they present to us today as a presuppositional prorogation decree. You have always said that the assumptions of the year 2017 were the most social assumptions of history, they said, they repeated it actively and passively, when the data show, and we have also repeated them repeatedly, that this is not true. That is to say, the social mobilizations, in this case, of the months of September, October and December, that we had a late heat in social claus, because those assumptions did not hold out from a point of view of health rights, of rights in social policies, of rights in land also, and so on, of moves, of bombers... But it is more than just the data that we have repeatedly said: the assumptions of the year 2017 are the assumptions with the least social inversion per inhabitant of all the Spanish State. And those that you set up as an alternative, in this case, for the year 2019 only make Catalonia past the last place to be the fourth community for the Cua. And I say to them again: it is to say, before a government that has the assumptions with the least social inversion per inhabitant of Catalonia, we have... Because there have been assumptions approved in this case at Barcelona City Council – they may say what they want, but there have been assumptions approved at Barcelona City Council – there have been assumptions with the most social inversion per inhabitant of the whole State. And this is the double photograph we have, and it's what you represent, and what you represent, in this case, the Junta Government for Catalonia and also for the Republican Left. There are others – and I say them again – autonomous communities, such as, for example, in this case, Valencia or Balears, which have difficulties like Catalonia has with the financing system and which have an unjust financing system – if we recognize them: Catalonia needs to improve its financing system – they have an unjust financing system but they have other priorities. And, for example, the Valencian Community has greatly reduced, in this case, the waiting lists in dependence, which you are unable to do in Catalonia. And, look, the decree they present, I think she gives us the reason we warned. We told you that you said that the assumptions of the year 2019 meant an increase in the expenditure by 1,600_million euros and that in this case, the budgetary expenditure increased. But we repeatedly gave them and we did not get tired of explaining that most of this expenditure was compromised, that it was expenditure that actually 2018 is already ugly or that, in any case, it was subject to agreements – in this case, of the increase in the number of public workers – and that therefore there was no real increase in the pressure for social policies, for environmental policies, in camps like sanitation – that we are seeing that the lists of expectations of health do not stop growing – to reduce the lists of expectations in dependence. And the decree, I think we're right. Look, you, in this decree, what they explained to us – that obviously we appreciate the explanation that you made to us, in this case, the Secretary General of the Department of Economy –..., 1,039_million euros of which you were located like these 1,600_million euros are destined to increase the salaries of public workers or public workers who are already working in the Generality, which you obviously see with recovery..., which cost us, and it was able to arrive at a general vacancy in the Generality sector so that you could manage to recover at least 40_per_cent of the double payment of 2013. I want to remember that it was a general vagueness, the one that avoided it; it wasn't the good will of the government, in this case, huh? But, therefore, of these 1,600_million euros, 1,039, in this case, they have to see these wage increases of double pay or wage increases agreed with the unions. Because I want to remember that they say that the State obliges them to do so, but in any case, you have also made a flag – and I think it should be so – that it is an agreement signed with the representatives of the workers and public workers at the level of Catalonia. I don't want to think that if you didn't force them to the state, you wouldn't have made that salary increase, would you? So they don't make me look bad. And after 270_million euros practically, it is said, almost 300_million euros, are destined for subjective rights– dependence, guaranteed income... –, it is said, therefore, expenses that theoretically the Generality has to do yes or yes. Therefore, we are speaking that you presented us with assumptions that in reality only meant a real increase in new expenditure by the Generality of 300_million euros; 300_million euros that I believe you do not have at guaranteed hours. That is to say, there were these 350_million euros that you placed on the Generality's premise that you had to see with what you agreed, in this case, with the Minister of Hisenda, that you would refer to 150_million euros to make up for the competition in Mossos d'Esquadra – not all, but part – and 200_million euros for the third additional provision. Therefore, we believe and believe that the assumptions that you presented did not hold out from a point of view of the entries and that the more we came back another time to this report and these proclamations that you were the most social assumptions of history, when it wasn't real – you were just, weren't you? ... in this case, they were located only in the fourth community for the least social investment per inhabitant of the entire state – and more than they could not stand from a point of view of the entry policy. And that's what I'm referring to, the entry policy. We believe– and in this I think we can agree– that Catalonia needs more tickets– Catalonia needs more tickets. Then there are three possibilities to do so. One is a new financing system, and you don't want to negotiate a new financing system. We made them a message the other day to say: "Listen, let's replace the State, because it is its obligation. The State has expired the financing system since the year 2014, and we believe that from Catalonia we have made it easy for any government in the State, because if we don't claim that we need to negotiate a new financing system because we don't want to negotiate it, then we obviously make things easy for them. And we tell them to go to the state to claim a new funding system. I think it's legitimate – and I've always told you – that I have the timing of independence as its political horizon, but it's also time to say some small truths, and I think we can all agree on this room that it doesn't look like the year 2019, or even the whole year 2020, we have the necessary conditions because, in this case, it is possible to complete independence, that is its political project. We, in any case, have our political project, which has its difficulties, and we also recognize them. But, anyway, while we're at it? While we're not doing anything? And, therefore, I believe that it is our obligation as to at least ask the State to negotiate a new financing system. A_second element to claim, in this case, more tickets: if there are some general State assumptions that I honestly believe were good for Catalonia, I think we need to approve them. Because, of course, I agree that it is necessary to compensate for the third additional provision and in this case it is also necessary to compensate, for example, that we have skills that other autonomous communities do not have, such as the Squadron Mosses. But, of course, if we have some assumptions of the Generality in which there are transfers of 350_million euros in this case to Mossos, infrastructure, 41_million euros more for public transport and ATM, and more the beasts that you give us the State, that we could already charge them, and we took a « kick to the general assumptions of the State and present an address to the totality on the coast of Ciutadans and the PP, then we have fewer entries to do the politics of the day-to-day. I think that also has to be explained to the people. I think it's legitimate, and we've told them fifty thousand times as well... Or we'll be there where we need to report the prosecution of politics, that the prison situation is unfair and that there was no rebellion and there was no siege. But once again I say the same thing: we need to do day-to-day and people's policies, because people don't get up at the end of the month, they increase the waiting lists, we have dependent situations that aren't solved, we can't pay the guaranteed income to all the people who have right... Therefore, some answer must be given. Yes, yes, you speak: "It is a subjective right. What's going on is how to manage this subject right. We believe that with what you assume to be guaranteed income there is not enough; we need at least €500_million for guaranteed income, and that is what the entities say in this case. And the other is entry policy. And you, as active and passive, have refused to make a progressive fiscal policy and to make a real tax reform in Catalonia in progressive and environmental terms. They have a chance to do it. If you, as it seems, say that you agree with things that we have proposed, such as changing, in this case, no? The filing of documented legal documents... or so, we've registered a law. Approve it. But in any case you can also approve it in the Board of Governors. They didn't approve it, this law amending documented legal acts. Eighty-thousand euros, the deposit on the bank, which now no longer pays customers and the bank entities. Therefore, I return to say, we obviously will not block this decree; obviously, it represents major entries for public workers. But we believe that his government is exhausted, that he is a government, more than that, that he is in social and environmental failure and that more than that—I am sorry—we believe that he has no country plan, more than arguing who has political hegemony in independence; in this case, whether he has it together for Catalonia or Republican Left. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.133.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.134.0	Well, it's not the first time we've heard the president say that social rights are the driving force of the republic. Well, then, to the country that you govern, since the first quarter of 2012 productivity per hour worked has increased twice as often as the average wage; 25_percent of women assalaries cover less than €842_monthly; the remuneration of workers is still maintained at year 2000 levels. The benefits of companies in the Spanish State, in change, grew in 2016 a 200_per_cent respect the previous year, while these wages remain stagnant. In the last year, this disparity is still more visible: the richest 1_per_cent captured 40_per_cent of all the wealth created; the poorest 50_per_cent has 7_per_cent of the wealth. Women and young people – it's clear – are the ones who always end up paying the bill: the annual amount of a 20-year-old worker today is 33_per_cent lower than in 2018. The encarriage of life, in change, is a constant in aspects as essential as transport, housing or communication. And lastly, to say the least: 61,000_million euros in bank bailouts, 40,000_millions of which we will never recover. This is the reality of the country that you govern, the reality of the government that governs this country in these situations. Symbolism: base the exercise of the right on self-determination in a magical transition, without guaranteeing either sovereignty or social justice. Rhetorical: basing the exercise of the right on self-determination in republican rhetoric and progressive makeup or in a hypothetical negotiation with the State, which will never come up or come, as you know very well. The payment: you have distributed 477 other charges to the Government, with a salary of seventy thousand euros of middle. Opacitate: sixty daily appointments, and you make a decree without counting or even counting social movements in defense of the right to housing. Neoliberalism: this decree that you present to us today to cover urgent and urgent needs. New policies? Zero, cap not a new policy. You, in management do not want to change anything, follow a management that defends this mixed public-private model; a model that defends in sanitation, for example, the Siscat, a corrupt and client network that does not defend people's rights. For another band, you continue to support private schools with public foundations, and in many other areas, you have not changed re; neoliberal continuity, and progressive makeup, in social matter. Repression: in three months, five hundred identifications, fifty arrests and fifty judicial proceedings. Let us repeat again the three mantles of the president: "Social rights, the engine of the republic. We govern republicanly. The rights are taken, not asked; the rights are exercised. Look, as much as I repeat this, this is not going to turn into a reality, explain it to Rut, who came out of pre-trial detention yesterday, because they carried her before the court; explain it also to the bomber who was held in the lobby of this Parliament; explain it also to the Union of Barri de Poble Sec; or they can also explain it to the Union of Habitatge del Raval, the other day, or to all the relatives of those murders for the state terrorism of which you are absolutely complicit. Or have they not lost their lives, already, many veins, after suffering the anguish of a denunciation? So, look, we want to self-determine ourselves, and we want to self-determine ourselves precisely to exercise all these rights; to exercise the right to housing, to sanitation, to education; to decide everything, to change everything. And you, the independence of the business, seem to want to self-determine to continue maintaining this political hegemony and this political elite. We, the CUP, are not at their side; there are already some that they are closed to them, such as the PSC ; but to us at the side of their memories, of the records of denunciations, of the records in distribution of falls, of the records also in repression; they will not find us there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.135.0	In the next place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.136.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, advisors and advisors, to position us on the government's law decree, which seems to me to go from a supplement of credit to facing obligations above all in relation to the workers. Let me remind you of one of the president's words, one of the few sensible ones – I have already told you some other time – which he said last August: "In any democratic country, if the assumptions are not approved, governments will resign. This was at the beginning of August, a few days later, the vice president said: "Do not suffer, because it will not be necessary for the president to resign, because the assumptions will be approved. So this is April, neither the assumptions have been approved in the government, I no longer tell Parliament... nor the assumptions have been approved in the government nor the president has resigned. That's to say, you're contradicting yourself in a very short amount of margin time. They say, what you don't assume is something that can happen, that you get used to it; and in fact, it's happened. And, indeed, you have set the example of Spain, the Government of Spain has not approved the assumptions... no, but there are choices, which is what democratic countries do; that when a government is unable to approve the assumptions, which is the main law of any government, they resign and call elections. But neither did they. And, therefore, they bring us today this decree to supplement the claim of the assumptions of 2017– because this is the other question, it is the second exercise without assumptions– and it is able to face all the obligations that have been compromised, or that we have actually been compromised, by the laws of the State. Listen to me, I don't care if the State forces us to push public workers, so I'll complain; and you're complaining about the motion of the same decree. Or because Parliament forces them to do things, and you look at them; or because they have vagueness and have to make commitments to resolve situations that have been unfair for a long time, and they do so; and they do so with this claim supplement. And that is precisely why we, look, will not reach the level of responsibility of the Socialist Party, we will not support them in this decree, but we will not oppose it either. Now, man, take note of the example, as long as you present this decree to give compliments to agreements taken by Parliament, read 'Istos', the agreements of Parliament. A few weeks ago there was one, which I simply said – and they do not need a majority, I suppose – that the government approved the assumptions – the government – in order to be able to see them in Parliament. And I suppose in the case of the government you have to have enough to pass the assumptions and bring them to Parliament. But last week we also gave something to Parliament, and it seems that it is not hidden, to Parliament, or hidden for whom they are concerned; and whoever does not interest them, do not listen to it. Last week we also told them, escort, if they are not able to approve assumptions, they have two possibilities: the question of trust or elections. Dismissing and electing, which is precisely the same as President Torra's, referring to a democratic country. And so we find ourselves – and so we find ourselves. To pass this decree, are there sufficient resources? Remember that it is a decree that provides for a credit supplement of 813_millions, 814_millions of euros and so on. Are there enough resources? Yes, we are on condition to say that there are sufficient resources. And that's what we can say, basically, for motius. First, has the Government of the Generalitat cleared the accounts? Yeah. But with transparency? No, no, Do you know why they cleared the accounts? They know it perfectly; they won't say it, they won't recognize it, but they know it perfectly because the Generality's accounts have improved in recent years: because neither 2013, nor 2016, nor 2018 have there been assumptions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, counselor, yes; there have been no assumptions, they have not been able to increase the expenses; but in change, they have increased the tickets, because the tickets have continued to come. But, in addition, the tickets have increased – and here is the second reason – thanks to the fact that, especially in Spain, there was a government that reformed, and it was able to grow the economy, which, in the end, brings the tickets. Therefore, you can approve this decree, and bring it to validation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.137.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.138.0	...in this Parliament, thanks to these two motii. And, basically, to the best of the economy, to which you certainly don't contribute...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.139.0	Congressman, you've run out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.140.0	...positively. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.141.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Lluís Salvadó has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.142.0	Thank you, President. Well, in facing this debate today for the validation of this decree, you have a certain logic that today reproduces a whole series of debates that we have been hearing during these last weeks; especially, in the debate that ended around the non-approval of the assumptions of 2019, and around the situation of presupposition. And it has a certain logic, and it's also sterile, this reproduction of all these debates and all these arguments, that we've all folded out over these last few months. And it's logical, because we find ourselves in an electoral campaign, and it forms part of the standards of the campaign game, that each one tries to put emphasis on that which reinforces his political profile, his position, in that the difference from his political opponents. But now it is also sterile, because it seems that we already have everything told us; it seems that every one has already made his diagnosis, has not drawn his conclusions. For some, if the assumptions of the State are not approved, it is the opposition's fault, and if the assumptions of the Generality are not approved, it is the Government's fault. Two rods, two different forms of measuring, according to what suits us. And also – and pointing out some of the questions that have been mentioned – here it has been repeatedly insisted that the government carry the assumptions and then we will have the opportunity to dialogue and negotiate. Precisely, these are political groups that, before the Government of Catalonia made any move on the premises, have already repeatedly announced that they have no interest or objective in negotiating these premises. Therefore, somehow, we remain frank and honest, it is not possible to demand at the same time "submit some assumptions, and, for the other side, reiterate that they have no intention of negotiating these assumptions with the Government of Catalonia". On the other hand, he was commenting on the diagnosis of how everything went, and it is obvious that for others..., we seem that the fact that some have tried to subsist the debate of the Catalan assumptions to the Spanish assumptions, they already know that some, especially the Catalan republicans, do not like that very much. Also, for another band, it has been reiterated that the solution is a question of trust. It has been repeated both on the part of the Socialist Party, as well as on the part of Ciutadans, to take a step side by side, as if someone believed they should take a question of trust or take a step side by side will solve the presuppositional problems of the Government of Catalonia. And you know that, to the political formation I represent, the ballot boxes don't scare us. We love democracy, and in fact, the ballot boxes always please us, and we commit ourselves so much to the ballot boxes, that, to defend them, we assume, as the thirty companies and companies that were processed yesterday, huh? [[applause]] , the compromise; we consciously take the compromise with the ballot box, and we accept and are willing to take this repression on behalf of the Kingdom of Spain, as many and many times have made defenders of national, civil and social freedoms, far from the history of our country. And we did it today, in the Spanish 21st century, as did other companies, in the Republican era; as did other companies in the Civil War, and as did other companies in the long night of Francoism; to assume for the defense of democracy and for the defense of the ballot box the repression that, historically, imposed the Spanish kingdom. But today it does not seem so obvious to anyone that the ballot boxes follow no real solution for the economic and budgetary management of the Government of Catalonia. Many years ago... many things have passed far beyond our country, and none of these far beyond our country have decanted and altered the political majority of Catalonia. Nor did he break the Constitutional judgment of 2010, against the Statute of Autonomy, against a statute that was approved in reference for the citizens of our country; nor did he break this balance of blocs the participatory process of November 9, 2014; nor the referendum of October 1, 2017; nor did he rescue repression by the Kingdom of Spain against the dissidents of the 78th Regime, against the dissidents of the indissoluble unity of the homeland. These episodes have changed the blocks, and it won't be for lack of opportunity. We have spent, since 2010, four times, by the ballot box, in Catalonia. We spent four times in the polls, only eight years: therefore, opportunities to unbalance the majority did not exist, and they certainly did not take advantage of them. And today's call to go back to the polls can be useful to embolish the exchange more; it can be useful to wear down the government from the opposition; now, making some five elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, in eight years, does not seem to have to solve the inability of this Parliament to set up a solid majority, in the midst of the electoral campaign of a lot of public institutions. Among other things, because the opposition formations – and Mrs Romero has also commented quite rightly – already had the opportunity, at the beginning of 2018, to set up an alternative majority; they already did. And in fact, Ciutadans was the first political formation of this Parliament and they did not take advantage of it. [[Widow's remorse.]] And they didn't take the responsibility of trying to pull a government forward for our country. And if they have it today, they know what they have to do; if they have an alternative today, they know what they have to do: prove it; prove that they have an alternative majority in this parliamentary chamber and make it effective. And like that, they didn't do it, nor do they seem to have any intention of doing it, what we're responding to today is taking the reality, and it's taking responsible action with the country that allows us to take the necessary actions so that day by day continues to work. But, beyond the partisan and legitimate strategies of each political formation, today it corresponds that, from the government, and especially from the vice-presidency, or from the Department of Economy, there are solutions, there are proposals to push the country forward, as well as the department did already during the year 2018, managing the assumptions. Some transmit and systematically resort to this mantra, new mantra, of governance. In 2018 the Government of the Government of Catalonia executes the 24,693_million euros, executes them, spends them and brings them to term in investments mostly of social character to offer the public services of which the Catalan Government does not have competence. Therefore, the Government of Catalonia, 2018, is spent until the last cent, and mostly on social policies. Disgoverning is what makes repeated governments from Madrid, they already follow from the PP or they already follow from the PSOE, in the investments that should be executed in Catalonia and never end up running; they are supposed and never end up running. That does have a good point and is a good example of governance. The Department of Economics managed, in 2018, strictly, and it controlled the expenditure, and it reduced the debt's burden on GDP, and it reduced the payment terms to the providers, as another autonomous community has done with this intensity. And the Government of Catalonia has done it, as has been done by most of our country's assemblies, they follow the color that follows. And that's what it is to do to public institutions and governments, to rule, as long as you have vast majority in plenary as when they don't exist. And govern and deploy solutions when you can approve assumptions or when political circumstances do not allow you. And to find solutions; to find solutions that, certainly, from the government of Madrid have not ended up, because, in fact, at these moments, we count an increment of the beast that the government of the PSOE has not found the legal formulas so that they can concretely and materialize that the money and resources can reach Catalonia. And the government of the PSOE has been unable to assume these obligations with the citizens of Catalonia and today we cannot have this liquidity to develop it. Yes, as the Vice President has already said, we agree to apply the wage increases agreed for the State. And the complaint we make about political formations is not that we don't like to implement these increments, but that we don't get the economic resources to be able to deal with them. And, Ms. Romero, a point: this pact between the government and the unions was brought to an end on March 9, 2018, when Mr. Rajoy ruled, not in Mr. Sánchez's period. It is up to us to assume all the obligations, to assume the tops of the deficit, the tops of the debt, and, in any case, not just the tickets and the opportunities to be able to carry them to term. In any case, today, the Government presents a series of measures that are accompanied by the Government's administration; measures that must be managed on a day-to-day basis, which must be able to guarantee public services. And, therefore, it seems to me that it is the responsibility of all the political formations of this chamber to give you agreement and facilitate that the government can govern and that [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] You'll be able to get your share back...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.143.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.144.0	...of the power acquired that in its moment they lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.145.0	Thank you very much. Finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Jordi Munell has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.146.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, public, good morning. Well, as my predecessor, Mr. Saved, has said, we have converted a little, so, this approval of the credit supplement, a little, into a general debate, almost, right? Because we talked about pushing taxes, we talked about the debt, we talked about Andalusia, we talked about the magnificent reforms of the PP in the State, we also talked about the bailout, about police identifications, but I think it's up to me, how I know the past, to refocus what the vice president and economic advisor, Mr. Aragones, explained to us, because, if not, we will no longer know or vote when we speak of this supplement of credence. Therefore, I will repeat a little and do something about it, so what happens to us, because when we give support to a government, the Government, although we can discern the causes why we are here or where we have come from..., it is also up to the Government to take decisions and it is up to the Government to take solutions, and in this case, therefore, the solution goes to supplement the assumption extended two years ago to be able to face up to the day by day and to govern and above all also to attend to the people of Catalonia and also to the people who care for the people of Catalonia. So, like the economic advisor and vice president said, huh? , from 2017 to 2019, in two years, therefore, the population attended, the people, in Catalonia, have increased, those that are attended at school or education level, or those that are attended at the level of sanitation, or those that are attended at the level of social services. We also have to take into account, also, that there are nine laws, such as the Law of Dependence, or new benefits that are incorporated, such as the outpatient dispensation of medicines, or the services of childhood or youth, or the arrival, for example, of the minor unaccompanied, that compel the Government to take solutions, despite the fact that many times you do not have the source of the funds, because the State does not bring you, more than the latter, and more than the latter saves you in time. It is also true, as has already been said, that a good part of the administration and maintenance, therefore, of what is the structure of the government and of the services it provides to the citizenry also increase. As I said before, so are the emergency services. There are commitments from this Parliament to equip, therefore, the services of emergency and security of more mediums in this 2019. We also talked about the rise of the school population 2017-18 and 2018-19. And we also talked about commitments to the health staff, huh? , some of them, therefore, a few months ago, as agreed to the ICS – the Català de la Salut Institute – last November 2018, with concrete measures, eh? , affecting the professional career, the direction by objective, the modification of complements to the professional, all to improve the attention to people and reduce the waiting lists. Therefore, these are government commitments. Therefore, when the government is faced with these compromises with solutions. And also, as has been said many times before, there has also been an increase in salaries, which are in Catalonia, but also those agreed by the central government, and which, therefore, are of application, as Mr. Salvado said a few moments ago, and which, therefore, please us or not, please us in the face of the functioning, but they must apply without having the resources that should accompany these agreements. There is also the phenomenon of recurrence, which has been done a little bit. The recurrence means that when 2017 or 2018 is agreed, the following year is used again, right? And here we would have, therefore, the salary increase of 0.25_percent of the year 2018, we would have some consolidations of teaching staff seedlings of the previous year and we would also have – it is to be expected – retirements of mutual staff, which will be replaced by social security staff, at a higher cost, and also the increase, therefore, of social security bases. All this is called recurrences, and therefore the assumption should be made. As we are in the supposition extended, therefore, I should like to give you these increments. And also, and it has already been done, so it has already been talked about..., it is commitments, therefore, to deal with the 13th and 14th foreign payments, which also went through this Parliament and that there is a commitment, therefore, concretely, for 2019, concretely, to make 40_percent of the 13th and 14th payments of the staff of the Generality. And, therefore, all this, which is a compromise, we have to equip it and we have to adopt it. Therefore, in this sense, and as has also been done, since the deficit objective, the surplus exists and, therefore, the forecast of an increase in GDP allows it..., therefore, in this sense, it is lawful, therefore, that from the government's action it is proposed this supplement of credence; that moreover, the Government approved yesterday also an agreement to make an interdepartmental distribution according to the priorities of care for people in all the different areas. Therefore, this is the proposal we are proposing. In this sense, therefore, all the support to the Government to govern, to take decisions and solutions, solutions for the citizens of Catalonia, beyond the problem that affects us in the country, that there should be much to talk about, eh? Because of everything we've said before, from the debt to Andalusia, pushing taxes or reforms... no one talks either or they talk with a very low mouth about the tax deficit, huh? , these more than nearly €2,200 per year for Catalonia of tax-weighted motxilla that it carries if we calculate it in monetary funds or of almost 1,400 if we calculate it in flow of the cargo-benefits. That's not what anyone's talking about. And, surely, if you don't exist, you wouldn't have to make these assumptions today, even if you were extended. Thank you. Good morning. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.147.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, we're going to vote. According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and that the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The Decree Ill 7/2019, of 2 April, granting a supplement of credit to the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2017_has been validated by 60 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. According to Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, and once this decree has been ratified, I ask the House whether any parliamentary group wants to process this decree as a bill of law. [[Pause.]] No, no, So much. we can definitely give by validated this law decree. And let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the total debate on the proposed law on measures for the prevention and treatment of child abuse. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the first word is the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me, it's true; this one's late. [[Proposal for the creation law of the Natural Heritage Agency (totality debate)]] [[202-00036/12]] What's on now is the totality debate on the creation law proposition of the Natural Heritage Agency. Right now. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, as this legislative initiative has been presented jointly for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, we shall first open a two-minute intervention round for each of these parliamentary groups proposing to present the initiative. It has the word, therefore, in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades. When he wants to. [[Long break.]] Come on in, Congressman. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.148.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Catalonia has a close link between people and natural spaces. The exploitation of the territory and its natural resources has been a constant one. Catalonia is a small country. And that's the link that's been shaping the territory. It is also true that the rapid transformation of the last decades has put territorial balance and conservation of natural heritage at risk. It is also true that a little more than 30 per cent of the territory of Catalonia has some form of protection. Now, if we went into his management, my parliamentary group found faults; many faults, found faults, eh? Socialists and Forward Units believe that conservation of natural heritage is a benefit for everyone, for society as a whole. We believe that it is a natural heritage policy that takes advantage of the enormous advantages that a proper management brings as much from the field of socio-economic development as for a good functioning of the territory. In short, what has moved us to subscribe to this bill and which has already motivated us in the previous legislature is the best of the welfare of the people who live in the territories of our country. Mirin, countries United States, with Britain, with Canada, with France – to name a few, eh? – they have a powerful natural heritage policy that they have converted into a first-level economic activity; not just conservation of what they have, but a first-level economic policy. And someone can ask – because sometimes it's a question, right? , it is a topic that arises – because it is necessary to preserve natural heritage and biodiversity. I could list various reasons, but I would like to list three: as a dynamotizer of local economies and to avoid territorial abandonment – this morning the deputy Óscar Ordeig spoke to us about Catalonia oblivion –; also as one of the main sources of environmental benefits and services that we have, that in terms of national comptability..., that this is sometimes a definition that we do not serve too much, but in terms of national comptability it can be equated to the country's gross domestic product, and also because it is instrumental in dealing with climate change. Mirin, making politically correct speeches in favour of the environment, in defense of natural heritage values, biodiversity, the fight against climate change, is easy. Now, when it comes to politics, when it comes to making decisions, when it comes to allocating economic resources, there are more difficulties, huh? Now just three years ago – you must remember the secretariat of Sustainability, which also accompanies us at this session – the Socialists Group, the same Member who speaks to them, then asked the Territorial Councillor about these questions. It was approved by a young man, a young man by a very large majority. It's been a year and a half, also in this hemisphere, at the end of the previous legislature, this same text we're wearing today to try to get its processing started – I'm convinced it's going to be that way –..., there's already been this debate. Three years, a year and a half, but today we still find ourselves here starting the debate. And to begin this debate, honourable Members and honourable Members, it has cost, for which we have understood, God and help. And to start this new stage – and let's hope, my parliamentary group hopes that this will be the case – we have to say things to each other, huh? What happened these past few years in Catalonia? In the management policies he talked to them before, right? There was a fragmentation of planning and management competitions around natural heritage policies. In good part the government d'Artur but corrected a little tret; not everything, eh? because there are still competitions between two departments – you know that my parliamentary group has always advocated that sustainability policies should be in one department. So, back up, fragmentation... there's been a paralyzed process of drafting and approving protected natural space planning and management instruments. There has also been, from our point of view, neglect and marginalization of the management of natural spaces, in particular of natural parks and national parks, which have lost much of the work tools, which are essential for good management. And above all, what has happened has been a much higher presuppositional reduction than the averages of other departments. In some cases there have been decreases; in this case, decreases of 60_percent of the presupposed resources we had before. And it's true that in the last assumption, the year 2017, in a very small way, there were many more resources, or a few more resources, huh? I am talking to you about 2017, because from then on it is obvious that this Parliament has not debated any kind of assumptions. And, therefore, there has been a constant loss of human resources, material resources, a breakdown of the management teams, which make it very difficult to compliment the objectives set for the very standards of creating these protection spaces that we have in the country. We have a different kind, but there's been a breakdown, isn't there? And, therefore, this fragmentation, this lack of resources, so, what they do is affect, from our point of view, hardly the conservation policies of the territory. Why do we support this law? – We said that a year and a half ago, when it was also debated in Parliament. So why do we consider that the current Catalan legislation on natural heritage and its administration are not adapted to the environmental, social and economic reality of the moment. And we also say at that moment, and we keep it at these moments: isn't there enough with this law? No, we don't think so. From our point of view, it is essential that we approach it once in a while... It is also one of the promises we listen to all the counselors; when they come to the beginning of the legislature to explain their government program, they tell us that, and then there is no way that this is materialistic. It's a natural heritage and biodiversity law, huh? ; it is necessary a law of agricultural areas, which is being processed – it is the only one that is being processed – and then we need another tool, which is the new law of territories, which is also spoken much but which has not just seen the light. And, therefore, we need these legal instruments and, moreover, we need a law that takes over the Natural Heritage Agency, which is a more manageable tool. So we'll give them support. Despite this, the Socialists and Forward Units defend that only with the creation of this figure will not be enough. It has to have a vocation, from our point of view, of permanence, an agency that is not submissive to structural changes that have so far been overtaken, eh? Therefore, an agency that has a permanent structure, with the capacity to manage, preserve the natural heritage, marking objectives in short, medium and long terms. An agency that is also able to work cross-sectionally and in a network, with shared governance among public administrations involved in the conservation of natural heritage, also the local administration. A governance that is inclusive, participatory, of all the actors involved in conservation. We need to listen to the various actors before we just define which skills to hold the new model, beyond the ones indicated in the same law. And finally, if the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia do not guarantee the compliment of the basic objectives of the policy of conservation of natural heritage and biodiversity, this agency will serve very little. Beyond what the Climate Change Act says, the government has to make it clear that resources need to be put in place. Mirin, the Socialists [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I finish, President – we will work because when the government's assumptions arrive in Parliament, if they arrive someday, we can get to the target we had in 2010.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.149.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Lord Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.150.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, councillors, the Agency of Nature is a little bit like the myth of Sisif, the one who was ordered to sprinkle a stone in the face of a mountain that, when it seemed to make the top, would roll back down and touch it indefinitely. It is now the fourth time that an instrument has been created that serves Catalonia to manage and protect its nature, its natural heritage and its biodiversity, and we hope that the fourth time it is over. The first was 2006 and the last was 2017, which was due to the intervention of Catalan institutions. And, therefore, the first question we should ask ourselves is why we have worked for thirteen years to create an agency for the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of natural heritage in Catalonia. And I think that history is a bit of an old one, that of all the policies that have tried to protect common rights and good and lobbyists and pressure actors that have done their best and impossible to stop it, to delay it, to obstruct it and to remove it. And the reality of Catalonia is a little bit what it is: the 1,2_percent of Catalonia's forest owners practically have half of the country's private forests, and they have set up themselves as a lobby of pressure that avoids them being submissive to the direction of country objectives, to the direction of economic objectives and to the conservation of heritage and biodiversity. And this has led to delays and has led to something that we consider to be even harder: that today is created an agency of nature where the forests of private property, which are the three_quarters_parts of the forests of Catalonia, remain out of control and control of the Agency of Nature. And, therefore, the first thought that in fact is that it doesn't look good. We're creating an agency that doesn't have any skills or obvious functions in the field of forests. Surely this is the minimum consensus that we have been able to reach all the parliamentary groups that we have made today and the groups that will support it, but we wanted to say so from the outset. It is insufficient and it is shameful that there are pressure groups that have the ability to delay a necessary law, a necessary agency like this, for years, and that have the ability to tell the government what it has and what it does not have to manage in this country. We have said so many times: the debate of competitions in Catalonia is not just a debate between the Spanish State and the Government of Catalonia; it is also a debate between the great enterprises of this country and democracy and public services. Ultimately, the management of nature has never been left out of this debate, both in the management of biodiversity and natural resources as in the management of water, two processes of privatization that are now in court, that wanted to deliver the water of this country to Agbar and Action, and we had to wait for the courts to follow..., because the Public Administration had handed them over to private actors. And, therefore, the first reflection we want to make today is that it corresponds to the conjunction of Catalonia's citizenship to preserve its natural resources, its natural heritage and its diversity, to manage them and to build a model of the future, and that, therefore, the Agency of Nature must be a leading space in these country objectives, and not a leading space for the lobby. The second question that we will have to make after this delay is how much it has cost the citizenry of Catalonia that the Generalitat has committed thirteen years to making an agency of nature. I think the biggest cost here is the loss of biodiversity. We have practically lost a quarter of the population of 258 species of vertebrates and invertebrates since 2012, a quarter in only six years. And if we take a more global look, this problem is harder. Catalonia is a territory of high biodiversity in Europe and high biodiversity in the world; it has Mediterranean, agrarian, middle mountain and high mountain habitats. And, therefore, having a rich and diverse heritage, its responsibility to preserve it is a responsibility that goes beyond our borders. And we also want to point out that biodiversity complements ecological tasks that are of vital importance to our economy, especially that of the primary sector, such as pollution, pest control and also the ability to generate a tourism model of quality that is a driving force for rural economies. From here, the need for the agency that begins to walk today, and the need for you to take strength, functions and skills, as we make it walk. I, today, will draw a few portraits that I believe the agency has and that are important both for its legislative development and the discussions that we will have in this Parliament, especially for its future, and that it is a diligent agency, able to protect and preserve the natural heritage of Catalonia. The first of them is that it has to be an agency of reference to Catalonia. So that the agency of nature has the capacity to generate a democratic area of governance in the territory, that we have today natural spaces managed by different institutions: for the joints; for the deputies; for the Generality; co-managed with the State, like the national park; we have natural spaces managed by private spaces, by the Custody Office and by private forest owners. It therefore means that this agency is an agency capable of making an integral management, and integral objectives before this plurality of actors, and that it is also a point of reference for all ecological entities, which have been closed in their creation and which will require an agency of the nature of reference to generate knowledge, to generate conservation culture and also to generate conservation direction in Catalonia and that conservation is once again a key element in our administration. It must also be an agency of reference in the planning of public policies and this means, in our opinion, that the agency of nature has the power to make binding reports when projects of public work, infrastructure or mobility policies between others are planned; so that what we gain from this agency in the natural spaces, at the moment, and in the spaces that we dare to co-manage, we do not lose in the rest of the space or in the rest of the public policies that this country is making. The third challenge we are facing is that it is a presuppositional ambition. We cannot have a reference agency with accumulated retails of 60_per_cent since 2010. It may be public responsibility and the preservation of natural heritage at the centre of public policy, and it may also require responsibility from the rest of the society's actors, and this means that it must be a fair and ecological tax. And, therefore, two things, so that we stop detailing assumptions in the conservation of the natural environment and that part of the taxes, like at least, that are generated from economic activities that have a direct impact on the natural environment, such as the tourist tax, revert directly in the conservation of nature. And we consider that we can also abandon the details in a third element, which is that of public workers. I, here, wanted to make three points. The first is that we consider it essential that Catalonia has a Medi Ambient advisor or advisor in this country. With the details, we lost Medi Ambient's advice, but I believe that given the strategic importance of sustainability policies in this country, apart from the fact that we mislead and recover it, we cease to disperse competitions between different departments. The second thought that we want to do is that we cannot continue to affect public administration with staff detail, retirements that are not copper, indefinite interinatges, etc. We need to do a public conservation service at the height of our country's backs. And the third one, and because it's not said, is like an environment-friendly thing in this country. It cannot be that the 60-year-old environment working in this administration is outside the future of conservation policies in this country. It is important that environmental experts have an area recognized to the Administration and can develop their tasks and build on the knowledge accumulated in our university system, in the Public Administration. And the fourth repte, which does not include this law, is that this agency has ambitious strategies also in some aspects that are not collected. I will highlight two, I suppose that in the subsequent debates we will have time to deploy them, that of environmental mediation, the resolution of conflicts resulting from the protection and conservation of the environment and that of environmental education, a key tool also to generate conservation awareness and generate a culture of conservation and a relationship with nature different from what we have had during these years. In conclusion, today we have the fourth opportunity to start walking the agency of nature and we are content, despite the limitations we see, that this is so, but we need to be ambitious and we hope and desire that their deployment will be faster and more ambitious than their creation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.151.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mr Ferran Civic's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.152.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Councillor, councillor, however, above all, the relevant councillor of the branch, also the secretary, the representative of the Catalan Institute of Studies and, above all, also the people of the third environmental sector, that the people only think of the third social sector, but there is also the third environmental sector, which is so much or more important than the other to the welfare of society and, above all, of our surroundings. And I also take this opportunity to greet not only the deputies and deputies from here to the chamber, but also Councillor Rull, because since today we are talking about green, so it would also be very good for the Councillor to be here today, instead of gritting a prison. Therefore, Counsellor Rull, who knows, therefore, that today we are talking and thinking about you and, above all, we want to make possible, quite quickly, this objective that I had. [[Greetings.]] I also take this opportunity to recall three Members who were here in this chamber when this proposal was brought to fruition, and that 155 fell, who are Members of Parliament, Mireia Boya, Hortènsia Grau and also the Member of Parliament, Violant Cervera, who are not here today and who also believe that it is just to remind them, because today some will repeat from the previous legislature, but they have not repeated, but I believe that they have as many gains as we are here today that this is a reality; therefore, also a record for them. The deputy Terrades has made a list, a checklist– calm, not pathetic, that we will speak in favor– that, even in enlargement, of things that we have pending, because, certainly, we are struggling in the fact that we have an agency of natural heritage, but also, obviously, therefore, we have the Law of Biodiversity, the Law of Energetic Transition– that knows that the divendres us also find the different parliamentary groups with the department to look at how we pull it forward–, a new law of animal protection, because, in the 21st century, it cannot be passed according to any other thing. I suppose they saw the images, that could have passed here to Catalonia, but that passed to the Aragó, with a hunter who tortured vilely, mercilessly, a guinea; therefore, the van absolved. This, here in Catalonia we can't afford, neither Catalonia nor anywhere. Therefore, we need an animal protection law. We also need a new law of zero residue, because what we have now is insufficient; a new law of environmental quality and that means also a new law that you will see, once and for all, on the subject of air quality. I know that, after, therefore, the Group of Joints for Catalonia, have an inquiry to the Councillor, therefore, we all have to do this, once and for all. And, logically, the Law of the creation of the Natural Heritage Agency, which was also linked to the natural parks we have pending, such as the Montsec or the Ter and the mountains of Prades. I, one of the obsessions I have, in fact, to be here is not only to make the republic, but, above all, to make the natural park of the mountains of Prades. [[relays]] Therefore, counselor... You already know, therefore, that one of the most obsessions – and I had also told Councilman Rull and also the secretarial know perfectly well... It is that, of course, I am in my village, in the Snuggle of Francoli, and of course, I see the mountains when I am the clothes and say: "Ostres, from the White Book of Nature to the Catalan Countries, which is said to be a natural park and, curiously, we still don't have it. Therefore, we continue to work, I hope that the agency will be a good thing to make it possible and, logically, therefore, when we also have the resources that come, above all, from the Natural Heritage Fund, through the Law of the CO2 tax, which is more viable and, logically, in agreement with the territory, that I know that there has been work and we are well advanced in respect. And today we finally have this agency. The agency that would be like the third pot that was missing, right? Of the famous triangle, therefore, of the most holy trinity of the environment, we have the Agency of Residus, all that we hope there is a new law of zero residue; we have the Catalan Agency of the Water, that we hope that soon we also have a new model of management that is not only for purification and supply, but also for reuse and recovery, and, logically, the Agency of Natural Heritage. It is what we needed because I remember that, in the previous legislature, the first visit that Councillor Rull made was, precisely, to the Natural Park of Montsant, which was the last park that he created and that he came first and that he found out and so ratified, the precariousness of means that we have in the natural parks, not only that of Montsant to be the last, but to all and each of the parks, so it is very important that, once and for all, we put threads into the needle not only to create the instruments, which, for that reason, today, it is important to make this instrument, but above all, to put pressure on it. Because there is a curse, I don't know if they know it, the curse of the tour – I'm not talking about Montserrat Tura, a former councillor, nor about the Festivals of Tura, of Olot – but everything that ends up in this country has very little presupposition, which is nature, obviously, "culture and agriculture and all this, we all fold, we have to make it possible to change. And, here, I pull back a little too the glove, also from the deputy Terrades, as well as from the deputy Ferro, when they claimed a department of Medi Ambient, I fully shared it. But I, rather than an environmental department, would want to be a ministry of environment or an ecological transition of the Catalan Republic with a hundred_per_cent of skills and I hope that, here, we can find ourselves, as a minimum, with you and I also hope that with the Socialists someday. But I think that the object is this and that, logically – and that I did share with Mr Terrades as well – what they did to Spain seemed very good to me: in a ministry of economic transition, which includes the whole subject of energy transition, also includes all issues of natural environment. And let's also remember: the territory must be a point of finding and not a battlefield and I hope that this agency serves as a means between the production and the conservation sectors which, until now, have always ended up fighting for interest or for errors of visions or what it was. I trust that I will cease to be so, because this agency, now, initially, surely, we are at the calfs, will be the principle of all and so much good, so we have agencies as powerful as some of the countries that have been mentioned by the Member of Parliament Terrades, because, at the moment, perhaps, it will only manage the 30_percent of the country, of the spaces that we have protected, that, curiously, I suppose you already know that all that is PEIN space and the Nature Xarxa 2000, practically coincide with the 100_per_cent, but, of course, it is nature and environment that is not where there are the occelles and trees, but nature and environment is the 100_per_cent of the country, the 100_per_cent of the territory. It is not only that space that we look at if we preserve the water quality of the river heads, but also the one that we take to the river, to the rivers, the ones that we take to the March and the one that we emit, above all, from our vehicles – those that do not have electric vehicles. That said, today, we're here, I think we're in a hurry. I place here all the parliamentary groups here present, first, to a petition that we have received from the Government, which, when we finish here, we go out to take a group photo to celebrate that it pulls forward, but I also make a political cry, because, since we have lost so much time all folded with this theme and that it is urgent, like this is an instrument, it is not a law, because then the Law of Biodiversity will come and all folded, that all the folds remain generous, we present a few appearances, we present the papers, logically, relevant, but that we follow at all and, if possible, before the year is over, we have made this law, because the country deserves it, but, above all, the environment demands it. Since we have a right to an environment that is balanced and balanced, I will go to the end, time is urgent... but we have a right to that and we have a right to many more things, because that also includes a right to a healthy justice, to a healthy democracy and, since we have a right to a healthy environment, we also need a democratic environment and, today, we are here, approving this, but today, in the late days, we will also find some Viladecans, supporting Adrian and Tamara. To finish, and to return to the subject, and even though I am sober minutes, to some who are in public I suppose they have to sound a few days that were made to Girona, to the University of Girona, who were talking about the future law of biodiversity of natural heritage, of 2005, if I don't fail the memory, twenty years after the Law of Natural Spaces was approved. The decades have passed, we do not go forward, but they must also remember, therefore, that a few years ago, at the Palau de Pedralbes, the Natural Heritage Strategy and the biodiversity of Catalonia was presented; that it is a good document, which follows the pattern because, finally, this instrument comes, with both human and economic resources, the protection and, above all, the promotion and preservation of the natural values of this country. We have everything, we are not a tropical hotspot, we do not have extreme biodiversity, those who are biolegs and environments know it better, but we do have what we need to protect, which is what concerns us, which is this territory where we live, which some want it free, but I think that everyone in this room wants it much better and much more environmentally sustainable. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.153.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Narcis Clara has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.154.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, guests, from the outset express my conviction that we must be satisfied with this agreement of principles of four parliamentary groups that add up to two thirds of the hemisphere. However, the demand for a natural heritage agency is not of this kind; its creation is a historical claim of entities, administrations and organizations linked to the conservation of nature in Catalonia. In the parliamentary sphere, this compromise goes from a long way; to put a date of reference – and I am sure it is not the only one – two years ago and in a meeting of Councillor Rull, to whom I would like to greet, various parliamentary groups have found that it is necessary to face a structural deficit in biodiversity policies. It is not, therefore, a party bet, but a country bet. The connection between climate and biodiversity is unquestionable. Several scientific studies by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change confirm that changes in terrestrial and marine ecosystems have been observed in view of the climate changes that human activity has produced. The preservation and restoration of ecosystems is therefore a priority to protect the population from the harmful effects of this reality. The center of my exhibition will be a single idea: the need for the creation of this agency. And I will do so by highlighting four main aspects: the state of the question at international level, at local level, is to say, in Catalonia, the social implications and, finally, our model of natural heritage agency. What is the current global situation? The data provided for the Convention on the Biological Diversity of the United Nations show that 34,000 plant species and some 5,200 animals are in a difficult danger of extinction all over the planet. In Europe, 42 % of mammal species and 15 % of birds are threatened. And we could follow, but the ones I've presented to you are enough to give us an idea of the abst of the question. In this context, a number of documents have been awarded in the international arena that outline common policies and agreed strategies for a large set of countries: from the Convention on the Biological Diversity of the United Nations, the 2010 Aichi objectives and the 2020 European Union Biodiversity Strategy. These policies refer to the causes of biodiversity loss in order to define actions that safeguard and enhance it, to promote sustainability in all human activities, to promote the positive effects of biodiversity in human populations and to make it possible to achieve effective knowledge management. These objects represent reptiles that we cannot escape; according to our habitation, our salvation and our general well-being. The geographical situation of Catalonia makes it a country with an exceptional natural heritage, as has already been indicated, which includes a great biodiversity; there are more than four hundred species of vertebrates, two thousand invertebrates and more than four thousand higher plants. Compared to countries in our own geographical area, I would like to comment that for the Catalonian surface unit there are twelve times more inhabitants of Community interest than Spain, six times more than Italy, thirteen times more than France and fifteen times more than Germany. These facts – and here I agree with Mr Ferro – must not be interpreted as an exhibition of patriotic pride, years against, which implies a great political and social responsibility for their conservation. The last decades have been dedicated to protecting large extensions of the Catalan territory. At present, 32_percent of the territory is protected by the Spatial Area of Natural Interest. Some of these areas have been ordered and benefit from good management, but they need to improve the management of the whole joint, because Catalonia does not escape, as is natural, the general tendency of loss of biological diversity. Catalonia has also defined its own strategy, obviously in line with the international strategy, as it has to be. And the government approved on July of the year past the Natural Heritage Strategy and Biodiversity, which specifies six areas of action that I do not notice at this time, I believe, because they go from purely environmental aspects to much related, say, social aspects, and that they have given place to seven strategic objectives, with a view to 2030, thirty-five lines of action. As a result, Catalonia had a document with clearly defined and referenced objectives enabling it to steer government policy in the right direction. What are the implications of natural heritage, its degradation and conservation and improvement policies? I think they can be simplified into three axes: economics, health and knowledge; economy, health and knowledge. The approximately deu_mil_quilòmetres_protected squares bring more than 2,500_million euros of annual benefits in the form of ecosystem services, such as carbon fixation or contribution to the water cycle, which generate more or less than two times the euros that have been invested in it. Protection of nature is not a burden; on the contrary, it is an opportunity for better welfare and economic development. If we think in terms of health, the loss of biodiversity puts at risk the provision of ecosystem services that are basic to society's health and well-being. Thus, it causes the opportunities of interactions in nature to be reduced, which are related to our well-being. We need to get much more basic information, related to knowledge, that you consider much more links between biodiversity and health. In this way we will achieve a better and appropriate decision making. Recent studies have demonstrated the interdependencies between nature, biodiversity, climate change and health, as well as the multiple mutus benefits that promote nature conservation for the health and well-being of human beings. It is not by chance that various Catalan universities, official colleges and research centres collaborate in the elaboration of the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Strategy of Catalonia. In reality, it is the demonstration that the large-scale involvement of knowledge in the search for solutions is necessary. This is one of the challenges that the National Knowledge Society that the Government is taking on. And now I move to the quarter of the four that I had announced in a beginning. What model of defense agency? The creation of this agency will, together with the ACA and the ARC, constitute the triangle of media environmental agencies of Catalonia. Its activity must be that the protection of biodiversity is approached in a comprehensive and fully executive manner, following the model of Europe's leading countries. What characteristics, in this case, what advantages do we think will bring the creation of this agency? First, the main features of natural heritage management are biodiversity, diversity of protection figures and heterogeneity of systems and agents involved. As a result, you need to work in a complex environment that requires proper coordination and high execution capacity. The fact of being an independent entity with its own legal personality will hold it to a solid and stable temporal structure, with a durable and robust organizational chart, so that conservation policies remain coherent and sustained over time. Another of its main features must be its autonomy; this is absolutely essential to act with agility in decision making, concentration of resources and high response potential. The rigidness of the civil service regime does not guarantee a smooth and efficient management of human resources in certain complex areas, such as the one we are dealing with. The agency's structure must ensure that the management of its human resources is directed towards multidisciplinary, expert and sufficiency. Finally, the last and perhaps the most important: the financing. To the financing resources coming from the assumptions of the Generality, the agency will add those that are suitable for it, such as those that may come from the Natural Heritage Fund and other inputs derived from its activity. The aim is to approach the financing of the most advanced countries in the protection and management of natural heritage, given that until now the natural heritage policy has not had adequate financing. In summary, and summarizing the exposure, in the first place, we have an international framework that gives us a reference model in which the Government has adjusted the Catalan strategy from the reality of our natural heritage. Secondly, our model is based on knowledge, which I consider to be of fundamental importance, with the aim of protecting and improving our natural heritage, so that we get as much economic benefits as in health and social welfare. In the third place and later, the constitution of the Natural Heritage Agency is the tool, the solid, agile and efficient instrument that the Catalan society needs to achieve the objectives it claims. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.155.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. In the name, now, and to mark his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Francisco Javier Domínguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.156.0	First to greet the environmental sector that visits us and the department, and also a representative of the Colegio d'Enginyers Tecnics Agricoles i Forestals..., who are watching us live. We are faced with a proposal for a law tabled by four parliamentary groups that already comes from the last legislature. I remember well that it was presented after several meetings to try a parliamentary consensus, a consensus that did not occur in the territory; there was strong resistance from several sectors, especially the agrarian, forestry and technical part. This law was launched in a hurry, in the form of a proposal, because the end of the legislature was intended. And they were right in the hurry, because the debate, I remember very well that it took place on September 6th, that fateful day, I don't know what hours of the night – all very normal – ; between the misfortune of seeing how the Constitution and the Statute were intended to be annulled, this proposed law was debated to create an agency of natural heritage. In the midst of this total lack of respect for the institutions, the agency appears to us; come on, a priority for the Government. And for now, that's it. And now we stand in this legislature, in which we recover a text written in haste and without consensus, and re-present it as a proposal for law, without changing a coma. Is there an end to the legislature now too? But what happens to the government? You don't like to legislate? Why didn't you do this, for a bill, if you attach so much importance to this agency? It should be the usual way to legislate, the bill: that a law pass through all relevant reports and opinions. Why does this government not rule? If you are so clear that you are here to govern, you draw up bills with all the guarantees that a full process offers, legislating with all the rigour that this issue deserves. As to the need for this law. Our natural heritage has been valued over the centuries and will be more beautiful, it will be more ugly, it will be worse, it will be better, but it is our natural heritage, it is what we have, and it has great value. And it is unthinkable to deny that it is so without counting on the continued human action that has configured it. The flora, the fauna, the landscape, the forests, the crops, the watercourses, the swamps, the meadows, the extensive livestock, the fishing, the coast..., all our natural wealth is affected by the human exploitation of natural resources. But it is true that man's ability to alter the environment has grown exponentially in recent decades, and that is why it is essential to preserve this natural environment. Human activities must be sustainable, environmentally, socially and economically. And too often we forget about social and economic sustainability, because people live in the territory and these people have to earn a living. Farmers, farmers, pastoralists, forest managers..., they all manage the natural environment with activities that, first, improve biodiversity; secondly, they prevent forest fires, which is one of the main threats of our natural environment, and thirdly, they fix people in the territory, an issue we all agree that with depopulation it is a topic that needs to be addressed globally. All these activities that have always taken care of the space in which they live and work do not believe..., that is why I do not think that we should talk only about managing the protected natural spaces, but that our natural heritage also exists outside these spaces. Very powerful management policies and a strong government that really creates them are essential. As the explanatory statement itself says, there is a growing social demand that forces us to the Government and the whole parliamentary arc. And you can't pretend to fool anyone. One thing is the protection of natural heritage – which we have all talked about here about protecting what is necessary, with very powerful environmental policies – and another very different is creating an agency. But I wanted to talk a little bit about biodiversity. We're really losing diversity, and that's very true. And mainly one of the spaces where it is most being lost is in the agrarian habitats. I will give an example: the growth of the forest and the bush by the abandonment of less profitable fields of cultivation, the abandonment of the meadows by the decline of extensive livestock, the few open forests due to the lack of managed forests, all this is increasing the homogenization of our forests and is decreasing biodiversity. Why do I say this? Because nature protection is neither a minor nor an accessory policy, it affects a very important part of the territory and it is a problem for society as a whole. And what has happened to the management of the natural environment so far? Are we satisfied with what has been done so far? The answer is that no, obviously, all the groups before me have done some critical brushwork for what has been done so far. There has been very bad management and there have been many bandages. There's been a lot of organizational huddles and a lot of improvisation. The natural heritage policy in Catalonia has historically been underfunded, but that is not what I say, as the same explanatory statement says. And the terrible cuts that natural management has undergone do not help at all, but they do indicate a little the priority that governments have had towards these issues. In the last twenty-five or thirty years the Administration has not had the necessary integrity and continuity and teams have been divided, functions have been divided between different departments, they have rejoined, they have combined and recombined, they have changed priorities..., a terrible continuity, let's go. In addition, opportunities, knowledge, experience have been lost, and erratic policies have consumed many resources and energies. And worst of all: there is no logical or technical explanation that justifies these successive changes. It is clear that there must be stability in the environmental administration, it is clear that there is not a sufficient budget, but it is even more evident that natural heritage is not a priority of this Government or of the previous ones. And without an analysis of why it's not being managed well, because it appears as a magic wand: we create an agency that will fix everything. And I wanted to resist using a word that they like very much, but I just can't: the agency is another chiringuito. And how could the creation of a natural heritage agency be justified? At the moment what we cannot do is justify the creation of an agency saying that the structure of the Administration is deficient. We cannot compare what we have with what we will have, because this law does not define the structure that this agency is going to have or how it will work. Nor can we say that environmental policies can be better financed or that new forms of financing can be opened, because neither does the law define this. And anyway, I'd like to know what kind of funding could be done with the agency that I couldn't do right now, with the current structure. Nor can we say that the agency will be more agile or more efficient. Whatever the department needs to do..., that it needed to do it more agilely can do it through a public enterprise, such as Catalan Forest, for example. Another argument: perhaps the agency could have more capacity to intervene in emergencies, such as biological invasions. Well, as far as I'm concerned, no. Currently, the Administration actually has resources and can hire emergency processing services that could supply exactly the same as a future agency could do. Nor do I see how the agency could improve on this issue of invasive species. Finally, there is no technical or economic justification, adds an unnecessary administrative level, does not simplify or facilitate the life of the administered, maintains the separation of the administration responsible for the management of the environment, which is Agriculture, and conservation, which is Environment. The Environmental Administration between protected and unprotected spaces is kept unfolded, and I will set an example for everyone to understand. We have deer, wild boars or rabbits that depend on agriculture, because they can be hunted. And we have bears, vultures and wolves that depend on the environment. But everyone shares the same space – the same – and it's all wildlife. Another example: extensive livestock farming, as I said before, and mountain meadows favour greater biodiversity, but they are managed from Agriculture. The same space with two different objectives: agricultural production and environmental preservation. With the agency it is possible that we collaborate in hindering the traditional management of the spaces that we want to protect, like meadows, drought crops or managed forests, precisely because shepherds, payees, forest managers are in retreat. And it is that for a long time there has been a gap between producers, permanently accused of looking only at economic benefit, and conservationists, accused of urbanites and strangers to the environment. This breach must go away and the agency won't help. In addition, this agency, as conceived, does not have the support of a significant part of the agents. Totally, we're still talking about chiringuitos, a chiringuito that won't solve any problems. This law does not define how the agency is going to be, nor its structure nor its budget, nothing. Well, it's not true, it defines the executive structure, with thirty people, of whom only seven represent the primary sector, among the Department of Agriculture, agricultural unions and forest owners. What he does explain is that officials will have three months to decide whether to stay at the agency as a worker or go to another department if they want to retain their status as civil servants, a very unfair and, above all, unnecessary uncertainty. I..., what I'd like to know is what the agency can do that can't do anymore, now, the department or any of the existing public enterprises. And for my part, I just end up saying that we should unify all the planning and management of the territory into one department, so that we can protect the natural heritage...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.157.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.158.0	...with comprehensive and continuous environmental policies. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.159.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Congresswoman Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.160.0	Well, today, the debate begins for the creation of the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Agency. In biodiversity conservation and protection policies, dueres have been pending for a long time. Even having the Law of Natural Spaces, which we remember is from the year 1985, until now it has been impossible to renew and update it, and it seems that this Government also renounces the requested processing of the Law of Biodiversity and Natural Heritage. This agency that you want to create must become a public body that must be in the service of management, conservation and protection of natural heritage. And we want to remember that we did not participate in the signature precisely to denounce this competition ball, this fight of advice and interest, the pressures of the forest lobby, this intention to decapitate a project ambitions. What always happens: that in the accounts of putting in the center the interests of the community and the protection of the natural resources, the interests of the lobby of power are put in the center and this persecution of the unabated benefit that has some very concrete consequences. We want this agency to be a modern tool, an agile and effective tool that allows us to pool biodiversity policies and manage them with the competition, with citizenship and with the knowledge of all actors. But for us, the form of this agency, its legal regime, and that this agency is managed by a public and not private legal regime is very important, because we already know that the private legal regime is always in line with private interests and not with public interests. We understand that this agency should be an autonomous body and not a public enterprise under private law; an autonomous body under public law management, with subsequent control and anticipating expenditure, so that we know exactly where public money goes and what it is spent on. Any new entity we understand to be articulating on the basis of clear principles of publicity, transparency, austerity, which do not suppose to inflate the higher ranks. For another band, we will also present questions related to the rights of workers, because we understand that the staff of this agency must be a staff working or working on the same terms and conditions as those established for the staff of the Administration, the Generality, and in accordance with applicable legislation. We also see positive aspects in this agency, in this process. We believe that they are important and that they are positive, precisely, this decentralized structure and participation in decentralised participatory bodies. And let's hope that at last these organs are translated into real organs of effective participation and not these participations, that sometimes they hide from..., and that in reality they are informational processes. We hope that the final version of this agency is equipped with the necessary skills and economic resources, as foreseen in the Natural Heritage Fund, to effectively deploy its objectives and that it can move in its scope of action in its totality. And let's hope that the partisan interests, and above all at these moments of electoral processes, do not hinder processing or final approval, since nature, we know, has neither seen nor voted, but it needs an organism that takes care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.161.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mrs Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.162.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, well, the natural heritage is clearly a distinction of the same diversity of Catalonia, it is a strategic action, obviously, that needs to be protected and managed properly, but we must bear in mind that the complexity of managing this reality, the complexity of managing in certain territories this rich environment that is intended to protect and more compatible with the territory's own physiology is complicated. The tools that are close and that can allow this coexistence must be designed. And it seems that you – this is the same criticism we've made of them every time they've brought this law of creation of the agency – rules of the landscape to the territory. And it's very important that you do it with collaboration, with consent, with the participation of the territory, because, if you don't, it won't be a useful star, but I would say that an oximoron because the people of the territory are keeping living in the territory and a star that doesn't help this protection that you supposedly want to achieve. Mirin, the proposal of this agency, of creating the agency, is exactly identical..., identical in text, in form, articulated – I say yes – than that of the last legislature. And I believe that, although you do not govern, you have the opportunity, after two years, to try to improve those aspects that have already been denounced by the territories. I insist a lot, because, in the end, if you pursue an objective, but you carry, let's say, diversity, economic activity and even the whole viability of the project to the territory, it does not serve us as nothing. It seems that the errors are maintained, because it is exactly identical. And I ask myself, haven't you taken advantage of this time to talk to the College of Engineers? Didn't they take advantage of this moment to talk to the directors of the natural parks? Why didn't they do it to talk to the Sant Isidre Agricultural Institute, for example, or even the whole Forest Consortium? I think it would have been absolutely necessary because it worked. That said, if we look at why this agency is, we also need to look at whether it is complete with a few minimum standards of political and legislative responsibility. What does that mean? That if it's complete a few minutes, we'll hear that the agency could be useful and that in terms of weight it could improve some of the deficiencies that we've found, but it costs us. First, do you cover a legal void? We consider that no, there is no legal void to cover, and that does not mean that there is no environmental protection, but there is no legal void. In fact, there is a regulatory dispersion that makes it very difficult for the territory to comply with these objectives: Water Law of 2001, Forest Law of 2003, Landscape Law of 2005, Natural Heritage Law of 2007, Decree of the non-urbanizable soil of 2010. It's a marasm, a Norman marasm that doesn't help. Millor efficiency, coordinate policies? We don't think so. We believe that it is not because it hinders economic activity, agricultural activity, or even other activities that are carried to the territory. Why? Because it superimposes competitions, because it is realized duplicates, because it is not justified, we believe, neither technically nor economically. Abstaining all the protection of the environment, what would be the third reflection? Home, from the reading of the project to a large extent that only refers to the forest area. And what do you think of the eagles? I from the seashore? Is it not necessary to protect the environment in these terms? That's it; here we find ourselves, it's not effective. If we add the limitations to the owners, the creation of new taxes, taxes, which make it difficult, that add more fiscal pressure to the people who are hoping to keep to the territory and make it viable, to make their life form also a wealth for everyone, we find that this Catalan Natural Heritage Agency will have the same success as the Catalan Water Agency. Despite this, as we have seen before in the last parliamentary term that passed, we have come to the decision to try to improve, to examine and to fix everything that you now contain with this bill, and that we believe it will do evil in the territory. All the collateral damage that this proposal brings to you, we will strive to fix it, because, as has been said here, we have to say things, and what is to be said is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.163.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.164.0	...if we want to protect the environment for all citizens, we must also count on the territory.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.165.0	Thank you very much. The debate is over, and as no papers have been presented to the whole, this initiative can continue its processing. We now suspend the session until three-quarters of the late four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.166.0	Well, good afternoon, let's resume the session. Before, let me guess that we have some technical problems with the computer system and, therefore, some microphones, but also the time of interventions from the Faristol, they won't be able to see them at the moment. We try to restart the system as quickly as possible. Therefore, they ask for patience, for all the Members and Members, until these dysfunctions are resolved – I'm sure they will be very quick –. [[Proposal for a law on measures for the prevention and treatment of child abuse (debate of totality)]] [[202-00037/12]] Let us resume the agenda with the agenda item set, which is the totality debate on the proposed law on measures for the prevention and treatment of child abuse. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the first word is the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which made the proposal. I, therefore, to defend the legislative initiative has the word of the deputy Inés Arrimadas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.167.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish today we didn't have to be here and I wish today we didn't have to talk about what we're going to talk about; but it's really a reality in Catalonia that there's child abuse, there's sexual abuse of minors and there's harassment and cyberbullying of minors. The problems are very real and therefore we need realistic solutions. We already talked about them at the Children's Plenary, the Plenary that already asked Ciutadans, because, among other problems, these also worry us; among other problems that affect children, minors and adolescents in Catalonia, these, these problems of child abuse, sexual abuse of minors and, of course, bullying at school, worry us. This Government has a moral obligation to act against this reality. We introduced this law two years ago – two years ago. Two years ago – two – the independenceist groups, with the invaluable help of Podemos and the Socialist Party, blocked this law, prevented it from simply being processed, prevented us from simply opening the debate on these issues. And it's a shame; it's a pity, because two years – two – have been lost to talk about a very important topic in Catalonia. And the data is creepy. I want, therefore, to thank different entities that are giving their faces, they are bringing this reality to light, they are making reports and they are giving voice to those who have no voice. Some accompany us from the public, and others are sure to be following us from our homes. But, for example, Save the Children, who has made many reports in this regard, sheds chilling data. In Catalonia, 17_per_cent of Catalans have been sexually abused when they were minors. One of the victims reporting sexual abuse in Catalonia today is a minor. Cases of child abuse increase, sometimes in the family sphere, sometimes in the non-family sphere. There are also some specific reports of a reality that concerns many parents in this country, which is harassment, bullying, or cyberbullying. This is the reality that many schools have, not only in Catalonia, but in the rest of Spain. But it is also that many other reports warn that attacks on the LGBTI collective of young people have increased. Male assaults have also increased among minors; there is a report that says that the increase in male assaults among minors reaches 45_per_cent, in only two years, in Catalonia. And of course we also want to focus on the fact that children with special needs are often more vulnerable, if any, to sexual abuse, abuse or harassment and cyberbullying. These data may seem very cold, because they do not cease to be percentages, increments or numbers of people, but behind these data there are names and surnames; there are children, there are girls, there are families who suffer. And behind these cases there is fear, there is impotence, there is silence, there is sometimes shame of the minors themselves – of course it should not be so, but there is – there is sadness and, in too many cases, trauma forever. And in the face of this fear, in the face of this loneliness, in the face of this silence, the public administration has an obligation to give light, tranquillity and protection, not only to minors, but to their families. We have also known concrete cases that have broken all of our souls, no doubt. The case of the ill-treated baby and finally murdered by his own family in Pineda, when they had visited different hospitals and his CAP already with signs of ill-treatment, has no doubt broken the soul, I am convinced that of all Catalans. Also other cases such as Arancha's suicide, a 16-year-old girl, who ended up committing suicide, a girl with a disability, because she no longer endured the harassment and abuse she suffered. This, unfortunately, is not only a disgrace for the people who suffer it, it is not only a trauma, sometimes forever, for those people, but these issues are a concern of many families. There are many parents in Catalonia and the rest of Spain who hope that their children, throughout their lives, childhood and adolescence, will never have to face these cases. True, there have been brave, courageous people who have given their voice, some have even denounced that they suffered sexual abuse or abuse decades later. From here I want to thank the courage, the courage of those people who have put a voice to those who have never had a voice. But we are not only talking about cases of the past; we are talking about cases, no doubt, of the present. And that's why the Government of the Generalitat can't look elsewhere. I do not say that these issues are easy to solve, we are very aware of the complex reality behind each of these cases. But, look, according to Save the Children, the main problem of young people and minors who have suffered sexual abuse in Catalonia is the uncoordination of the various departments of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Here you can't put any excuses, you can't look elsewhere, you can't say no one else is guilty. I'm not saying it's easy, but what I'm plainly saying is that you haven't done what you had to do and what you could to solve and avoid these kinds of cases in Catalonia. And I remind you again that we two years ago – two – introduced this same law, which was definitely blocked by Junts per Catalunya, the PSC and Podemos. A lot of work could have been done in two years, a lot could have been improved in two years. I wonder how many cases we could not have avoided if the coordination mechanisms had been improved two years ago – two years ago. How many calvary in the recurring statements of many sexually abused minors could not have been avoided by introducing a system that works, which we will now talk about, so that there is a preconstructed evidence, a single statement – of course, with judicial supervision – of these minors? Since then, for two years – two – you have made many announcements, which coincide casually with the moments when this party or other parties bring some initiative to the chamber. I remember two years ago – two years ago – when we introduced this law, you announced a new protocol in education. That was absolutely nothing. Why? Because it was an announcement that intended to cover the shame of the blockade of this law in the Parliament of Catalonia. Now I've seen that yesterday – you, as always, coinciding with our laws – have also taken out the announcement of another protocol. Well, we're tired of empty ads, and I think the parents in Catalonia don't want empty ads, but they want realities. And the only way to force you to do things is for it to be legislated in this Parliament, because that does force you as a government. They don't force ads, they force laws. And that's why we want this law to be processed, improved with the input of the groups and passed. Because, look, since 2010 you have been without deploying the Children's Act, a consensus law, which was worked on in this Parliament, which was a good law, which brought experts, which brought entities, which was therefore a certain consensus for the protection of children. But you have had other priorities. Since 2010, nine years – nine years – to develop a children's law; they have not wanted it. But, for me, I think the most scandalous case, honestly I tell you, is the case of the famous RUMI, of the Single Registry of Child Abuse: you announced it in 2007, it is twelve years – twelve – to make a single register. And I will not demagogy – I will not demagogy – but there are some cases, honestly, where this record would have avoided many problems, if not something else. Because there have been cases of minors who have gone to different hospitals, to different doctors, to different CAPs, and as recognized by the Health Department itself, there is no network work against child abuse. I insist on the idea that it is not easy to solve, I do not come here to give simple solutions to complex problems, but they will have to recognize me and I hope from the Government or from the parliamentary groups that support the Government some self-criticism. Because since 2007, not making a single record of child abuse is a court of custody, it has no explanation at all. There is no need for large budget items or anything like that. Just political will. In fact, we in 2017, two years ago – two – asked his government what was going on with the RUMI, which had been ten years late. And you answered us that it would soon be set in motion; of that two years ago – two. When we presented our law, they said they were going to do things; they have done nothing. What I honestly believe is that it is time to put content to things, it is time to put on the table concrete improvements, that can avoid some cases, that can be the hope of many people. Look, the law has a basic content, in which we have not invented anything, we have simply listened to entities and families who know most about this. And the content of this law is based on different pillars, but above all it is based on defending the best interests of the child, who, as you know, is a basic good of our society and our legal system. This law envisages measures to improve the interdepartmental coordination of the Government of the Generalitat, which is, according to Save the Children, the main problem facing people who have been victims of sexual abuse. We want to improve coordination between the departments that you carry, among you: Department of Health, Department of Interior, Department of Education and Department of Social Affairs. We also want to give more tools to professionals so that they can detect these problems early. We want to help professionals in fields such as education or health with specific tools and training. We want to launch the RUMI, we want to launch the Single Register of Child Abuse, a basic tool for coordination and early detection of these cases. We also want to incorporate in Catalonia a working method, a method of success, which is the Barnahus method. It is a method that has been established in Iceland since 1998 with excellent results, but we already have many other countries that have incorporated it, which are Sweden, Norway or Denmark. This system is a comprehensive, care-oriented system specialized in the prevention and care of ill-treatment. For us it is essential that there be care centres, and this is going to be very important for the declaration of minors. You know, I suppose, that many of the children and adolescents who have been victims of sexual abuse are faced with procedural calvary. Sometimes they have to testify seven and eight times about facts. What does that usually lead to? For some contradictions can be identified between these seven or eight statements, which often means that aggressors cannot be convicted because the evidence is not considered valid. What would be achieved by this? Let it be declared once, that minors have all the psychological assistance in one centre and with a member of the judiciary, of course, to ensure that this can be a test subject to trial and that minors and children are not subjected to seven and eight times a declaration, because that is cancelling the evidence many times and preventing the perpetrators from being convicted. We want experts, entities, families and victims to come to Parliament to improve this law. This law is based on recommendations from expert and entity reports, but we do not want it to be adopted as it is. We want it to be improved with the input of the experts and the various parliamentary groups. I am also going to go ahead with some of the questions that you will raise: "No, this has to be regulated in Madrid." I imagine them now, the members of the government groups. Things must also be done in the Congress of Deputies, we can also talk about how we increase the time limits for prescribing offences, which is the Criminal Code and penal regulations, I think. And we're wearing it on the election program. I think there are some political formations that do not carry any of this on the electoral agenda. We carry it on the national electoral programme – let's take the national one. We have a comprehensive law to eradicate violence against children at the national level as well, yes. We want to coordinate child protection mechanisms among the different autonomous communities, yes. We want to address the debate of delaying the prescription of certain offences, such as sexual assault and abuse of minors, yes. And we'll do that in Congress as well. I hope that is not anyone's excuse to stop working here when the Generalitat de Catalunya has competence in key areas for this, such as education, such as health, such as the interior or even justice. We work here and there. It seems to me that the parliamentary groups supporting the Government, at the last moment, have withdrawn their amendment in its entirety. I think that's the way it is. They waited until the last moment, because they had to know if the CUP was going to support our law and when they found out that the CUP is going to abstain and that the law is going to deal with it as well, they have decided not to block it. To me, the reasons you have, the truth is that they give me the same, I think it is a victory of the whole Catalan society that you do not again block a law of a subject that unites us, of a subject that we share, of an absolutely transversal concern in all Catalan society. That is why we are going to start very eagerly the processing of this law, I hope that you will not block it in parliamentary processing, because we want the families in Catalonia to change the concern for tranquility, and the victims to change the fear for security. I hope that where there is resignation today we can put hope and I hope that while some people said that nothing could be done in Catalonia they recognize that in Catalonia we can also do much to protect minors. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.168.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And thanks for the collaboration, excuse the inconveniences of this late. Next, I am telling you... it has been said that the totality papers have been withdrawn, so we will now proceed directly to the positions of the different parliamentary groups and first of all there is the word, on behalf of the Socialist and Unites for Progress Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beatriz Silva. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.169.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. If we listen to the studies, twenty-seven of the 135 Members of Parliament who are part of this Parliament suffered sexual abuse at some point in their childhood. Most of them probably never reported it, and if they reported it, they never came to a trial or there was a conviction for the offender. The abuse was buried in silence and impunity. This percentage would be much larger if we added other types of violence, such as physical, psychological, punishment, harassment or neglect. Because, unlike gender-based violence, which has become a social concern, which drives demonstrations and is increasingly present in our political agenda, society still does not assume the magnitude of violence against children. "If we keep the abuses secret, it will continue to happen," said Miguel Ángel Hurtado, "to explain why, after decades of silence, he decided to make public the abuses he had suffered as a child. He explained this in the documentary series Exam de Conscience, by director Albert Solé, where he and other victims told their stories in front of a camera. It was the first time that a production addressed in depth the abuses in institutions of the Church and did so after the research work of The Journal of Catalonia on the Maristas case. These journalistic works have served as a revulsion to find that sexual abuse against children is neither punctual nor isolated, that we see only a small part of a problem that affects thousands of people who have never dared to confess. They are research work that deepens the abuses in educational and leisure spaces, but not that of people who suffer sexual violence during their childhood within the family environment and who are the vast majority: 80_per_cent of the total. We're not talking enough about these victims, they're not on headlines every day. In this context, the Citizens' Group brings us today a proposal that talks about child abuse and proposes the drafting of a specific law for Catalonia. From my parliamentary group we believe that it is a text that does not have the requirements that a project should have that aims to address such a complex and ambitious issue as addressing violence against children. At the outset, because it is a proposal that is not endorsed and worked with professionals, specialists or entities dedicated to the care and defence of children's rights, which we believe should have been consulted when drafting such a text. If there are entities that have been worked with, I would like to mention what they are. Nor has it been agreed with the other parliamentary groups, which we have learned of the existence of this bill at the time it was registered. It has also been drafted without taking into account the existence of the preliminary draft Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence, which was adopted last December by the Council of Ministers and which does contain all the elements that this proposal ignores. It is a bill that is the result of ten years of work in which experts from universities, researchers, international specialists, child care entities have participated and which is supported by many collaborating organizations, including Save the Children and UNICEF. It is an organic law that will become a normative framework for all this problem and that unlike this proposal has been worked with the other groups of Congress. As a result of this previous work, it is possible that it will come into force before the end of 2019, so that it will overlap with the proposal presented today by the Citizens' Group, which would also need regulatory development due to its own characteristics. The Act on the Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence is a proposal that speaks of "violence, not maltreatment, as the text of Citizens does, because this is the concept assumed internationally; it is the one that uses the United Nations because it is much broader. It is a law that creates for the first time a comprehensive protection framework for all children and adolescents. It reinforces the obligation to report abuses, because not doing so will entail consequences, which will prevent, for example, schools from circumventing their obligation to report, as has happened with the Maristas case. It is a rule that will also amend the Criminal Code so that these offences will be prescribed in a much longer period of time, because one of the major legal impediments is that when victims finally decide to report, the offence has been prescribed. Any proposal brought to this Parliament should have taken into account the legal and regulatory change that this law will mean, especially because in Catalonia we still do not resolve the deficits that our model of attention has to do with the violence suffered by children. In 2017, this Parliament has already discussed this issue and the shortcomings of the model of care and detection of sexual abuse of minors in Catalonia. The then Health Advisor undertook to address a profound change. We know that the Government is working on a pilot project to implement in Catalonia the model of the Barnahus or cases d'infant, because they are called « Barnahus [[the speaker highlights the pronunciation with aspirated]] Mrs. Arrimadas, perhaps you should have been well informed before explaining and talking about the model. It is a model where forensic specialists, health professionals, justice and social services professionals are coordinated, capable of making an effective diagnosis and ensuring treatment and recovery. We believe that we should be working on this, on the reform of the model, which should be done in a consensual manner and with the cooperation of all parliamentary groups. Yesterday, the Committee on Children unanimously adopted a motion for a resolution tabled by my group on this subject. We should also be working on the Children's Act, which contains many tools to advance the effective protection of our children and has been waiting for ten years. There are many things to do that are urgent and priority. However, we also believe that the debate cannot be constrained, because something we are doing wrong if one_of_five boys and girls is the victim of sexual abuse and our statistics do not reflect a 2_per_cent, because we are doing very little to address other violence, such as cyberbullying, neglect or gender-based violence among adolescents. The Socialists i Units per Avançar Parliamentary Group will participate in the processing of this proposal and will try to ensure that the text that comes forward can be a positive complement to the Act on Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence, which we hope can be implemented in Congress as soon as possible thanks to the support also of the political formations that are present here. Because we need this issue to become a political priority for all administrations. As the victims who explain their stories pose, it is time for us to look in the mirror and do a conscience test, and to do so responsibly. Because the approach to sexual violence in childhood cannot be used to draw political revenue or to get easy headlines. And the Members of this Parliament should commit us not to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.170.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.171.0	Thank you, President. Violence that plagues the lives of children and children in our country is very harsh. Some of them steal their childhood, for some purposes and all their lives, for others it is an irreparable emotional damage to the rest of their projection, their life, their vital project. The object of public power, obviously, cannot be other than to eradicate – to eradicate – violence, all rapes, and to make a happy childhood possible. It should be the object of any of the issues that we are dealing with infancy. The data show that we are not doing well, we are not doing well: the protection system is failing, the prevention and awareness of society still has a lot of ground to run, we have a cultural change that stigmatizes the gain and not the victims, that empowers childhood, that develops models of child and positive parenting. And, according to the general data we have, officers, we are making it fatal, when in the pool of victims of crime, at least half, or almost half are underage. We know that the phenomenon of sexual rape in childhood is also a great unknown, it is silent, it is invisible. We have not spoken in the last two plenarys from an inquiry and a motion from my parliamentary group: the vast majority of sexual assaults or abuse are totally invisible, and, from the very little we know, we know that one of the five minors, of every five children, has suffered a sexual abuse in any of their typologies. Moreover, the crimes suffered by infants and adolescents are heavier and more violent, and the consequences of these rapes produce trauma damage, damage that can last throughout life, damage that causes problems, then, that also condition their adult life. So we have a lot of running to do. Legal order, our laws, also have a lot of recourse to do to protect children's rights and to age for their protection. The United Nations, in the periodic review of the Committee on the Rights of the Child and of the Child, has recommended on more than one occasion to the Spanish State – to the whole Spanish State, to all the legislatures of the Spanish State – that we expedite the adoption of legislation that guarantees the full protection of children from violence and does not ensure its application to all levels. Therefore, they also touch the crest in the Parliament of Catalonia: we have to legislate to guarantee the rights of our childhood better. Violence against children and children is the worst manifestation that can be given to our society, a problem that we cannot tolerate; I understand that we all share it, but obviously we must do more to eradicate it. We're late to do it. The context of political volatility, misgovernance, the inopérance of legislative powers, the paying of victims, the paying of childhood and adolescence. And, therefore, yes, from Catalonia to Comú We may believe that we need to make a law from the Parliament of Catalonia on this subject. Is this the law that Ciutadans proposed to us? No – no. For two basic reasons. One: we have a law that is aligned with what must be a future state organic law that fights for the comprehensive protection of all childhood against these rapes. It is a text that already exists, it is a text that carries years working with universities, with experts and experts, with the third sector, also with the rest of the field of the state political arc. The legislature's over, we're at an impasse in the Congress of Deputies, and this organic law that has to protect children from rape is now in a few limbs. This law of the City that they present us today in Parliament did not align itself with the text that we all already know, we all know, of this state organic law, of all the potentialities that this state organic law will allow us to the Catalan Administration, in the deployment of its powers, from the standard mark that we have with this state organic law. The other element for which we believe that the law of the City is not what we believe: it is insufficient, it is inconcrete, it is inconcrete and, in fact, we believe that it is little known of the reality that exists. I don't know if they've talked to the sector to do it. To begin with, from the title: they conjugate rape with maltreatment, from the title and the motius exposition. Are we talking about rapes or are we talking about abuse? I believe that today, with international conventions like that of children's rights, we should not be confounding these terms; in fact, international convention of children's rights that do not even mention the presentation of reasons for this law. It is not useful, the text they present to us, to deploy an authentic network of childcare services that has suffered or suffered rapes or to improve the current system of child protection in Catalonia, which is clearly necessary to improve. Nor is it useful to intervene in the field of prevention that you present us with text. The need for a law of this type is not only to create the children's cases, or a protocol in the exclusively educational sphere, or the unique register, which are the three only proposals that you deploy in the law. That's not just what we need. In fact, these three themes that I have mentioned, would not require a new law; only to deploy absolutely the LDOIA, which already allows us to put these three elements in the march. We must respond to a much more demanding challenge: we must give real compliment to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, in order to take all legislative, administrative, social and educational measures – all – appropriate to protect children from all forms – in all forms – of harm or physical or mental abuse, neglect or neglect, abuse or exploitation, including sexual abuse. This is the definition of the rapes we're supposed to be legislating about. Your law isn't about that – it isn't about that. We need the law that is being done in Catalonia to move everything that the Committee on the Rights of the Child establishes as steps to deepen in the right unless it is objected in any form of violence. We need an ambitious law that pursues the objective of eradicating rapes into childhood and adolescence; therefore, it also attacks the real causes of these rapes against childhood. And we have a law that addresses in depth the system of child protection that we have in Catalonia. There have been various proposals from my parliamentary group, including others, and all of its own, in this House, in the Committee on Children, much more demanding and much clearer in the system of child protection, which you do not then pass on to this law. This, therefore, is not the law that addresses all these challenges, all this complexity. In fact, I think that even all the motion that they put forward and that was approved in this plenary last week, which introduced our parliamentary group, was already more complete in which we proposed than the one who proposed his bill; and it was a motion. But we share it: we can't wait for this government that doesn't rule to make a bill that doesn't even have on its political agenda. As we in Catalonia legislate on this subject, because it is necessary for society, it is necessary for the protection of children's rights, but we are more obliged and required by the international authorities to defend children's rights. And it is clear that this government does not intend, on its agenda, to legislate with respect. In fact, the parliamentary groups that support this Government, in the motion of my parliamentary group in the past plenary, have also abstained in the need for an organic state law on this issue to be approached urgently. Therefore, we do not know if they will help, they will work together to ensure that this state law exists as a matter of urgency, given the view that they voted for last week in our House. That is why we did not share the message to the totality, which they finally withdrew, that they had presented the republicans and Juntes for Catalonia. We would like to make it easier for the City Law proposal to serve as a starting point from the beginning of the full debate of all that we need, from the beginning to a demanding regulation and courage over all that we need, and in parallel – and so we do and so we will, and so we also bring it to our program, Mrs. Arrimadas – to be demanding at the Congress because the state organic law that precisely touches the Penal Code is being dealt with quickly because it is also resolving this issue. Yes, we are bringing to our electoral program the state law against rape. We will put all our compromise and all our efforts in place because, despite the fact that the starting text is insufficient and disappointing, we are comparing all this expertise that exists in Catalonia, which we believe has not been listened to so far by the proposing group, in relation to the rights of the child and that from these contributions we end up making the law that allows us to say with pride that we in Catalonia have all the tools to guarantee a happy and free childhood of rapes to the children of Catalonia, of our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.172.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of the Deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese. [[Pause.]] In any case, you can see that the system is already working properly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.173.0	Good afternoon. Violence against infants should be one of the themes to which this Parliament should devote more time; in fact, not so much rape against infants and adolescents or adolescents, but those structural elements that are the determining causes of this violence. We would like it or have liked it that at the presentation of reasons for this proposition of law spoken of, of this; we did not find that it is analytics of which are the elements that cause the high levels of violence against children and adolescents. And for us this is not a purely analytical issue; it is basically a question of real preventive policy, real preventive policy which means to remove the meaning of capitalism as a malalta society, but that on this path, which seems to be not up to today's day, to end with capitalism also means to identify the class elements and the economic elements that generate the most vulnerability and the double, triple or quadruple vulnerabilities: we are talking about the double vulnerability for the fact of being a woman, or also the condition of a migrant, or also for the fact of being a disabled. We want to thank the group proposing, to Citizens, and to give it half way between recognition and irony, which brought us to this Parliament a Catalan law of reference at the same time – and referring to four_months back – in which the Spanish State was being processed an organic law, and therefore it seems to us whenever, more than this group disconnected from the political intervention in the Spanish State, so that we are seeking interest also in what happens in relation to our Germans and our Germans from the Spanish State or from the French State. And let's take a step between irony and recognition because what gives us the feeling is that this law proposal is a replica, with an autonomous taranna, of what may have been the Organic Law for the Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence, which was being processed a few months ago in the Spanish State. But, of course, the big problem is that when you replicate an organic law from a state to a political subject like ours, which has no expression of sovereignty, it's strange. It is very strange, and even so we are left with the same definition of the object of the law's proposal: it speaks to us of "acting towards preventing child abuse, and it generates certain doubts, even so – and there has already been reference in some intervention before – therefore, the terminology that is used. We do not think that this is wrong, that of child abuse, but there are other moments of the norm in which it is not about child abuse, but about child abuse. And, therefore, it would be important for us to give a content that is clearly about violence and is clearly about "child and adolescent", this thick one that is not well the reference of minors that sometimes appears in the norm. We also refer to the days when you speak of care and non-residential centres. Maybe it's different, maybe it's not the same, maybe they want to tell us something else... it'll be one of the questions we'll see in the normal process. Also, in relation to what the structure is, so look, it gave us the feeling that it was half way between a directive of the European Union and a law of bases, for the same structure of the norm and for the same content: general principles, for one band, and regulation exist, for another band, and a few new subjective rights, which is where it generates for a right and guarantee band or which should generate rights and guarantees for the child. We see, as in the new content, "the designation of a professional, "the characteristics of the forensic interview, "the unique register and special protection of minors with special educational needs. On these four questions, which are the nine, we would make two references to take into account. The first one, the tutor's: five students; they have to tell us how and in what way, if it doesn't assume more burden, because we don't see it in the norm. And the second, which also refers to the single register: it generates many doubts that with regard to the index can also constitute elements of the register. And two technical questions. We assume that when you speak of particular accusation, you mean character – you don't exactly say character. And that when they refer to Article 23 we do not agree that there may be a conflict of interest, because whoever collaborates with someone who has obviously attacked is a criminal, and therefore it would not be well confused with interests or conflict of interest, but simply that there is someone from the direction of some centre who can absolutely become a criminal. And finally, what is essential for us in relation to violence against children and adolescents, and what we have not found in this proposal for law, and we hope that in the appeal we will find it: resources, which is funding; model, how it is managed all this, with a public 100_per_cent model or with a private management model, which seems to be what you are already advancing, and analysis, class analysis, feminist analysis, and what we need to have with a special detention also when it comes to minors, which is the effect or the migration cause and disability element.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.174.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mrs Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.175.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., to see, protecting the most vulnerable I think it is the duty of all public authorities, and indeed minors are the most vulnerable, but, to do so, I think we have to be delicate, we have to be serious and we have to put human and technical quality at the service of this, of society, making laws that are useful, coordinating and implementing policies, preventing, improving detection systems, trying so that the abuser cannot execute the troupe that means abusing a child, right? In this way, only in this way, from that human quality, technical, from the seriousness, from the tranquility that the electoral need does not push and the problem is pressing, can we solve this problem that we have as a society. And that's what will make families overcome not only the bad drinking and the grief of having suffered such a situation in children, but also their families..., and the power to lead the judicial path, but especially the most important, which is the psychological and the human..., and little by little to get out of the tunnel. We were talking last week about what it means for a child to suffer such a situation, but also what it means for his family, right? And we were talking about the silence, the pain, the restitution, the emotional and intellectual and psychological reintegration of these children. And we were talking that it wasn't necessary just to talk about this situation of ill-treatment in the educational sphere, because it was very poor to do so. Because, isn't the abuse in the family the most painful for a child and his family, of the family he doesn't know..., who have met a uncle, a neighbor, in the family, abusing trust has committed such a trophies? This law doesn't have that. It is the first stumbling block that we face with this law: it speaks only of the educational sphere; the family member seems to be that it does not matter. But what about sexual exploitation? What about sexual exploitation? Look, look, I think it's important that we keep this in mind. Despite that, and despite meeting us with a second stumbling block, which is the reality that, indeed, yes, it is good that we work here, but we must have and we must try to ensure that all Spanish children, live where they live, have the same rights, the same tools, the same protection. And the national regulatory framework that was being worked on was good; it had consensus, it had more resources, more reports, more collaborating entities – it was true that it could not be closed. And it's okay that we keep working here. But I think it was much more advisable to focus from that point, because we are going to find ourselves in the process of this law with possible overlaps, with possible contradictions that are not going to benefit those families living in this situation. As we agree with the aim pursued, and the aim pursued is what it is, it is to protect minors, of course we will continue to work in an area of presentation to improve those shortcomings. And, of course, we did it here, we did it in the Congress of Deputies, when we ruled. Because, in the end, one of the protective measures was also the permanent reviewable prison, which applied precisely to minors who were victims of such ill-treatment and abuse, and which, by the way, some parties, especially the proposer, with his vote, urged the repeal of that permanent reviewable prison. In view of the fact that the proximity of electoral processes means that there is a lack of seriousness in the processing of certain proposals for legislation, I believe that fortunately, despite that, it is good that we take into account that this is a declaration of good intentions, that we can work in a coordinated way in the two institutions, at the national level and at the autonomic level, and that is why we will support this proposal for legislation, as well as we will continue to work since the Congress of Deputies so that in the end also a statute of protection for the victim helps and complements that national regulatory framework or that framework – if it comes out before – autonomic that could leave and give protection to those families. In the end, this is about, and you know, as proponents, too, not to prevent the debate. And, of course, we are not going to stop the debate. Our vote, of course – although we will not have to, because there is no amendment to the whole – is going to be ‘yes, because it is a vote in favour of abused children, fundamentally, nothing more and nothing less, and so much at the same time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.176.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of the deputy Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.177.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, President, Councillors, Councillors, the fact that you are accompanying us to the House, Members and Members. Today we find ourselves in front of the umpteenth proposal of aparador of Ciutadans' companies. And why am I saying that? So, once again, they are presenting us with a bill that shows that they are only looking for a headline, since, if we look at the text, it is clear that you have a profound lack of knowledge of the Catalan child protection system – my predecessors have also commented on it from other groups – and it must not be for the times that we have come to deal with this issue in this Parliament, when I remember that they have always obtained a calm, pedagogical and open debate on proposals. So – and forgive my boldness – this makes me think that maybe it's not unconsciousness, but bad faith. In any case, it's worrying. The result is that they present a law that is either well overtaken by the existing protocols, such as those signed this week by Councillor Vergés and Councillor El Homrani, in coordination with Councillor Buch and Councillor Capella, and also for the same law of rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence, or well transforming in a subtle way, but also perilous, the current system of protection, such as introducing the figure of the forensics into the value of abuse, thus obviating the great task of the thousands of professionals of social services, of health, of education, that already make this task. We consider that it is never necessary to give a deep reflection on the system of child protection, and that a stronger legislative framework – yes –, wider – would only be lacking – and deeper – why not? – but this is what in principle defines the preliminary draft law on comprehensive protection of children and adolescents from violence, which brings together the contributions of experiences, university work, third sector and civil society and experts, as well as at least nine years. And, in this Parliament, on repeated occasions, whether in this Chamber or in the Committee on Children, we have said this, on the part of this parliamentary group and for the Government itself: the Catalan protection system is good, but we want to reform, we want to update it, and we want to make it out of the hands of everyone, entities, professionals, you, members, Members, Members and Members. But you ignore all this and propose a law against child abuse. And that's a very attractive headline, I told you, especially in the electoral context like we are, but it's just a headline. The few novelties it brings carry the present system without an appreciation of this, without making proposals of better that would demonstrate a proactive attitude, determined to perfect the system of protection to childhood and adolescence. Indeed, I must ask you: have you read the Law of Rights and Opportunities for Childhood and Adolescence, really? I'll tell you one thing – it surprised us a lot –: how can it be that in making a law against child abuse I don't talk at any time about the rights that children and adolescents have. It is stated that we do not refer to ourselves as minors, as you do to this law. Nor has the trouble of making a minimum amount of respect come to pass. Believing in the attention to maltreatment of children and adolescents is believing in the rights of these children and adolescents to live free of violence, is believing in the right that they extract themselves with dignity and as subjects of rights, such as citizens and citizens, with fullness of rights. Not a single one mentioned this. Making a law that doesn't take into account this is not putting the infant and the teenager in the center. And, of course, they don't take into account the families – which my predecessors have also commented on – nor how the family is to be treated, where it is to be derived. In short, how can families of children and youths of abuse help. They want to make a law against child abuse and only propose a unified system of complaints, reproducing the same mistake that in the case of male violence: there are only those who are reported, the tip of the iceberg – and those who are not reported? –; a system on a forensics do the exploration by the hundreds of trained professionals, formats, abilities and with vocation to detect, prevent and act before child abuse that already work on this line. Are you giving it to the DGAIA social worker or the DGAIA lawyer or the hospital worker who is not doing her job? I think that among all of us, and the first government, we work with these professionals to improve their work, because we play to our children's welfare, but we don't forget that they're already doing it, because we run the risk of devaluing their professional pocket, and I don't think they deserve it. I repeat that what you present today is an unnecessary law, a law that has an obvious lack of concepts and matter. And to emphasize that a law that has the will to protect the childhood of violence should count on the consent of all parliamentary groups and above all of the actors in the sector, such as experts, academics, professionals and civil society. What is a pity, however, is that in the current electoral context the rest of the parties are not strong and help us to put an end to the processing of an initiative that has no meaning for a holder. It is a disappointment to see the matches acting in one way or another depending on the context, instead of being consistent with their values. I am convinced that our quest for total prosperity would be successful if we were not in an electoral context. In the face of unwillingness, we withdraw the item to the totality presented. Look, it's not that we're willing to paralyze this law proposal because yes, but that we think it starts with hard failings – hard failings – so, as a summary, we'd like to remember them – in some. Talk about protocols, but only in the educational sphere. Where's the family environment, how did the PP's company comment? Or the health areas, social services, interior, as well as others. They speak of formation, but they only include training for minors, teachers, professionals of salvation... but they are oblivious another time of families and professionals of social services, who are in the trench, on the first line, which also – I think – should be able to take them into account. Talk about abuse when it would be better to talk about violence – it's a much broader concept. And the subject of abuse in the field of sport or the internet does not give it importance, just as the state law provides for it. We cannot avoid these two points – sport and the internet – when every day we wake up with news that remind us that they also exist, that our childhood and adolescence is also the victim of this type of violence. From our position we do not, of course, share his proposal, the proposal for a law proposed by Ciutadans, but we are committed to working in the framework of the Commission for Children, which must be the Catalan strategy to protect the childhood of all forms of violence. And we also protect the childhood of the policy of headlines. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.178.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Imma Gallardo has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.179.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Councillors and Councillors, Members of Parliament and Members of the public who are with us today, would like to begin my speech today, recalling that today, April 10th, thirty-nine years ago, after forty years of dictatorship, the Parliament of Catalonia re-opens, and that Carme Forcadell, the 14th President, is unjustly continuing in pre-trial detention. [[Greetings.]] Today we are discussing a proposal for a law of measures for the prevention and treatment of child abuse presented to us by the Ciutadans Group. I'll be sorry, but the name doesn't sound like it. This is what Mrs Najat said: on this occasion her proposal seems to be based on a certain lack of awareness of our system of protection of children, and this is what, in recent weeks, we are carrying, both in committee and in this very House..., we have brought various parliamentary initiatives and somehow the debates I think have been calm, pedagogical, open to proposals, because I believe that we will all agree if we say that this is one of the most serious issues. And, therefore, the challenge that we as a society have in our hands to face is of the most important. Then we are presented with this proposal of law with a few ambitious proposals, in our opinion, respecting the organic law, where even so many contemplate a broader approach of violence towards children, since all the time they speak of maltreatment – the companies that have preceded me have told me, said Mrs Silva – did not even count with the consent of all the parliamentary groups, to the band of the also necessary consensus with other actors in the sector, experts, academics, professionals, civil society... And here we must add, from Juntes per Catalunya, that we regret that it has been like this. Maybe it's not disconnection, it's just something else, it's that we're in a permanent campaign. In any case, they present a law that is already overtaken by the same LDOIA, with its existing protocols and the regulatory perspective, which will see the light in its own months. They want to make a law against child abuse, and that's a very attractive headline, and we don't deny that sometimes it's necessary, but we regret that maybe it's just that, a headline. They do not bring news, and those who do carry the current system without an appreciation of this system, without proposals of better that show a more proactive attitude, more determined to advance in truth for the better of the system of protection to childhood and adolescence. They haven't even done a little too much to respect the rights of infants and young people. To believe in the attention to maltreatment of infants and young people is to believe in the rights that these children actually have, to which they draw with dignity, as citizens and citizens in fullness of rights. They don't put their families in the center either. Neither is there any reference to the assistance nor to the intervention or treatment that is good enough, so as to accompany them in the process of recovery and overcoming the situation to which the episode of violence has given place. A unified system of complaints, I said, and that a coroner does the obvious exploration that this, when it is necessary, is already done, and that in any case there are hundreds of trained professionals, formats, abilities and vocations to detect, prevent and act before child abuse. Professionals do their job well. If we look at the proposal for a law on measures to prevent and treat child abuse, taking into account the specific competences of the Government of Catalonia, but also those of the State, the main conclusion from the legal, social and technical perspective is that it is an early initiative. And we consider it that way because the State has already initiated this proposition of Law 162/000447 in a plethora of the Congress of Deputies. It is an initiative of broad social and political consensus, said Mrs Ribas, an initiative in the process of elaboration in which the Government of Catalonia also participated, an initiative that contains a broad range of legal, social, educational, health, forensic, preventive, communication, civil, criminal, procedural, judicial and professional measures and legislative changes. The measures affect both state and local competitions. The scope of the initiative advised to wait for its approval to examine whether it would be necessary to deploy its own legislation with five contents and abst. And we also consider that even though everything is better, and it is obvious that this issue is so difficult to review, expand and improve as much as possible, the Generality already has legislation, legal instruments, public policies, technical resources and social programmes to prevent and treat child abuse, without prejudice to its adaptation and continuous improvement as a result of competing social circumstances. Well, I'm sure they're better, sometimes insufficient, but they're teasing them. And not only does he have them, but, as Mrs. Arrimadas herself said, he has announced the new Protocol of Action for Child Abuse, which extends his abyss to primary health care, and wants to promote prevention, early detection, comprehensive care and rehabilitation of affected children and adolescents. This means that from this year the primary health professionals will be able to introduce data from children with maltreatment risk indicators to the computerized clinical history, and the protocol also envisages actions to prevent prenatal maltreatment and in infants, all alerting to the risk that has to shake them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the government, despite everything, governs. She said the generality had different tools. And the main regulatory tool for addressing the abuse of underage people is the first Llei 14/2010, of May 27, of the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence. I can review it, I can update it, okay; but also the most recent public policies in this area are framed by two specific governance agreements: the Government Agreement 97/2017, of 18 July, and the Government Agreement 65/2016, of 17 May, as well as the tools that develop them. And a few more comments. It turns out if you don't care more than on this occasion the recommendations of Save the Children are not taken into account. I was already talking about the principle of my intervention: a law that has the will to protect the childhood of violence should, in advance, count with the consent of all parliamentary groups and, obviously, of the other actors of which we so often fill our mouths, but that it is obvious that we are according to the convenience. In this law proposal, unfortunately, it wasn't like that. This law speaks to us of protocols, but only in the educational sphere – there have been references to all the Members who have preceded me – while it is totally necessary to approach other areas, the family, the education also, the health care, social services and the Interior. It's about "maltreatment when it would be better to talk about "violence, since it's a much broader concept and with greater international consensus, as well as..., some points are often not left or reflected, such as the topic of abuse in the field of sport or the Internet. Perhaps the best thing you have ever done is to create a committee that has allowed us to begin to elaborate this Catalan strategy that was being spoken about by Mrs Najat, in order to protect the childhood of all forms of violence, by expanding and modifying the LDOIA or by making a specific law of the children's homes or Barnahus. In any case, given that the initiative will follow its handling, we will instead make the best contributions, so that it will become a real tool that allows us to face this difficult problem. Despite everything, Mrs. Arrimadas, there have been points of your presentation, not of the presentation of the law but of your intervention, in which we have agreed, and we will open the debate, you are quite sure that we will open it. In these issues where all parliamentary groups need to agree, because they are difficult issues, Parliament should not go into the campaign, and ideological conditions should not become obstacles to achieving the shared goal of eradicating violence and child abuse. In any case, finally, thank the good work that all these entities are doing and we expect their contributions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.180.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. As the totality reviews have finally been withdrawn, this initiative can continue its processing. [[Greetings.]] [[Asking the Government about the local world]] [[300-00114/12]] The next item on the agenda is the eighth and is the question to the Government about the local world, the question presented by the Socialist and Unites for Progress Parliamentary Group, has the word to expose it to Mrs Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.181.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies, in Catalonia the assemblies are, in the sense of doubt, the closest to the population, they are the ones who raise the blind every day in order to be able to give services and answers to the citizenry. It is the municipal administrations that give the quickest answers to the problems and daily needs of the veins. Some Members of this House will agree with me on this X-ray that I have just done, because they are directly responsible for some assemblies. Then they will agree with me that it is not always easy to give an answer to the people, because they know firsthand the great and the misery of municipal management. There are many arguments in favour of increasing the resources managed by local entities. The reality shows us that there have been the assemblies and local administrations that have most quickly articulated measures to reduce the situation of social emergence, and have directly helped the veins and veins and, moreover, allowed the social cohesion that is so necessary to our society. But unfortunately, in the past few years, the municipal governments have not found the necessary support to fight against the great inequalities generated by the crisis and the generality's and Spanish state's retail policies, which have not crept into the local world. By way of luck, the socialist government of the State has reversed the situation and with the decree it has enabled the assemblies to make use of the stables that have made the last few years to reverse these stables in their veins and veins. The joints are not second-hand administrations. Just over a month of own municipal elections, we have the opportunity to place locals at the centre of the political agenda, which should never have been out of this agenda. And we all share that the goal is to create resources for the local world. Nevertheless, the actions of this government do not seem to go the right way, since we have not heard a single clear bet to increase the resources to be managed directly for the assemblies and, therefore, it does not recognize the good work done for the local world. Concretely, counselor. What about cooperation programs with locals? And the only work and service platform in Catalonia, known as PUOSC? I'm sure all that sounds like it, 'cause you're going together, huh? That, in addition, PUOSC is the main tool of the Generality's cooperation with local authorities in order to complete the construction of equipment and services that avoid depopulation and promote territorial balance. So, we didn't hear about it: how to deal with investments and you need to have the joints without a call from PUOSC? See if you take advantage of this question and surprise us with a new call from PUOSC. We could also talk about the need to approve an annual roadblock – because there is already one, but it's not annual – to deal with those needs that have the various public road junctions. And of the presuppositionary endowments for integral actions to the barrel, introducing also complementary factors such as, for example, energy efficiency. I'd like to talk about the generality's debt going to the joints. In 2012 the Generalitat, encapsulated by Mr.Artur Mas, decided to set aside the financing of the Bressol schools. Then – they must remember well – the Bressol schools are financed by thirds, between Government, together and families. Today, 2019, the Generalitat continues to contribute zero_euros to the bressol schools. Who was it that took care of the schools when the generality failed to complete its financing? So the joints and also the deputies. And why did they do it? It is very clear, because they had to respond to these details and do not pass on the price to the families. And that, Counselor, is to leave the band gatherings. At the same time, we know the outcome of this lack of funding: consistory drawings brought that question to the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, which gave them the reason on various occasions, establishing that the Generality must pay retroactively all that it had failed to bring in the last few years and is obliged to assume the financing of the schools of a few municipalities. That, Counselor, as I said, is not taking care of the gatherings, it is quite the contrary: if it was necessary and the local administrations that have struggled every day to give an essential service to the families. Ah! And you don't get me out of what the assumption contained... then I'll say, what assumption? The virtual one they're holding on to the web? And today I'm going to talk about 155, how much they like to talk to Junts about Catalonia and Esquerra. It was during 155 that he paid a good share of the debt that the Generalita had with the joints. But from this, deputies and deputies, nothing, mutes and guavas. [[Widow's remorse.]] And so that the mayors and mayors of the different municipalities of Catalonia were delighted—enchanted—that they had paid everything they owed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But it would be good that as long as it's not a bit, just a little more sincere and saying that they've been wrong and that they're very wrong. Miri, the territorial distribution of Catalonia is very varied, and each territory needs to have something essential. That's why we think it's very necessary to expand FP's offer, especially the dual, according to the training needs of each territory, because it's not the same living in His hometown as in Barcelona, and the need for the population is quite different. These are questions that the assemblies constantly claim. But let us continue with the real problems of the gatherings: salvation. Counsel, do not'mdespati'; salvation is a main theme. People need to count on a continuous service of primary care centers, because getting sick and having to go to emergencies is not a whim of the patient, it is a necessity, and for this many joint complaints re-open and equip the closed municipal ambulances with professionals. We also have answers to how to end the waiting lists, which we have said so many times. And urgently we do need one thing: that there is a contingency plan to strengthen and equip the touristic municipalities with the necessary services during the summer period. The assemblies persistently claim the construction of nine residences, day centres, wards – of public title – and do not ask for it by wish, ask for it because it needs the veins and veins of each municipality. How can we give an answer to all these people, if the Generality does not move or a sun said on this topic? And we can't go over this repeated failure of the guaranteed income of citizenship, which doesn't even complete with the terms fixed to the same law. And the biggest shame of gatherings is that we need to ensure the functioning of special work and special education centres. That the Generalitat pay immediately 50 and 55_percent of the minimum interprofessional wages of persons with physical disabilities and special difficulties of work centres. You know, some centers... I don't know if you know, that's what, but listen to me: some work centers are calling together at this time to modify the contracts they have to be able to face up to this payment. Unbelievable. It will not give me time to finish the intervention and, therefore, I will leave the last part, which for me is very important and necessary for the second intervention, and so I will be able to finish answering and listening to your opinions on the subject. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.182.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the President's advisor, Mrs. Meritxell Budó. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.183.0	Thank you very much, President. Member, I am pleased that your group has decided to place the local world at the centre of the political agenda at one or two months of municipal elections. From our group, we keep the agenda day by day. Therefore, I am pleased to see that this concern is incorporated into this, which we have long since had for the local world from Junts per Catalunya and des de Gouvernement, des d'Esquerra Republicana. Certainly, I share this X-ray that has made the reality of the local world, and not only share it, but I will allow myself to expand it. As I said, I absolutely shared his concern for the local world. As you know, I have had the opportunity and the privilege of being the mayor of my people, of the Garriga, during the last eight years, where I have known well about the reality of the local administration – I assure you well that I know well about it – its situation, its virtues, and also its shortcomings, as well as the huge reptile that it supposes to serve the citizens from the first line. I don't know if they're aware – I suppose they are – of some of the events that have taken place in the past few years and in what way these events have conditioned the locals, and we could say that they've even put them against the strings. First of all, the severe economic crisis in this country, during which the mayors we have and have been at the edge of the cano, giving response to the needs of our fellow citizens and facing very harsh circumstances, leaving it more than obvious on the part of the State. In the second place, the recent policies of the State, and in particular the Law 27/2013, of 27 September, of rationalization and sustainability of the local administration, better known as the LRSAL, and its subsequent decrees implementing laws. In other words, re-centralisation, these re-centralizing policies create first- and second-class citizens and extend the will that everyone has the same rights as you. And this law, even today, is in force, and there was also a government of the PSOE that had promised to repeal it and has done nothing, but has allowed it to continue in force. And, later on, allow me to remind you of the effects of the intervention of the General Administration of the State through the application of Article 155, this Article 155 of which you were vain in your presentation, an Article 155 which has a committee to which you, your group, do not appear, and the other day, when there was a meeting with the Third Sector Social Table, neither did they be present nor did they be present. [[Greetings.]] As I said, the application of this Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, which has had a very broad scope and which has affected all areas of the Catalan Administration, along with exclusively affecting the Generality, this Article 155 and the measures adopted for the Spanish State have had a full impact with real damage and harmful consequences at the local level: suspension of the call for grants and programme contracts, paralysis of tenders for agreements and cooperation agreements, impossibility of contracting new staff... We could continue with many more, because there is not much more to detail. Therefore, one of the first objectives facing this new government of the Generality, and in concrete terms the Department of the Presidency, is the recovery of institutional normality and the execution of pending projects with the local world. That is to say, at the time of addressing the objectives of the present legislature in the local sphere, it is basic to take into account what the economic starting point was when we started. A starting point, as we have already said, which cannot be explained without highlighting the enormous effects that on the conjunction of public administrations, but especially local authorities, has suffered the economic crisis. The flood of entrances and the increase of social needs placed local administrations and the same government of Catalonia in a critical situation, which had to maintain the services and give answer to the demands of the citizenry, while a strong flood of entrances was a disease. Moreover, it had to be tackled without the solid collaboration of the State and with the objectives of the expense relief marked by the European Commission – they must remember it perfectly. This, however, and thanks to the important effort made in the last legislature by the Department of Governance, Public Administrations and Habitatge, led by Councilwoman Meritxell Borràs, and also by the Department of Economy and History, led by Vice President Junqueras, today faces the future with stronger strength, as it has been reduced to the minimum that the government of Catalonia's debt with the Catalan municipalities stands out in normalcy. Specifically– and I want to highlight this, because I think it is very important to do so and to give real figures–, at the beginning of 2017 the debt of the Generality with local authorities was 571.7 million euros, of which 383.4 corresponded to the debt of the current Secretary of Local Administrations and Relations with the Aran, which was a 67_percent of the total debt. The Generality's debt to the local world has been reduced by 87_percent since the year 2017; concretely, the debt of this Secretary of Local Administrations and Relations of the Aran, by 96_percent. And we can now say that in April 2019 the Generality's debt with locals is 72,38_million euros. Returning to the LRSAL, let me tell you that we still don't understand how you, while ruling in the Spanish state, have been unable to repeal this harmful law, that it is a frontal and premeditated attack by the People's Party government against local autonomy and that you repeatedly said you would go back. [[Greetings.]] Look, guess, we celebrate forty years of democratic assemblies, and no government in the state – and there are no different colors – has been able to approve and resolve the issue of local finance. Neither the UCD nor the PSOE in the different stages in which it has had the opportunity to govern, nor of course the People's Party have been able to find a new regulatory framework for local finance. They've always found those excuses for not doing it. Continuing with what you were asking of us, listen to me, before all this reality that we have and that you too, therefore, have manifested from the real world, what I want to say is that this government is committed to the local world. The Government understands the relationship between the Generality and the locals as an alliance, not a confrontational relationship, as a mutual recognition, follow-up and service relationship at the same level. As the country has the urgent need to create complicitys at all levels before this recent pulse of the State, and also before the need to respond to the challenges and needs of our citizens every day. The Government of Catalonia sees in the local authorities the necessary allies for the long term its policies, as the channel to become an efficient and quality server to its people from the vicinity. The Generality's commitment to the local world is material and strengthens for the first time with the fact that the Department of the Presidency assumes relations with the local world, through the Secretary of Local Administrations and Relations with the Aran. This is a strategic change, this is a change in focus of relations between the local world and the Generality. Local governments are related to all departments of the Generality and are the administration closest to the city. In this sense, the Department of the Presidency wants to be this gateway to local government in Catalonia, precisely to enhance the cross-cutting of local administration and, at the same time, to give it more relevancy. Let's talk about PUOSC, to end up. At the moment, look, he has given the chance that I can explain to him that yes, that it is certain that he recovers this program so necessary for the local world. [[Greetings.]] Currently it is working to make a call for a new single plan of works and services intended to cover the needy investors of the local world, a program that previews that the contribution of the Generality is of about 250_million euros and that will be complemented with the contribution of the deputies. We are all aware that PUOSC is an important instrument of economic cooperation for the realization of works and services of municipal competence and has been managed for the Generality since the year 1980. The PUOSC coordinates all the efforts of the various administrations of Catalonia to frame the economic cooperation between administrations aimed at creating new infrastructures and new equipment in the municipality, with the ultimate aim of improving the quality of life of the population. I think this is a tape, undoubtedly, historical; I think it's important this fact of recovering PUOSC. Look, I've been mayor for the past eight years in my municipality since 2011. I never had any PUOSC; I did not manage, under the two terms in which I was mayor, no PUOSC, because there was no one on the part of the Generality, because the economic reality was one. This reality is reversed, this reality is changing, and therefore from the Government of the Generality we recover this tool so necessary for the local governments, and therefore we can already ask ourselves, therefore, to explain that soon it will be the call of this PUOSC 2019-2023. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.184.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the Member's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.185.0	Well, I'll answer him later; I'll finish the comment. In the area of housing, which I have not been able to finish, we need to provide resources to the local administration, because this is a very worrying issue and the joints are the ones that are in the trench in these critical situations in the matter of housing. So this is a special topic and so we should have a more concrete and more up-to-date feeling, huh? We need to fight against empty and occupied habitats without enabling title creating urgently the interdepartmental table that has to coordinate the fight against these problems. And I'd like to finish, talking about the issues that I need to talk about, the issue of security. It's not a feeling; crime data is in Catalonia: home robberies, street robberies, rape robberies, wreckage of vehicles. This is a finding that is demonstrated by data. That is why it is necessary for the new promotions of Mosso d'Esquadra that have completed the training course to be incorporated into citizen security, preventive patrolling, in order to be able to fight against the increase of criminal acts, on home robberies. We also need to facilitate the repositioning of local police, very affected by the decree of early retirements, and create a specific course at the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia with decentralized teachings that allow its rapid incorporation into the municipality. I, mirin, of which I said– first– only one thing answered me: PUOSC. I'm glad. Total electoralist, too, huh? You have to say that, too, huh? Because you always put electionism on top of everything, but that's no longer the case. Second, we've never left the gatherings, ever; you have. And very typical: blaming the Spanish State. But it's the competitions from zero to three, whose are they? From the generality, right? I'd say. And we're still nothing. Since 2012! The other thing. They haven't set up or managed to pull up a habitating decree, which they had to pull out because they didn't find the consensus. I mean, they don't have to be doing it, I say, huh? Therefore, I believe that coming out here and blaming the opposition without showing here solutions for the local world shows very well what will be the tarannà of the new councillor in local world themes: zero, zero proposals, zero proposals of which I have told you. Education, schools bressol, neither speak of it ; security, nor speak of it ; housing, nor speak of it... What else? I don't care about anything else... well, the subject of PUOSC. Make it guaranteed, don't talk about it; issue of residences, don't talk about it. Home! I could answer a few things, just a few things. Because I don't think it's a way... to make an inquiry and ask for everything the local world needs and not be able to say, "Well, yes, we will do this or we will do that. No, the easiest thing is to say: "The Spanish State is to blame and, therefore, we cannot do anything about it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.186.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, it's the Councilwoman's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.187.0	Thank you, President. Well, quickly, because, with five minutes, I can see if I can get to everything. I'll answer him, and as long as I answer him, I'll just miss him. And I'll start with the municipal schools. Miri, the municipal Bressol schools, certainly, it is true, therefore, that there was a..., that is, since the generality was no longer providing resources for the municipalities to deal with the expenses involved in municipal Bressol schools. And from the local world, therefore, all the necessary tools have been put in place so that the citizenry does not suffer from this dwindling of important resources, and also from the parliaments has faced these expenses so that families do not suffer from an increase in the price and the cost of bringing their children to school. And, therefore, there is again this collaboration between administrations as necessary and as important in these moments of crisis, therefore, as we have suffered. But, certainly, the feeling..., there were some feelings – there were some feelings –, that's a reality. The court of justice, therefore, the Supreme Court has given reason to the assemblies that have presented a dispute against the Generality on the issue of the financing of schools in Bressol. In fact, this feeling is to reject the fact that the help of the deputies is fessin' on their own and in place of the Generality, which is who has its own responsibility and competence, isn't it? And in this sense, therefore, we are hoping that on the part of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia we will have to dictate firm feelings so that we can agree, negotiate and work with the assemblies and with the municipalist entities, as is already done with the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, as with the Catalan Association of Municipalities, this return of these resources to the joints in concept of deute that there is with the schools of Brezsol. But in this too... we don't have to let go of band that we have to remember another thing. And we must remember that from the year 2008 to 2011 the State subsidizes education from zero to three years and from three to six years. And it's from... Miri, 2008 it had 88_million euros; 2009 it had 83.5 euros; 2010 it had 78_million euros; 2011 it had 17.5_million euros..., but 2012 it had zero_euro. From zero to six years we were left with no recourse to give it support. [[Some applause.]] And don't tell me this isn't the State's fault, don't tell me we're blaming the State. I am aware that there has been a flood of resources from the Generality, and I said to him, "And there are a few feelings that when we are firm about it, and, for another band, we have these floodgates of the Government of the State, because yes, you are also not responsible – you are not responsible – and you have to say and you have to be able to explain. Miri, for habitation's sakes, these days we haven't been talking, and it's true, you said it, the Habitation Order has withdrawn from the order of the day. But if they want to, we're gonna agree, we're gonna be working folds, beyond the election, huh? We forget that we are in an electoral period, and we stand to agree and work, because in this Parliament I have the effect that at these times it is impossible to agree until this electoral period has passed. I hope that after the May 26 elections we will follow all the folds in a table and, in those matters which concern us, in those matters which concern us, in those matters which affect the day-to-day life of the citizenry, we will find ourselves and we will be able to work on the folds and reach this necessary consensus. For what he's doing to security, let me tell him who didn't let go of the move, more of the move, it was Minister Marlaska. Therefore, this is also a reality. And it is true that security is a matter of concern to our citizens, but not only in Catalonia, but the rest of the state also has security problems. And, listen, Minister Marlaska hasn't let any more moves get in the way. But, well, anyway, we'll still be working. But we will also continue to work claiming that in order to help the local world, what we all need to do is to urge us to find a new local finance law, a new law that allows us to definitively address the real problem of finance and eliminate unnecessary economic constraints at the gatherings. Miri, the local administration has long called for a good review of its skills and funding needed to meet them. The modulation and distribution of the deficit targets by the central administration have diminished the capacity of local administrations, which have been required to make a huge effort to restrict expenditure when the administrations that have made the most the debts, the administrations that have put themselves most up to date in debt and, therefore, in competition, and are the administrations that, when they have been most needed, have been at the expense of the citizens in order to ensure that they are able to give all the necessary services. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.188.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about its relationship with local governments]] [[300-00115/12]] The following question to the Government is about its relationship with local governments; presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom. It has the word, to expose the inquiry, Mrs Susana Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.189.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Good afternoon, Counselor, as if... you really have three questions, and you have to be very hard to tell us different things to all three, because surely all three of us are asking you with very similar things, but I would like to clarify from the beginning that what is difficult is to think that, all the time that different campaigns and different pre-campaigns last, opposition groups have to stop doing our function of monitoring and controlling the government, because it seems that all is electoralism. No, it's not electoralism... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, it's not electoralism, it's control and follow-up to government action. And, obviously, yes, there are highlights at the length of the year where there are fears that they are more important than others, and this is the case of municipalism with the elections that we have before us. I would like to begin with a question that I would like to clarify in your answer. What is municipalism for you, counsel? Not local governments, municipalism. What is it, for his government? While I hope that I can answer this, I will advance what is for us, for Catalonia in Comú Podemos, municipalism. For us, municipalism is a way to transform reality, to make society more just. It's a social movement, it's a movement of transformation, of redistribution, of social justice, of democratic radicality; it's not small politics. For us, municipalism goes beyond local governments. Local governments, assemblies, they are a tool of transformation, they are a tool for making social movements, organizations that work for a fairer policy, for a fairer world, for a fairer society. It's to put people in the center. Feminism is municipalism, and municipalism is feminism. To transform our immediate reality, to defend the life of our veins and our veins. Mr Maragall is not there, but I would like to make it clear that municipalism is not a small political one, for he has been repeating it when he campaigns to run for mayor of Barcelona. The gatherings, yes, are instrumental actors to give response to the needs of the population, to the most vulnerable population, to the most excluded population. It is the administration closest to the city. But, also, it is the most attacked, most limited and most mistreated administration for the other levels of the State. You're right, on the part of the Spanish State, you're right, but also on the part of the Generality. A government of the Generality that wants to guarantee the rights of the citizenry must be a municipalist government. A few weeks ago, we asked his predecessor if she thought the Generalitat was a feminist government. He told us he did. And we, on the basis of his answer and of which we were asked, believe that no. Now we'll ask him if you believe that the Generality is a municipalist government, because he will surely tell us that yes, but... you have this virtue of taking the words, of providing them with symbolism and of emptying them with content, but we will tell him why we believe that the Government of the Generality is not a municipalist government, because a municipalist government would not do what the Juntas Government does for Catalonia and the Republican Left. I will give just a few examples that have already come out and that will surely come out in the next inquiry. Indeed, what calls the most to the cell is to completely disregard the responsibility in the education of zero to three, who have assumed the joints and who you surely, at his time as mayor, more than once should throw your hands at the head of thinking why the Generality stopped sending this financing. I mean, no cost, neither, recognize it. And now, every time you bring a young man here, you ask that this payment be made quickly, that you do it immediately, to reverse this debt, your parties vote against it or abstain. That's it. They have also failed to implement the Law of Dependency. This caused the collapsing of the residents and the day centers. Who gives the answer? The meetings, as Barcelona did with the inauguration of the healing center to take care of the people who care, which was inaugurated today. They have abandoned the educational centres completely, settled in the policy of the barracks and left all the pressure of high demand to the local governments, while since the government is tanked lines of public education and they are kept in concert, as has denounced FAPAC, not us, FAPAC, who do not believe that it is possible to accuse of electoralism. They have not deployed the guaranteed income, collaborating with the collapsing social services, which are also effectively the joints that give them the answer. They have failed in the territorial implementation of the comprehensive care network of victims of male rapes. There's territorial imbalance. The attention to a victim and the reparation lie in the place of Catalonia where he lives, and this is inequality and neglect of the victims. They have not coordinated with the municipalities the attention to unaccompanied minors. And they have not given resources to those municipalities that are attached to them and that are giving them an answer. They did not comply with the Catalan range of refuges, while towns and cities had to pull forward and become places of settlement, towns and cities of refuges. They present draft laws, such as the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Act, which seek to reduce the skills of the assemblies and limit their ability to act before discrimination. This is not respecting the autonomy of the joints and the capacities of the joints. I, of course – the novelty of the day – present decrees, which withdraw, of habitation, in which they convey the responsibility of the emergence of habitation to the joints, without resources, without talking to it, without consulting it, without agreeing to it. Pure cynicism. In fact, the June of last year, in a motion that this group presented here, it was proposed that the Generalitat adopted as a policy make temporary housing to accommodate people in an emergency situation and who suffer denunciations. Do you know what the two governing groups voted for? Maybe he wasn't there and maybe he didn't know, because you weren't there yet. They're going to vote against it. And, then, to the decree of Mr. Calvet, to these dwellings they say: "Yes, yes, do them, but do them together, without resources, you will already pay them to give rent to the people in emergency. Asking the joint that in two years mobility only available for official protection, when the Generalitat only made five promotions to all of Catalonia, is that it is pure cynicism. That Mr. Calvet said last week to the question we asked him, that the decree intended that the assemblies would cease to cling behind the Generality is, once more, cynicism. Do you believe that a municipal government is going to Madrid and the parties that support this government are carrying a bill of express denunciation, instead of giving support to policies of care to vulnerable families? That's not municipalism. Do you believe that a municipalist government blocks assumptions that were the most resourceful to collect, from ugly many years, for the gatherings? No, that's not municipalism either. And now we're talking about L9. His inability to carry some assumptions in this chamber makes the central tram of line 9 new, already overtaken by 2027. The president, last week, was talking about line 9 trafficking pit, and today we know that, clearly, as there were no assumptions, therefore, there will be no funding and therefore until 2027. Clearly, the theme of line 9 and the Donor Convergence for all of another honest inquiry. And you spoke – and it is true –: "The great attack on municipal autonomy sees the LRSAL, approved by the People's Party. Yeah. But you know what, too? The expense rule. And do you know who approved the expense rule? The People's Party with the support of Convergence and Union. And this also limits the autonomy and capacity of joints. They're not a municipal government, and you know it, because more than just being mayor, you've been responsible for the social policies of the parliament. And you know how the deputy had to make a small box, from the back pocket of the Generality, to cover everything that the Generality could not do, and to give support to the joints in what the Generality could not do: bressol schools, public investments, economic activity, poor energy. And while what happened to the Barley? Do you know how many actions the municipalities have had to take because this government has not done the Barrel Law? I'm sure you know how many; I'm pretty sure you do. Therefore, you seek consensus. We offer them consensus, the motion we will be presenting for consensus, the motion we will be presenting for consensus; we will also see what is the attitude of the governing parties in time to work for these consensuses, at a time, as you say, electoral. And we will propose some measures: to review the skills and taxation; to make policies from the street; to recover the management of the common assets; to advance towards the repopulation of services, not to privatize, as the Government of the Government of Catalonia has done; to prioritize the instruments of local cooperation; to fight against rural depopulation, which makes a year and a half they have a working group and have not done anything else; to fight against the predation of the territory and against speculation; to implement in truth, but in truth, the system of attention to victims of male violence throughout the territory; to fight for equality from prevention and co-responsibility, to seek out medals with plans of equality with the highest priority. As soon as they're in charge, they'll get back to their debts, take on their skills, let the joints do their job and you do your job. They continue to drive municipalism and guarantee the policies that come to the people. They're still in government, they're in government, for a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.190.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.191.0	Well, three motions..., well, three questions from the local world..., it will be a little complicated not to repeat; but repeat, repeat all that it is necessary to recall, therefore, the good work done from the gatherings, right? First of all, what's left me is that in your intervention you said everything about what you think you need to do together, but at the moment you talked about local autonomy. And that, therefore, frankly, well, it got me out of it; it got me out of it that in any case you're referring to local autonomy. Miri, the CEO's data, huh? , that these last few days are appearing, we say, in the distance of the general appreciation of the institutions, that the assemblies are the third most valued institution of this country, after the universities and the Squadron Mossos. Therefore, something must be done well, because the assemblies follow the administration – or in this case the institution –..., the third most valued, the first as regards government institution. Miri, you've explained the whole... you wouldn't even know how to define it there, did you? He has set us up with a scene of all black, confusal and disloyal, on the part of this Government and on the part of the Government of the Generality of the previous legislatures, in compromise with the local world, beginning with the definition that he has made of municipalism, that he has asked me to..., that if I were able to... Look, listen to me, I can perfectly subscribe to the words that you have used to define municipalism. In fact, we agree that it's a way of looking at the fairest country, that it's not just the assemblies or the local governments, but it's a way of looking at a fairer and fairer country, huh? And that's why – that's why – it's just as important, as I said to the principle, to be able to guarantee good local funding. Miri, Catalonia has many territorial differences. We have cities like Barcelona, with almost 2 million inhabitants; but we have small municipalities, as I was this week in Anglesola, or in Ivars de Noguera, or in Preixens, municipalities with fewer than five hundred inhabitants. And this is also a reality of this country, it is a reality, in fact, a majority; it is a reality of the majority, because in Catalonia there are almost six hundred municipalities of less than two thousand inhabitants. And, therefore, one must also look at this smaller municipalism, this municipalism that cannot guarantee the very services that the great cities, this municipalism that must resolve, in some way– and in this case with the support of the supralocal administrations–, the reality of its citizens and citizens, in order to ensure that all the vision and the coming of our country, vis-à-vis us, has the same guaranteed rights. Sometimes... you were talking about the fact that in Barcelona I don't know what they've done to a center where they take care of the one they take care of. Miri, this Barcelona city has the luck of being able to lead it with suitable resources, but, as I said, this small municipalism does not have these resources; it does not have these resources to be able to provide its municipalities with day centres; it does not have these resources needed to deal with certain dependent realities. And, therefore, we need the support of these supramunicipal administrations. And in this case, then, there is the Chamber, and that sometimes it seems that the one who does not go to Barcelona does not go anywhere, or that only happens when it passes to the city of Barcelona, and no, also happens when it happens in the smaller municipalities, because to take care of those who take care is already a servant who is also lending himself from the supra-municipal area to ensure that all those people who take care of dependent people, are already great or still ascending or descending, so they can also have their time of rest, their care, is to say, and attention, because they also need to be taken care of and they need to be able to rest. In this sense, as I said, from the Government of the Generality we also continue to compromise with the local world, in order to be able to equip and to guarantee, as I said, these same servants, viscous in viscous of our country. And that's what we're doing wrong – but it's wrong – this recent-state pulse, this recent-state pulse, seen above all – above all – through the LRSAL, of this law that was to be repealed and that is still in force; a recent-state pulse that, on the whole, works to ensure that you see that you have the same guaranteed rights and rights, walk away and what you do is to provoke citizens first and second category of the place you live. That is why, certainly, this municipalism is a fairer way to look at our country, a fairer way to guarantee equal rights in our country. In this sense, there is also this commitment of the Government, therefore, to incorporate the competences of..., the relationship of the Vall d'Aran with the secretary who takes into account the local governments, above all, making clear the importance of the Aran as a national reality with a legally guaranteed political autonomy in Catalonia and which strengthens its bonds with the Generality giving compliment to Law 1/2015, of the special regime of the Aran. This agreement between the Government of Catalonia and Aran has approved a financing model that will last for five years, which must also ensure that they have sufficient and necessary resources to provide them with management autonomy in order to develop, from local autonomy, their functions in an efficient, effective and forward-looking manner to their own government. I was talking about the bressol schools; the bressol schools..., so we certainly don't have the assumptions at these approved times, but there is this first working pressupost document where they contemplate 20_million euros in the 2019 pressupost to return the payment to the bressol schools, on behalf of the Government of Catalonia. And yes, it has predicted, and is working with the municipalist entities, that, so good from the High Court of Justice of Catalonia is given the right to join together in the contentions that they presented against the Generality and, therefore, remain firm, so we will agree with the local world in which way from the Generality you can return these payments, and that is to be done, so, in a pact, obviously, with the municipalist entities, as I said before. More things. I told him about the recovery of PUOSC, which is also important to guarantee everything that he said: places of residence, because the joints can cope with these investments and equip themselves with these necessary equipments to be able to provide services to the citizenry. It has also increased, or is expected to increase in this 2019, the Fund for Local Cooperation of Catalonia, which is another way of financing the local world, especially for these municipalities that I gave before, smaller ones, right? Unfortunately, you have already told us that you do not want to give support to these assumptions so necessary for the country, and therefore the locals of Catalonia will not be able to enjoy this increase so necessary for their support. We ask them at this point, therefore, that after the May 26 elections, we regain the consensus, we regain the dialog, and therefore, among all the pleas we can face this presuppositional reality that must also allow us to develop local policies from our municipalities. In this sense, there is also the will to end the second call for Feder funds; in fact, it is already being called, until this sale is opened the third call period for these Feder aids, also for the territorial development, so as to guarantee, as I said, these strategies to specialize and to work together in all the territories this development. And this year, exceptionally, there has been a call for grants for territorial dynamism for municipalities of less than two thousand inhabitants endowed with 15 million euros, so concrete actions for the duration of concrete projects. And, finally – we have not spoken many times – we understand the relationship between the Generality and the locals as a relationship of trust, a relationship of mutual recognition, a relationship of follow-up and service at the same level, from the alliance that this supposes for everyone. In this sense, we want to face the debate of the Law of Local Governments, and the debate of its financing, and therefore, in agreement with the municipalist entities and a meeting constituted by us together, the nine decentralized municipal entities, the regional councils and the nine deputies, the Government of Catalonia will promote its debate in the framework of the Council of Local Governments of Catalonia; a debate, we believe, is necessary, but we must hope that these assemblies are constituted together. The question of finance we understand is extremely important, given that all administrations have a moral debt with the assemblies, that is true, because they have been the administration closest to the city and the one that has sustained the dignity of this country in times of difficulty.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.192.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, it's the congresswoman's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.193.0	Counselor, I understand that it really must have been hard, right? ..., all three interpellations. Especially in a moment... because I have the feeling that you are still talking more like the local world than the Government of the Government of Catalonia, because, surely, it's been a while. I mean, that's not..., this was not an inquiry against the local world, but in favor of the local world, of municipalism, then, that you are the one who defends municipalism in front of the inquiry that we have made to it is a little twisted, to say the least. You tell me that we have not defended local autonomy; I have asked you how many examples in which precisely we claimed that it is respect for local autonomy and that it is allowed to work together, and that it is not put to the wheel. I have put to him the example of the Law against Discrimination and for the equality of persons, for non-discrimination, that mainly what it does is to detail the ability of the assemblies to respond to cases of discrimination. This bill of law from the government, it doesn't go any further; maybe we'll look at it a little bit, and we hope that in the process of the law we can look at it, because we've come up with a lot of meetings on this subject. It's about local autonomy, but do you know the Housing Decree that was withdrawn today, which basically forced the joints in two years to mobilize only empty because, if not, the Generality would leave, when the Generality has only made five promotions to all of Catalonia? Is that respecting local autonomy? When you transfer the responsibility to give response to the emergency and to the denunciations to the joint assemblies, from 24/2015, without giving the resources, mortgageing the resources and saying: "Feu interim allotments, those that I voted against the Parliament, but your fire. Is that what you're talking about? Is that respecting local autonomy? I think it's the Government of the Government of Catalonia that doesn't have much clarity as to what to do with local governments. Perhaps the question is not what a group of opposition to the Catalonian Parliament should do for local governments, but what the Government of the Catalonian Government should do for local governments. And basically it's what we're going to ask him, what he's done and what he's going to do. We have already seen what has happened, because you have spoken of the conditions that have made it very difficult for you to give an answer, but in reality we come from the government of the Lord But, with the first details. The economic crisis had various ways of leading it, and austerity and "austericide" was the policy of the government of the Lord Mas, which we are still watering, and which supported the spending rule in Madrid, because the government of Junts per Cat, or Convergence and Union, or the PDECAT, depending on the different phases, basically agrees with the details and with austerity. And that directly affected the gatherings. And that's what happened with the bressol schools. But he's talking to me about assumptions that we insist on, if not approved by the government! If we still don't know if there's going to be money for line 9 because they don't agree whether or not they're going to put it on the presuppositional prorogation. Approve the government's assumptions and bring 'lsal Parliament'. Porti 'lsal Parliament and, if not approved, call for elections or make a question of trust, but don't put the assumptions on a web page. A web page is not a parliamentary process, it's not like assumptions are made. But I will set him the concrete example of the Bressol schools. In order to be able to respond to the expenses required by the Bressol schools for 80_million euros; we asked 45, and to the proposal that they have stuck to the web page there are 20. Exactly how did they intend to stand up and support local governments with these assumptions? If it's not seen at all. On the subject of masclist rapes, they did not implement SIEs that are necessary to give response from the territories; they know that it is SIADs that are giving response, with resources from the assemblies that should be for information. If it's more than I'm sure you, who just came from a gathering, are more aware than ever of the precariousness in which you are living and giving it an answer. And yes, I had a whole battery of things that could have been done by the Barcelona Assembly and actually that, look, because I don't care about electoralism, I won't say it today, because they already know them enough. But are you talking about small municipalities? What does the Government of the Generality do for these small municipalities that cannot give an answer? It doesn't matter. What did he do for the barrels that are in a marginal situation? Pick up the Barley. What have these little girls done in town that they're talking about? If they had a meeting tomorrow with the mayors to the new ones who have already told them they won't come because they're doing too much morning and so it's no way to treat the mayors of the Pyrenees. I think it would be good to take advantage of his ability and knowledge of the local world because actually this government is starting, now, to worry about the local world.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.194.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Again, the councillor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.195.0	It's where they take advantage, huh? Talk about the local world to include it all, huh? absolutely everything that this councillor and, therefore, to the councillor I have, but to the rest of departments as well. But it's the same, no problem, go ahead. Listen, I agree that we need to talk clearly about municipalism, we need to talk clearly, and we need to deal with the debate on how to evolve the local world in a consensual way. And that, I repeat, passes, passes, passes, and necessarily, to talk about local finance. It's that we can talk about everything that you want from the Generality, everything that we don't do, everything that we can't do yet, everything that you're trying to recover as the economic situation stabilizes, as long as we can go back to implementing those support policies in the local world that are so necessary – believe me, that's it. I explained this before, in my first intervention, in the inquiry that the PSC companies had presented to us. These years, since the Government of the Generality – and I have explained it before –, encapsulated for Constellera Borràs and Vice President Junqueras, was returned the debt or much of the debt we had, which the Generality had contracted with the assemblies. This has been an economic effort made by the Government of the Generality to return the debt to local administrations. But that's not enough. Neither the local administration will have enough, nor will it be able to guarantee all the services to the citizenry, only with the support that has been given by the Government of the Generality. It is a real consensus, it is a consensus of all, not only with local finance, that it is a key and very important piece to redefin the policies of local public administrations and, therefore, to guarantee those public policies that we all want to enjoy our citizens. We must also agree on a law of the territory which allows us to rebalance and empower the different territories of our country, which allows this balance, this territorial development. Since the Government of the Generality has been working to ensure this territorial dynamism, which is the territory of what is being spoken of in Catalonia. But to do all this we need, I repeat, these consensuses. Obviously, we have a habitat law or a decree that rules in which way we have to deal with the issue of habitat, because it's a big issue, because it's a topic that concerns citizens, our citizens and citizens. The issue of housing is a central issue that, obviously, we all need to have and we need to put at the centre of the political debate, it is clear that we do, but first we need to work on this consensus to ensure that we pull forward, because if we do not find a consensus law for everyone that guarantees that more than in some proper elections we can continue to give continuity to the laws, if we are not able to guarantee a hidden law from the consensus, from the participation of everyone, so as to ensure continuity and that effective policies remain, so it will probably be very difficult to solve the issue of housing in our municipalities and cities in a real way. In this sense, to end, I, listen to me, propose to stay, if you want, tomorrow, to start working all these themes of consent that you have also asked. Miri, who rose from the negotiating table of assumptions was you. You're going to rise from the negotiating table of assumptions, because we've continued to feel it. And, therefore, I invite you to return to this negotiating table so as to ensure that these assumptions can be drawn forward so as to guarantee these or those we agree and negotiate, but do not get out of the table. Come, negotiate, talk, seek these consents, seek this majority and make it possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.196.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on cooperation with local government]] [[300-00119/12]] The next question is about cooperation with the local administration, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. You have the word to expose the question to the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.197.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon to everyone. Counselor, welcome, is the first time we have the opportunity to discuss, and the truth is that if it is not easy to receive three inquiries in the same sense, as you will understand, being the third one to question, they will not be very original, will they not? , the arguments we make in the debate. I am not going to ask him to be original in his reply, the only thing I am going to ask is that he does not excuse and that he acquires commitments, which I believe is what motivates the debate that we are going to have next. The truth is that Constable Artadi has not left him a good inheritance. Today you have come and made a funding announcement that could have been made a long time ago, but just today, which has three inquiries, you make this announcement to us. The good news is that, as you have done nothing, you take the councillor's office as if you had taken it at the beginning of the mandate. As I say, three interpellations, a lot of condensed information, but I would easily synthesize it. Look, you don't pay what you have to pay, you don't assume the skills you have to assume and you don't fulfill what you promise. I think this would be the summary of your relationship with the local world. You have accumulated millions of debts with the municipalities. And I have heard you say something that I believe will have been the debate, but please don't repeat it. You have said that you have made a titanic effort to be able to take on these payments. Look, the titanic effort is done by the citizens of Catalonia; the titanic effort is done by many mayors who – from here we have to recognize it – also seek funding and try... so, to give solution to many competencies that you do not assume. And you have had to borrow the interest rates you will have to pay, the financial burden you will bear with the city council, when you had balances in your favor retained. You are fans of talking about fiscal deficits, but the biggest fiscal deficit there has been is what you have kept with the municipalities of Catalonia. On the other hand, you are tired of asking for more skills, but when you have skills you do not assume them. As has been mentioned above, the municipalities have to budget for their own competences, as important as some aspects of social policy, home care, maintenance of educational centres, housing policies, right? , they've commented on it before too, or security. And it's funny to me; I've heard the PSC here talk about increasing insecurity, but when we tell their mayors what they tell us is that their city is very safe and that's what Citizens invent. We had the opportunity to ask Mr Buch about this increase in insecurity in Catalonia and, well, he gave us arguments similar to yours, "difficulty to hire, but for the one hundred and fifty men of Torra, for this there has been, as we said this morning, no difficulty. Do you know that one hundred and fifty people are more than many municipalities in Catalonia have? And to all this we have to add that you promise infrastructure, promise basic services of care to the citizenry, and while you are in the loop the life out there continues, life out there cannot expect you to make election announcements. Look, as we have already commented a little bit on what the big blocks are, I tell you concrete examples. You promised a day center and a residence in Santa Coloma de Gramenet that you have not fulfilled and that today is not even bid. The same with CAPs in Terrassa for Zona Nord and Ca n'Anglada, which to date is not even tendered. You promise hospitals that still don't build themselves. They promised Ernest Lluch Hospital, which was to cover the cities of Montcada, Ripollet and Cerdanyola. And we're no longer going to talk about a star theme that is their failure to build institutes and schools. Today I was reviewing a 2013 proposal from this group, which was signed by Albert Rivera, remember? , the one who spoke Spanish and who was an example to many who today also speak Spanish from this Faristol. For he signed to request that the Escola Montigalà de Badalona, which at the time was in barracks, be built. Do you know how the Montigalà School in Badalona is today? I imagine you'll know him, if you don't ask him. They are some examples, I have given you some examples of each area, but the truth, that I would give to make an inquiry of each of these blocks. And, look, we – the president of my group has told you today – recognize that governance is difficult, we know that governance is priority. But why do we demand all this? First of all, because they are promises that you have already made and have not fulfilled. We are not asking you..., at this time we are not asking you for new investments, but you are fulfilling what you have promised the municipalities. And, secondly, because we know there's money – we know there's money. You complain about the funding, but, look, I'm going to do, if I may, a free cost audit. The other day a Member, in a motion, in the debate on a motion, told us that we always talk about chiringuitos, that we always talk about money going to TV3, that we always talk about the embassy, that we always talk about external action, that external action is nothing more than giving the baton of the process abroad. I'm going to give you some contextualized examples with municipal budgets. Look, in those budgets that you present, but no one is going to vote for you and you are not finally coming to debate, you allocate EUR 250 million to TV3. This is the budget of the municipalities of Badalona and Lleida together. You go to this duplicate entity, which is the Catalonia Tax Agency 60_million_de_euro. These are the budgets of Premià de Mar and Sant Adrià, in my area. The CTTI announces tenders for more than 800_million_de_euro. This would cover... besides, for an opaque organism, with irregular recruitments, which is under the shadow of suspicion. This would mean the annual budget of the cities of Terrassa, Sabadell, Santa Coloma de Gramenet and Figueres together. And, without going any further, today I have listened to you..., you have asked a question in the control session, and you dedicate 10_million_de_euros to the building of Acció Cultural in Valencia. Can you tell me how you are going to explain to the citizens of Catalonia that while they wait for the rehabilitation of their facades, while they do not get subsidies on facades that are falling to pieces, you pay a building in Valencia? And we could keep talking about their waste, surely we would cover all the municipal budgets... I know that I have not entered the bars, nor the embassies, nor the Council of the Republic, nor their travel expenses, because I would not have enough time. But I'm going to give you one last example. You spend on institutional advertising 20_million_of_euro. Do you know what this corresponds to? It corresponds, for example, to the budget of the City Council of La Garriga. And we have never heard you raise your voice against this government. You were more than coming here, as many other mayors did, with the rod, to shake, to encourage every time they hit. But if they had stirred the rod with all the social injustices that have been committed, if they had stirred the rod to demand, because there was money, better funding for the municipalities, we would have gone better. And here we go to the other side of the coin: what you have also done from the city halls. Because you from the municipalities finance party associations, finance the AMI, finance entities that do not seek precisely the common good. Not to mention either – it would already be too much to enter – all the cases of corruption that have occurred in many municipalities, here also with the invaluable help of the PSC; a PSC that comes here, complains, but has not hesitated to sign pacts with you to govern in many municipalities. In fact, there are fifty municipalities governed by the PSC in the Association of Municipalities for Independence. Look, we are clear that the local world must be a priority. That's why – and here I go to the proposed part of the exhibition – we're going to ask you to recover investments, like the one you announced today, to recover the Neighbourhood Act, the Neighbourhood Act that hasn't applied since 2010; the process began, and you forgot about the neighborhoods. What we are also going to propose is that you work proactively, that you do not have to wait for the municipalities to ask for co-financed projects, that you work to analyse, to map all the areas of Catalonia and to draw up something that we would call ‘a territorial vulnerability index, where the needs of each territory are detected, taking into account various factors: social, demographic, employment, housing, security, and also needs that can be structural from some territory, and that we have an objective method to determine where investments go. We understand that their cowardice, that their policy of thinking less about the municipal world, has created inequalities that we understand very important even between neighborhoods of the same city. And I believe that in this we will agree: either we act already or we run the risk of having a Catalonia at two speeds. As a matter of fact, it's already happening. You have used the municipalities as branch offices of the process, you have used them as windows to hang banners, to hang ties, but you have forgotten the real function of the municipalities. Town halls are the first institution in front of the citizen. And where there has been a councillor of Citizens, where there has been a public office, many times alone, many times in situations that have not been pleasant but that we will not stop doing, we have defended the local institution, we have defended all the municipalities. They were talking about electoralism. Well, look, I'm convinced that from May 26th we're going to do it in more municipalities, with many more councillors, and also from local governments. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.198.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the turn of the President's Counsellor, Mrs. Meritxell Budó, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.199.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputy, look, I'm surprised that from your group it's possible to give us lessons on how to govern the assemblies, when they don't have a mayor. I seem very distressed, that fact, honestly. I mean... [[Greetings.]] And in fact, listen to me, what we've done at the gatherings along these years has always been at the side of citizens and citizens of our country. This is what has been done from the meetings in Catalonia, in this follow-up to all those years of crisis that have suffered from the meetings, that has suffered from our citizenship, in order to ensure above all – above all – that those who have had more difficulties, that those who cannot follow, have the same rights, have the same guarantees, and, therefore, are always at the side of our citizens and citizens. This is what we've done basically during these years at the Catalan meetings. The Catalan assemblies have done this, and I will repeat it, so a little bit, I will do this X-ray that we did to the principle of everything folded, right? It's true, and I've already told the beginning, that we can all share, of course, the concern for the local world. I know, I've been mayor for eight years, and so much so that I've been mayor for these years of difficulty and crisis of the joints. I remember a few words from Councillor Buch, at that time also Mayor, that when we arrived at the gatherings he said: "Look, in the gatherings that there are these pictures of the mayors, they will say that the mayor made the pavilion, the other one built the school, the other one made an ichs equipment, the library, say, and this other one, that it is us, we have had to pay everything, so we found the Catalan assemblies, and we have also been able from the local world to improve municipal finances, while we guarantee the fairness of rights to all citizens and citizens. Look, I've explained it, we've been on the side of cities and citizens, and in this sense the Government of the Generality has been on the side of cities and citizens. The economic crisis that you were talking about has been strong, but it has been strong and also striking other facts, such as, for example, the approval of the Law 27/2013, the rationalization and sustainability of the local administration, the law most known as the LRSAL, and its subsequent implementing decrees. A re-centralisation, a law that re-centralizes and seeks to draw competitions from the joints, some skills that you are putting in value but that I have not felt that defending the eradication or repeal of this law. A law that refocuses and creates first-class and second-class citizens and extends the will that everyone has the same right, vis-à-vis each other. This law has a clear, recent will, and you and your party also have a clear, recent will. Therefore, I do not understand how they come here to defend local autonomy, when they are not able to defend Catalonia's autonomy either, when they are not able to defend the financing model, when they are not able, in short, to defend justice and policies for the citizens of this country. You say "started the process in 2010... How did you say that? "He started the process and they forgot to make plans of barrels," he told us. No, listen to me; in fact, the process probably had its maximum revulsion because there was this major crisis, and the people opened their eyes and it was stated that we have allocated EUR 16,000 million to Spain with a fiscal deficit. And that's not what they're talking about. Well, as I said, the flood of entrances that there has been and the increase in social needs have been in a difficult crisis, obviously, the local administrations and the same government of Catalonia, yes, sir, that they had to maintain and that they had to give answers to the demands of the citizenry, while a strong flood of entrances was in place; and more so, they had to face it without the solid collaboration of the State and with the objects of expense that the European Commission marked us with. However, thanks to the important effort made by Councillor Borrás and Vice-President Junqueras in the last parliamentary term – I explained this – today we can face a stronger future, today we can face a future with more resources, since it has been reduced to the minimum that the debt level of the Government of Catalonia with the municipalities stands out from normality. In this sense, to say that there has been a reduction of 67_percent of the total of the debt that had been contracted with the municipalities, and in this month of April of this 2019, the debt of the Generalitat with the locals is 72,38_million euros. For what he does to LRSAL, let's go back to explaining it. We do not understand how this law has not yet been repealed, bearing in mind that everyone wants the local world to have these skills, to have this visibility, to have, therefore, all these public policies guaranteed, as you are asking us here. Mirin, I'm sure we've suffered a severe economic crisis, an economic crisis that... as I explained earlier, it's now normalizing and it's getting better. And that's why, at this point in time when the situation is recuperating, we are recovering the PUOSC, an important investment program for the territory, a program that provides 50_million euros so that the local world can make investments, a program that provides especially those small and medium-sized municipalities, as well as the districts. The aim of the programme is to promote actions that enable local authorities to foster the generation of opportunities and create synergies with the agents of each territory, also very important to ensure territorial development. These actions, I have explained before, were intended to promote economic development, always with the leadership of local authorities and with a special treatment for the territories where there are more complex situations, both of aging and of population loss, which is also a reality of our country. The increase of the Local Cooperation Fund of Catalonia, which represents the participation of local authorities in the Generalitat tickets and which is distributed each year according to the criteria set out in the Annual Law of Presuppositions. The Project of Presumptions for this 2019 contemplated an increment of the 3,4_per_cent of the Local Cooperation Fund, but unfortunately these presuppositions have not yet been approved in this chamber. It also provides Bressol schools with an import of 20_million euros, so as to begin to reverse the financing situation of municipal Bressol schools by the Government of Catalonia. Also the investment programme, the Feder Catalunya 2014-2020, foresees actions driven by local authorities in the framework of priority axis 4, which aims to promote the pace of a low carbon economy in all sectors, and that of priority axis 6, which aim to conserve and protect the environment and promote resource efficiency. In this sense, 37,2_million euros are available in this new call of the Feder. I also spoke before the relationship with the Aran and the new financing system to guarantee the autonomy and territorial development of the whole of the Aran. For what it does to the normative quality, let me also highlight that in the past Government of the 21st generation has approved the incorporation, in the preliminary memoranda that must contain the preliminary draft of the law, of a standard impact assessment in the assemblies, depending on its size. This is very important; this is a key fact, actually. For the sake of the Department of the Presidency, this action is designed to facilitate the taking into account of the peculiarities with regard to the size of the municipalities, and especially the smaller ones, in the evaluation of the standard projects, as well as the assessment, where possible, of measures that simplify, flexibilitize and adapt the standard mark, because the same standard mark is difficult to apply in large cities or in metropolitan areas as we are, or in other places in the territory, therefore, more distant. Finally, the law of local governments and local finance. I repeat: you are now present at some Spanish elections, some general elections, but we have not felt that you are claiming in your programs, beyond speaking all day of the process and the process, we have not heard any constructive proposal, we have not heard any proposal that speaks and approaches the reality of the local world. I encourage them, I encourage them to speak of this reality, to talk about the financing of the local world, which is committed to improving the financing of the local world, if you enter to govern in one way or another the Government of the Spanish State. Therefore, speak and face reality in your political debates, because I only hear a theme from you. You say we're monothetical and we're talking all day in court. Forgive me, forgive me, forgive me, but who talks all day, I think it's you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.200.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, the questioner's deputy has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.201.0	Thank you, President. Thank you again, Members. Counselor, thank you for your reply, thank you for the answer. The truth is that I don't think you can excuse it being the third, because you, if I may, are more predictable than the end of Titanic. The truth, that the arguments you brought here... I had imagined what replicas I could give you. First, on the issue of mayors. Look, I think, to measure municipalism, well, well, yeah, one way may be the mayors we have, but I'll give you another example. You're mayor in the Garriga with two thousand five hundred... [[Funnel veils]] – Not anymore, it has been –, with two thousand votes, isn't it? approximately, you got out in the last municipalities. We, in Santa Coloma de Gramenet, where we have three councillors, have about five_ thousand. It's more than half. A councilman of our Hospitalet – a councilman of our Hospitalet – is equivalent to the absolute majority that you have, for example, in Solsona, with which... But what I will not accept is that you tell us that because we don't have mayors we can't come here to talk about municipalism or to give lessons – to give lessons of course not – and that you, who give lessons in democracy to Spain when you don't paint anything in Congress. Good. I thought today that his municipalism was going to weigh more than his radical independence, but the truth is, no. You had it easy, because you just started. You could have said, as you normally do: "No, look, the fault is of the inheritance received, which you say, even if the previous government is of its color, "the fault is of the former councillor; I pledge to work, I pledge to seek solutions, but you have sought only excuses. I've told you about all the non-compliances. Almost every committee has motions for resolutions. And you haven't committed to proactively scheduling everything you've accomplished, putting us on top of... We have already said this, we understand that there are budgetary limits, we believe that priority must be given, but we must schedule, tell us all the breaches that exist. By the way, they send us this, from the neighborhood of Can Llong, Sabadell, in case you want to approach, because there they have made a complete: they claim a CAP, they claim an institute and they claim a school. And, in the end, I believe that a proof that municipalism, well, right now, you care about the right thing, is to know which municipality has most visited the President of the Generalitat. Do you know what it is? Waterloo. [[The timer laughs. Greetings.]] The city hall... The other day Marta Pascal said that Catalonia can't be ruled from Brussels, but they're also not showing that it can be ruled from here, from Barcelona. Look, you, too, another topic that you draw: that the fault is Spain. Well, look, if you look at the budgets of any town hall, you'll see that an important item is taken over by the Spanish State, and that transfers usually arrive on time. But yes, I agree with the glove that has thrown us: of course we will have to talk and it is a debate that will have to be opened on municipal funding. In fact, we propose the participation of the municipalities in both the VAT and the IRPF, and we already carry it in the municipal program of 2015. On the Law on budgetary stability, then, well, we would have to open a debate, although we believe that certain limits must be set, because there have also been high levels of indebtedness of the municipalities. But let's focus the debate here: let's talk about their non-compliances and their waste. I have given you many examples, and you have not answered me. Look, I could put more: €70_million in external action; this would cover the budget of Gavà and Viladecans. And I'm going to put you one that's definitive: the 9_de_metro line, a cost overrun of 4,000_million_de_euros. With this they could cover almost all the municipal budgets of all the municipalities of Catalonia. With this, let us also focus here, that the debate is about the management that you are doing and not about the management that the Government of Spain is doing. And, on the debt of the Generalitat, then, well, it's the usual. I repeat, do not say again that the effort has been yours. Because, besides, I've heard you say they'll pay if the TSJC tells you. Well, will you have to pay, or do you not recognize that you have...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You said it. Look, it will also be on the record: "Well, if the ruling of the TSJC... then we will see how to pay. But, hey, pay proactively, if you know you owe it. In short, what we have said to you: from 26 May the panorama will change a lot and there will be no palm mayors who come here with the rod to applaud their blows, they will have mayors who really claim the local world and demand better services for the citizens of the people of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.202.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, for the reply, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.203.0	Well, little more remains to be said. I already have a contesting statement on this subject, but, look, do you allow a thing: Waterloo? Are we talking about Waterloo? If you want to talk about it, huh? Because the proof that you don't know what municipal autonomy is is that you go there to make a demonstration, don't ask permission, destroy the gespa and the crowd. This is their knowledge of what municipal autonomy is. [[Some applause.]] Look, listen to me, do you have any less small municipalities? No, because, of course, it's... it's like, you value the votes of small municipalities, when you compare them to a city of the largest in Catalonia. The percentages, probably, are those that give governments, beyond the name of voters, because this, of course, is proportional to the hundred and is proportional to the inhabitants. Therefore, I would ask you, in this sense, to be respectful with those small municipalities and with all those people who are leading the local world with all the difficulties, with a reduced number of votes, because, obviously, they are not as big cities as Santa Coloma, which is what you mentioned. In this sense, I think that, in the end, today I have been asked a general policy debate rather than a debate from the local world, and well, therefore, I will be attentive, I will be loving, I will convey to all my fellow ministers all those concerns and all those proposals that have made to me today from groups, I will take them in place and, therefore, I will move them in position. But I repeat this will of dialogue, this will of consensus, that we follow all the lines of, past this electoral period, so, that marks the sessions of Parliament, too, because it marks the way in which some groups are headed to others..., allow me to allow when this electoral period ends to allow all of us to pray in one table, to be able to speak, to consent, to find those answers that citizens demand from us, that citizenship asks us and that citizenship needs, and that we do so out of responsibility. I place them to find us after this electoral period, to be able to be calmly, along with the media, along with the cameras, along with electoralism, to be able to face the real problems of this country. I, forgive me, lords of Ciutadans, to end. He said someone wants to rule Catalonia from Waterloo. Catalonia is governor of the Generalitat of Catalonia, Catalonia is governor of the Palau of the Generalitat. But what you want is that Catalonia is governed from Madrid. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.204.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on Europeanism]] [[300-00118/12]] The next question is about Europeanism, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The honourable Member Susana Beltrán explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.205.0	Thank you. Good afternoon, Counselor. The first question would be that we are waiting in this Chamber for you to present the Strategic External Action Plan and the European Union, which is a strategic plan which is contained in the Catalan External Action Act, and which is a four-year plan in which Parliament has the power to follow up on that plan, not only with regard to external action, but also with regard to the European Union. I would like you to answer me when you will present it, as it is a plan that would be from 2019 to 2022, we are in April and we know nothing of this strategic plan. We do know that you have a Europe plan. I have read the Europe Plan, but I understand that the Europe Plan is not the Strategic External Action Plan, which also entails obligations with regard to you in this Chamber. It is true that in this Europe Plan you mention or want a Europe of solidarity. In that we agree, we also want a Europe of solidarity. In fact, not many days ago the European Parliament adopted a resolution in which it noted the humanitarian emergency in Venezuela. Here in Catalonia we have many Venezuelans, we also have Venezuelan pensioners, who are here in very bad conditions. In the previous legislature, a motion was approved so that they could access all social assistance in Catalonia, as long as they could not collect their pension, the pension of Venezuela. They recently appeared in the Committee on External Action and there was a commitment from the groups to strengthen and enable these pensioners to access these social assistance in Catalonia. I would like to understand..., and I would like you, therefore, to give us the good news that, in months, you will be able to implement these aids for Venezuelan pensioners. But the European Union is also a union of values, it is a union in which values, that is, democracy, freedom, human dignity, respect for human rights, respect for the rule of law are the pillars on which the European Union stands, which is a peace project. And this peace project also has to do, to strengthen it and to improve it, with transparency. I believe that what I am going to comment on is expected of you, but I am also going to tell you: look, I have been reading the Court of Auditors' report for several days, and now I understand why you – not only you, but also the previous governments – did not give me the information I was asking for. You – and your Government, too –... I am in protection, that is, I have been violated by the right of access to information four times, and those four times have a lot to do with what the Court of Auditors' report is explaining. Look, there is an American lobby, Independent Diplomat, which already in the age of Artur Mas, for an amount of almost 2_million_de_euros, the Generalitat of Catalonia contracted, a lobby specialized in secession processes. We have been asking for memories for years, what I was doing, and you have repeatedly denied access to that information. Finally, the Court of Auditors explains it to us, presents us with that piece of puzzle that I missed, right? And the Court of Auditors says that this American lobby was dedicated to looking for influential people: there were informal meetings with NATO, it also tried to contact officials from third countries, academics, politicians from different countries... Also from this American lobby were written argumentaries that were addressed to embassies and third countries, governments from third countries, and that those argumentaries, which were called ‘memorandums...' – which was another..., or let us say that it was the first protection they had in the previous legislation – these argumentaries that were sent to third countries were changing according to the political context, but with a very clear purpose, that was to prepare the secession process gradually in all these years. In addition, Independent Diplomat facilitated, sought, selected influential people: politicians, journalists, academics, officials who might be more or less related or might be more or less sensitive to the independence cause, then gave it to Diplomat – that little boy who was also created with an annual budget of approximately 2_million_de_euros – and from Diplomat, in the program of international visitors, which is another of the shelters in which you did not want to give me that information, the Secretary General and Diplomat selected those people who would be invited to come to Catalonia and know their separatist reality, biased, of what was going on all these years. It is a report that I strongly recommend, it is a reading that I recommend for Sant Jordi, because it is very clear how it has been working, during all these years, and it is understood why opacity, to prepare a process of secession. They come out separated like that dinners were paid at a hundred_ninety_euros per diner, with wines that in total amounted to about six hundred_euros, that those dinners, those meals, watered with public money, with money from all Catalans, then they were paid: a part– two diners – paid Diplocat; another two or three diners paid them a delegation, which was, outside French, outside Geneva; some private entity also paid those dinners, those meals, with which, in some way, you avoided that all that money could be brought together, which, obviously, was violating very clear rules of Spanish constitutional law, including Catalan law. And it's barbarity. It's just one page behind another. In all these years, you have not only violated..., let us say that the culmination point was September 6 and 7, when you loaded the Constitution, the fundamental norm, you loaded the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia. But it is that before you violated rules such as public procurement processes, violated rules of transparency, violated..., the issue of delegations is impressive; that is, irregularities occur not only in the recruitment of those delegations, but also in the supply contracts of those delegations. And all that with a total opacity and a total lack of transparency to this chamber, which years and years we were asking about. And I said to him a moment ago: it is that the European Union is a union of values, and within those values is respect for the rule of law. My question, counselor, would be this: do you continue to believe that your separatist ideology is above the laws, is above not only the Constitution, the Statute of autonomy, but also the laws of transparency, the laws of public procurement...? Do you believe that you are legitimized to re-implement..., not to implement, to re-declarate to this chamber a unilateral declaration of independence, and that is possible or above your ideology, above these European values, above the rule of law in particular? I would also ask you: is your Government going to assume responsibility for all the money, the disgust of so many, thousands and millions of people who have had this whole process, which has nothing to do with the external action or the action of the European Union, but does it have to do with a planned strategy to promote secession? Will you take responsibility? Are you going to return the money? We talked about millions of euros that could have gone, for example, to development cooperation; I no longer go to other departments, I stay in the Department of Foreign Action, Transparency and Institutional Relations. Are you going to return that money to all Catalans? Will it be possible to use that money in policies that benefit citizens? I would like you to answer these questions to me. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.206.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the advisor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.207.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., MP Beltrán, I thought today we would talk about Europe and Europeanism. You told us about Venice; well, we're interested, huh? But, gee, I thought we'd talk about something else. He told us about Catalonia's independence, very much; I appreciate it, it's a subject that we also care about, but I thought it was another, the central issue, today. He also spoke to us about those courts that want to prevent precisely those of the Government of Catalonia from acting externally and acting externally in Europe. And he told us about the right of man and the resources of man that you have raised, and that even before Parliament's terms are over, they already bring him to the public prosecutor's office. He told us all about it. He also said very surprising things, as we had now carried the Spanish Constitution. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, he said it, textually. We've loaded the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And I didn't know without knowing, that this had happened. Maybe he was on a road trip. I should be on a trip to Europe, I've been there a lot. There was a lot, because it's my obligation and because, obviously, our country is asking, it's asking that we are present in Europe, that we take advantage of being European citizens, huh? And the obligation we have to internationalize the country, obviously, because we live in a global world, and if we don't, then the citizens will find it missing; of course we have to do it. Look, I am going to talk to you about Europe, the Europe of the values that you have quoted at some point, and in which, in what you have quoted, I in essence – in essence – would coincide. The essence of today's Europe that we are living, that we are trying to build, despite all the difficulties, is Europe that lacks the ashes of the Second World War and, before, of the first; that is to say, a continent that decides to change, because on two occasions practically it is the subject of disaster. And then it is like, in the forty-fifty years, this Europe, through the founding pairs of this new model of coexistence, of Schuman, of Monnet, of Adenauer, of Gasperi, tries to avoid at all costs everything that had brought Europe, for two consecutive times, to the catastrophe. And, therefore, the values in which it is founded, the essential values, the basics, the main values in which, therefore, this new Europe of the end of the 20th century and the 21st century is founded, and with which we still strive, we believe and want to contribute the best that we have so that this Europe functions..., it is Europe that is founded on the core, on human rights and on democracy. And with the pau because, obviously, the best way to overcome the confrontations and disasters of the past is to work for the pau. The pau, which does not pass for defense beyond the nation state, because precisely the confrontations between the nation state and the will to dominate each other, this confrontation and the sacrament of the nation state and of state nationalism is what brought these great problems to the Europe of the past. And, therefore, this must be overcome. We must overcome the Europe of aggressiveness, the Europe that prefers to press rather than the ballot boxes. And we are with this Europe, obviously. Are you there? We're there. The Europe that bases the pau also on the dialog, on the coexistence that passes through the dialog. And you go to demonstrations where there are banners that say no to the dial. Therefore, I ask you: are you with these essential values of the Europe we want? Are they there or aren't they? The Europe of human rights, where citizens and citizens are full of rights and, therefore, respect their rights: the right of demonstration, the right of political representation... Look at these links [[the timer doesn't set the icons]] of people who represent other people who have voted for them and who cannot be here. So, they're violating their rights. The right to vote, the right to expression, the right to free demonstration and peaceful and democratic persecution of ideas. All these rights are the rights that characterise the Europe in which we believe. And that's why we're also deeply European. And because we believe in democracy, the government of the people, for the people and with the people. We believe, in democracy, and therefore we believe that..., there may be other systems, but this is the least sorrow we know and, therefore, it is the one that allows us to live with this little and with this respect to the human rights that we previously assigned to it. And we can give it many times, but because democracy works well, so we must be able to vote and let it go, and we must not vote by force so that this vote can be broken down. Are you in this Europe that you believe in democracy and do not believe in disrupting votes? Are they there or aren't they? Because then maybe they'll review some of your plans. Miri, it was precisely one of these founding parents of Europe that we all want and that we are living and that I would like to share with you, right? "The Europe we believe in and the Europe we want to build is a Europe that does not group states, but unites people. So, the confrontation... yeah, why do we want a summer? - Why do we want a summer? So that's why it's our way of contributing to this Europe. You also want it, you want it, you want it, you want it, you want it, you want it, you want it, you want it, you want it, you want it, you want it, you want it, you want it, you want it, you want it, you want it, you want it, you want it, you want it. So, if you don't think first about people, but think first about the states, against what one of Europe's founding partners said, then this brings us to the confrontation between states that so many evils, huh? And so many curses have brought Europe into the past. We see it the other way around: first it's people. And, so, it's the people who have to decide, huh? Which political system do they want, which democracy they want, and which democracy they want, of course; that too they can decide, can't they? Miri, we are Europeans and we want this Europe that is based on the foundations, the free foundations that characterise it. How do you feel about it? So, man, the strength seeking this authentic Europe, that of the founding partners, the one who quoted them, deepened in the European project... We have a plan for Europe; so I am pleased that you have read it, and if you have read it, you will see that what we defend is the more presence in Europe, that we defend more Europe on behalf of our country, more participation in the European project on behalf of our country. And I'm sure we'll agree on that. He says that..., he has acknowledged that we have a plan in Europe – therefore, it is also to celebrate that this is publicly recognised here in this Chamber – and he has demanded the strategic plan of outsiders. We'll introduce him to the government on June 5th, huh? , for his information, and then we'll take him to this room, so, in the stipulated terms. We believe in Europe, we are Europeans; therefore, we are not Brexiters, we are remnants, we want to be Europe. Another thing is that there are others who want to take us out, but we want to stay in Europe. And we will never do what they have played like theirs, which is that, at a very delicate moment, when the Kingdom Unit is trying to negotiate with the European Union how things end, huh? , as things end from a decision that was made to the Kingdom Unit on Brexit, you pose before the Gibraltar issue and say : "If the Gibraltar issue is not resolved, then this mark agrees with us the question. It's like, in front of the flag, in front of the territorial claim of a penyal before it doesn't, huh? , a European agreement of so much abst, of so much importance and of so much magnitude and of so much impact even at home. This is going against the essence and European principles. And I'll tell you another thing: Catalan society and the citizens and the citizens of Catalonia are net contributors to the European Union, and I say it in good faith, and I say it with pride. That is to say, according to the figures of the Ministry of Heritage of the Montoro era, we contribute 280_euros per capita, only before Sweden and Holland. We are ahead of France, Germany, Great Britain... So, listen, let's say it, and let's say it clearly: we are not just Europeans, we believe in Europe, but we help build it with all the necessary tools. This government that I represent is a government that is European, that is Europeanist and that is European, and we fight those who lay before the entrepreneurs, before the citizens, those who lay before the selfishness of the states, before the collaboration between the people, and those who lay before them, eh? , regressions in all the rights and fundamental principles of Europe, pose this before what is the progress in terms of pau, democracy and human rights; foundations of the Europe we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.208.0	Thank you, Counselor. The answer is the deputy's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.209.0	The first question I asked you was when you are going to present to this Parliament the strategic plan of external action and the European Union, and, within this Europe plan to which you referred earlier, it talks about a Europe of solidarity, and that is why I was asking you about the Venezuelans who are in Catalonia, which is still a European region and in which we also have competence to assist those in terms of social aid. And you haven't answered that question, if soon, in months, these Venezuelan pensioners will be able to access these social assistance. He hasn't answered my questions... It says: "The European Union is a union of values, and you comment on human rights, democracy, peace... Peace itself is not a value; it is the values that underpin the process of European construction, the peace process. But in any case you have not mentioned the rule of law. And he didn't answer me when I asked him if his separatist ideology... they think they're legitimized to be above a value that has the same hierarchy and that one doesn't understand without the other, which is the rule of law. You haven't answered me. He says: "We want a Europe that prefers the ballot boxes to the batons, don't we? If I understood correctly, you said to me: "We want Europe that prefers ballot boxes to pots. Well, look, I'm going to tell you: just yesterday students from an association called S'ha Final! , who put a tent at the Autonomous University of Barcelona to promote an act on Europe that will take place tomorrow, could not celebrate..., and could not be in that tent quietly, in their right of freedom of expression, in their right of freedom of thought, because radical people, radical students, did not leave them. Not only did they not leave them, but they also hit them, and there was no security, and those students had to call teachers to come and help them, because they were scared. How is it possible that, in a Catalonia, a region of the European Union, one cannot speak freely at a Catalan public university? How is that possible? It's just that surely something complicated, something very serious is happening in Catalonia. [[applause]] And you're not solving or protecting those people who think differently than you. And I'll send you a very strong hug from here. Actually, if we weren't here, a lot of us would be here right now at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, and I really hope that we can talk about Europe with peace and without being attacked, as happened just yesterday. A very strong hug, it's over! [[applause]] And teachers who were there to help these students. Miri..., Europe has to rely on all values; if one is missing, it doesn't work. You did not answer me if you are going to assume responsibilities for the whole issue of lack of transparency, for all the money wasted on measly, and it was not precisely to make Europe, it was not precisely to postulate for a strengthening of those European values, but it was simply to impose your separatist ideology and to plan a secession process. You... or you, in particular, have not answered this question. Will they take responsibility? Are they going to return the money that has been spent on such secession planning? Look, we believe that reforming Spain is building Europe. We believe that early warning mechanisms could have been put in place, which are also mechanisms in other areas of the European Union and which would have served to control much more what you were doing from the separatist offices, from Diplomat, with the American lobbies, which is still time for you to come face-to-face to Parliament and tell the truth not only on this side of the chamber. [[the speaker assigns the right sector of the hemisphere]] , but for all Catalans, and also for the rest of the Spanish, because I believe that this is a matter for all Spanish citizens and therefore also for European citizens. We believe that if these early warning mechanisms had been established, perhaps even on 6 and 7 September, the illegal referendum of 1 October, which has done so much damage to a great many Catalans, could have been avoided in one way or another. It is time that transparency..., has to be an engine also to boost those European values, also respect for the rule of law, and transparency is also a way for citizens to trust their representatives more...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.210.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.211.0	...in a Europe of peace. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.212.0	Thank you. Finally, the reply by the advisor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.213.0	That I have made it clear that we condemn all aggressive conduct, all of it, come from where I come; we condemn it. And, therefore, also a hug to all victims of any aggression, to all. And a very strong hug too – let's say it today, because I think I should say it – to thirty people who have been accused of voting. [[Greetings.]] They were talking about democracy; they are accused of this, imagine's! Let's face it, you've assumed that they're already guilty, because you've appeared here before and before, that the prosecutors present their charges, and let's not say the sentence, you've already considered that everything that you say that report, that everything there is true and that, therefore, whatever it is, so we have to defend it here as if it were true, proven and sentenced. And it's not like that. We've made quite a few suggestions, 189 in concrete, and therefore, I'm listening here to the presumption of innocence, perhaps in this chamber too, we've kept it present from time to time, haven't we? Miri, returning to Europe, the real threat to Europe, today, unfortunately, assembles to the real threat that struck Europe in the first half of the 20th century, unfortunately – unfortunately. And now, just as there was then, there was, therefore, an increase in the number of fascist movements, today we find ourselves with an increase in Euroscepticism, accompanied by intolerance and the extreme right. And you, therefore, do not seem to have made everything clear, do not seem to threaten you neither the scares, nor the weights, nor prevent them from doing things. For example, what they did in 2009: 2009 came to the European elections of the extreme right of Libertas, Libertas party, clearly from the extreme right. And when they asked their leader, Albert Rivera, why they were presenting with these people, his answer was: "When you put that amount of money on the table, you ask yourself. So vagina laying down itself, because it's not smart and, above all, it's not in defense of the European phonenal values that we talked about before. The president of your European group, Guy Verhofstadt, doesn't – it doesn't – warn them seriously of the flirtation you were holding with another extreme right-wing party, huh? That's the Vox party. All these warnings from your group leader to Europeanism, you go and form government with the support of Vox to Andalusia, huh? Therefore, this Europeanist approach to me is very strange, I find it very strange and, listened to, more taking into account that Vox is now working to form a coalition with anti-European parties and parties of ultradrareta, led by the Lliga, but also with AFD, of Germany, with the Danish People's Party, the National Regroupement, the European People's Party of Viktor Orbán, the Freedom and Democracy Party, the Polish PiS, etc. You mean, this big coalition with his friends and his partners in Andalusia doesn't bother them? Doesn't it make them think that maybe this Europe that you claimed and that we defend with much conviction you don't defend it with conviction and with the clarity that would be warm? An organization that is clearly deviating from European values and from which you have no problem with the arm, and which has already done so in Andalusia and which, if at any time, will also do so after the Spanish elections. You'll see. Listen, you can't go with people who think that immigrants, therefore, attack and threaten our borders; that they bet on the creation of walls; that they bet on the subordination of the woman to the man abrogating laws of gender equality; a force that opposes multiculturalism, alleging that will destroy Europe, multiculturalism, diversity, plurality! You and your Vox partners really are the real threat to the European project. If there is a danger for Europe, it is you and your allies. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.214.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the quality of the area]] [[300-00121/12]] The next question is about the quality of the area. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the inquiry was made by the deputy Antoni Morral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.215.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs who still resist these hours here, councillor–welcome–, councillors, after an inquiry charged with electoral intent, may seem a little prosaic that comes to talk to them about my inquiry on such an intangible subject, but at times also as transcendent as the quality of the area that we all citizens, voters of all parties, breathe. So, this will surely be the part, let's say, most electoral of my message, eh? In fact, the conurbation of Barcelona, because of its population density, and also because of the activity that in this part of our geography, therefore, is developed in the industrial land, is the geographical area of the country where the highest contamination indexes of Catalonia are concentrated, often, on time, with episodes that are worrying. Aware of this problem and with the aim of associating the objectives of the European Union and the indicators of the World Health Organization, the institutions of the Barcelona conurbation – the municipalities, the Metropolitan Area, the parliament, the Barcelona Assembly itself and the Government of the Generality – so two years ago they celebrated a summit to address precisely this conflict, this problem, the contamination of the area, which clearly affects the health of people and in many cases causes premature mortality. Therefore, it is a subject of great importance, it is a subject of general interest. For what it does to this summit two years ago, therefore, it has been established some objectives, some reptes, some obligations that the different administrations have put in deures, that two years later, at the summit that has been celebrated a few days ago, the second in this case, it has taken stock of those objectives and, at the same time, also of the reptes to be addressed in the future. In this sense, it is necessary to manifest, therefore, the success of the initiative. In other words, cooperation between administrations and shared governance are certainly very positive ways of dealing with a problem that is also shared by different administrations. Therefore, this, the shared governance cooperation formula to address issues that are also shared by different administrations, is an extremely useful tool, as demonstrated in this case. In fact, the objectives and dues that 2007 was set from the table, so there were not enough; there were 1,046 actions, of which the level of completion of these in two years was very high: 69,4_per_cent, 795, that is, about 70_per_cent of the actions. Therefore, in the first place, put in value the initiative and celebrate, let us say, the interest and the willingness of all these local administrations of the Barcelona conurbation, first and second crown, that in fact the urban entremat, therefore, of the area of Barcelona is coming from the municipalities of Mataró, Granollers, Sabadell, Terrassa, Vilanova, Martorell... This serious, let us say, from here to Barcelona, the most densely populated part and on this subject, therefore, affects in a more important way. Therefore, we want to value the fact of cooperation to address a matter that is strategic, which affects not only the environment and climate change for which it does the gases of winter-life effect, but also, above all, the salvation of people. Also fill in the importance of the work that has been done during this period. In fact, today we can know, thanks to the technology and the work developed, in real time, what is the state of the quality of the area we breathe, through the web or through an app. Therefore, this is an important element not only for knowledge, but also for the pedagogy to do respect a question of this transcendence. And why is this area the most worrying aspect of air quality? Basically, the cause is not mobility; therefore, the mobility system. Therefore, the measures which, in some ways, are addressed at the back to address the future are mainly focused on the themes of mobility. And here are the proposals that need to be filled in at this latest summit, that are very ambitious and that surely require a cooperation effort: to establish low-emission zones in the Barcelona round, that structurally they want to set aside from the '1 generation of the year you see; to enable the metropolity register of authorised vehicles adapting the tools for their implementation; to draft the compromise of the government and the councillor, that today accompany us here, for the law of quality of the Catalan area, that strengthens and supports the municipal action, and also the supramunicipal action; to implement in a concerted way the actions of each administration of the area, making the distribution, say, of which is the responsibility of each administration; to create a group of cooperation in the form of the execution of the execution of the execution of the execution of the execution. They're important reps these two years. At the summit, too, something that is transcendent was put into the replenishment, because all administrations can place as much interest as possible in making the objects possible, which is the participation of the State. The State has specific skills, therefore, to approach or to help and cooperate, let's say, at this point, and that it complements its skills or that, if not, it transposes them, such as, for example, reviewing the tax policy on fuels, encouraging the purchase of contaminating vehicles, applying rebates on tolls of state competence to vehicles of smaller emissions, calling for economic aid for the renewal of vehicles, especially in professional goods vehicles, implementing a 4_per_cent reduced VAT on the purchase of electric vehicles, making legal changes in relation to the systems required for the charging of electric vehicle boats. These are the powers of the State that were good that also applied, cooperating, let's say, with the administrations of the country to take a qualitative step in the better quality of the area. In fact, counselor, he has advanced in things but we are still..., I don't know if it's long or near, it will also depend on the efforts that we continue to make collectively in these own times, to approach or to settle what are the requirements of the European Union, and those that also make the World Health Organization. In this sense, three questions that I think are important and that we would like to be able to answer. First, the fact of the exercise of cooperation between the municipalities, this one which has been placed in the march in which the two summits are. It seems important to us, therefore, to coordinate municipal action and all institutions in order to cope with a challenge of this magnitude. This space, you think it can be and should be, let's just say..., can we take a qualitative step closer than it is also a shared management space, not just a department, let's say, of the responsibilities of each administration? And the second thing is... we'll see how essential it is to take restrictive measures for what it does to circulation. And that, without any doubt, is also an element of conflict, so with the existing system. Therefore, of change, of deep change. In this mark, therefore, of profound change is also made of all essential pedagogy, communication, dialogue, negotiation. And in this sense, of all the measures, therefore, that are in the portfolio of carrying in these two years, we believe that it is important that there is a planning, also, for everything that refers to the pedagogy and the dialog, to the negotiation, to put in the march in a pedagogical way the new systems because it sees their positivity in the change. All these elements we think are important. And have you predicted, let's say, to push them into the mark of the proposal that has been developed, of work? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And the third and last aspect...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.216.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.217.0	...what is the level of cooperation with the State for which it does the competitions that are its own? What's the part of the participation, then, that's claimed to the State...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.218.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.219.0	...to cooperate on the reptes that have been raised there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.220.0	Thank you. For the answer, it's the counselor's turn. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.221.0	Thank you, President. Mr Toni Morral, I would like to thank you for your inquiry, the inquiry by the Junts Group for Catalonia, I would like to thank you for your words, and, in fact, I would like to thank you for bringing this matter back to Parliament, as important as the quality of the area, especially the Barcelona conurbation, beyond the metropolitan area, to the conurbation, to the metropolitan region of Barcelona. This is an important issue in which we are making a lot of efforts from the Department of Territories and Sustainability; obviously, from the Environment and Sustainability Secretariat, also from the Infrastructure Secretariat, as well as from the Environment and Sustainability Secretariat, as you yourself have said, there are mobility infrastructures that effectively compromise the quality of the area, and also from the Urban Housing Secretariat, because, in short, it is from the territorial planning that we end up determining where we live, where there has been economic activity and the mobility that is generated. But not only from the Department of Territory, but also, therefore, in collaboration with other departments, the Department of Interior, for all that makes reference to the management of mobility, the Department of Health or the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge. We believe that the importance of promoting public policies, the best possible public policies, which allow us to have a clean air for the citizens of this country, especially in the metropolitan region. Since the Generality, I will explain it all the way, trying to answer your questions, we have developed a good number of initiatives, but this statement does not mean that we have to continue working, along with cophoism, along with self-complacency, this is a government that governs, that it does not meet its responsibilities, and in the same way that we can find that in the two years since we have worked valiantly thinking on measures, implementing them, we also admit that effectively there is work left, work left to do, that there is no good work done, I insist, for satisfaction. The evolution of air quality is good, but it is still insufficient. All the way, I insist, along with cophoism, we go in the right direction. In these terms it was in those words that we expressed ourselves precisely in this Second Air Quality Summit that you quoted in your intervention, the second, which we celebrated the Palau de Pedralbes, at the end of the first year or two, which encouraged the legitimate councillor of Territory and Sustainability, friend Josep Rull. In that first summit we took a series of accords, a series of accords that were left, therefore, framed in a set of actions, and, in this second summit we have repeated; we have carried out a dialect exercise, in concert, with the remaining Catalan administrations, with the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, with the Assembly of Barcelona, with the deputy, with each of the assemblies of this area, forty, and we believe it to be humbly - that this has allowed us to see the results, which is noted, therefore, these government actions. Because the quality of the area does not include administrative borders either between municipalities or between areas of Catalonia or with Europe. This finding obliges us to join forces. We must join efforts to reduce – we already said at the first summit – at least 10 per cent of road transport, in five years, and 30 per cent of emissions, in fifteen years, take reference in 2016. That's what we said at the first summit and that we repeat at this second summit. We would obviously like to thank the cooperation, complicity and support, before I have mentioned, of the departments of the Government of the Generality that have helped us to deal with this second summit, finally, with a very high list of what has been, therefore, a dialogue and concertation of nine measures. Coordination and cooperation, these have been the key elements for the results achieved so far, but we insist that we must continue to work on the basis of self-completion. It is a compromise, therefore, that we actually have to take among all, at the personal level and obviously also at the administrative level. The summit, this second summit on 25 April, served to agree on what we called an institutional declaration, a declaration that can, therefore, also read on the website of the department, which reverses these ideas that I have briefly mentioned to you. And it is clear that we have acted because the European Commission is here today. With the failure, with the possible failure of the directive. We don't deny that. But we also believe, and I want to underline, that we do not only do so because of the threat of sanctions, that there is, not only for the metropolitan area of Barcelona, but also because of other areas of the Spanish State, but also because of other metropolitan areas of Europe, but also because, more than that, I insist, of this threat of sanctions, we have convinced, fully convinced, that all the changes we propose, especially the relation to mobility, as a fundamental element of this quality of the area, are suitable for the quality of life for the citizens, for the salvation of the citizenry and, in short, for a better social cohesion. That's what we do primarily for our citizens. We want to donate some data. 70_percent of the consensual measures already at the first summit, for all Catalan administrations, at that first summit, have gone to term, 70_percent, eh? , among others, protocols to activate restrictions in cases..., restrictions of mobility, in cases of environmental episodes, or even point already to structural restrictions from the '1 of generation of 2020. There are positive trends, in mobility, that support this line of action that we are doing, and that also support us in front of the European Commission, with controls that we regularly pass. The use of public transport increases; the past year we first surpassed the xifra of 1,000_million journeys. The vehicles that are on the market are every time cleaner, and we want this to actually take advantage of the level of environmentalisation of the fleets of our country's mobile park. Public transport usage figures, already in the year 2019, are also good: we have increased the 5_per_cent respect, eh? In the year-to-year period of the past, 173 million trips we're carrying from the year, and that's a lot of trips. Therefore, we believe that effectively this year 2019 will again be a milestone, so let's hope so. Data, quality indexes. The latest data from 2018 indicate that the most problematic atmospheric contaminants..., the nitrogen dioxide is dropping; in the last decade, the exceedances of the limits of this contaminant have been reduced by the so-called stations that were surpassing at the time these average indexes over the indexes marked by the European Union to two, two stations, which are in the districts of Grace and the Eixample; two representative stations of which is an urban fabric, an intense transit situation. But this obviously we want..., not only do we want, we have to make it reverse: we have to have zero stations incomplete or exceeding the average limits. It means that from 2015 until now, even if we are prepared, we have not had environmental episodes and, therefore, we have not applied these restrictions for which we are prepared, but in any case we insist that we are prepared. We have announced – and I have also reported some of the measures we want to take forward – that we will present – you asked – within a year the draft law of the quality of the area; we will establish in this draft law, among others, everything that refers to the regulation of the low-emission zones, because the metropolitan municipalities, in any case, of all Catalonia, but especially the metropolitans, can adapt their regulations, their ordinances to the establishment of these low-emission zones. They will help us regulate mobility, implement restrictions and, therefore, greatly improve the quality of the area. We are working to present the preliminary draft of this law of quality of the area to the better. And since we are talking about low-emission zones, you were actually quoting, from the 1st generation of 2020, these restrictions for which we were prepared will already be structural, definitive, in the intra-round zone. That's it. In these areas it is necessary that the municipalities directly affected, that is, those in this area of emissions, modify their ordinances to make it possible. We are talking about a modification of the ordinances of the Assembly of Barcelona, the one of the Hospitallet, the one of Cornellà, the one of Esplugues and also that of Sant Adrià de Besòs. They must amend the ordinances to regulate, therefore, various types of legislation before the end of the year, because this area of intra-round emissions actually remains effective. We are sure that with these permanent restrictions we will complete all the stations, as well as the missing two. It will be thanks to these measures that we are practically sure that we will complete all the stations. And you were also quoting the Metropolity Register of Stranger Vehicles, which we would throw in front of; we would further strengthen public transport – all that the premise allows us, obviously –; we would expand the connection parks, these famous parks and rides; we would install more and better signification to make it easier to access this space; we would push forward changes in traffic management, etc. And we will continue to encourage this coordination between the different Catalan administrations. In fact, this is an issue that is always important for European administrations when we go to explain to us. They see the high degree of concertation between Catalan administrations. That's what they're putting it in favor of. And, therefore, we also avoid sanctions for this coordinated action. But we were also very firm before the state's failings. Indeed, there are some skills that are necessary to have a good quality of the area that do not depend on us, depend on the State. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] In the statement of the second summit we related them and we would continue as the government demanded them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.222.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.223.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-10-2901.224.0	All right. So – there are no more points to deal with today – we suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
