ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.1.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Let us resume the session with the continuation of the debate on the general political orientation of the Government. [[Discussion on the general political orientation of the Government (continuation)]] [[255-00008/12]] We shall then proceed to the presentation of the motions for resolutions which follow the debate and, in the end, we shall vote on these motions for resolutions. I remind you, for the vote, that Mr Raül Romeva has appointed Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise his parliamentary rights. For the defence of the motions for resolutions tabled, there is a turn of action for a maximum of two minutes for each parliamentary group and five subgroups. And this return begins, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.2.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, second act of the general policy debate. Yesterday we had the first, a debate in which the Government spoke very little about the problems that Catalans have and, instead, turned it into a tribute to the separatist prisoners, in an allegation in defense of those who have been investigated and detained by the Civil Guard, with accusations of terrorism, and they again pulled out the mantra of "Spain steals from us. You yesterday, from this atrium, called again to disobedience, called again to confrontation, to contempt of laws, and no one cut off their microphone. At least my partner was cut off. Here we listened as you called the political adversaries fairies and did not cut the microphone, but, instead, by mentioning their commands, they did silence some of our comrades. Spain and the Spanish could be insulted, but we could not warn of the public danger that we consider their Government to represent. You are presented to this general policy debate without a budget, you have not been able to approve a budget when it comes to the last few years, without project and without laws. As we have told you on more than one occasion, this government does not represent anyone at all, and that is the worst thing that can happen to a leader. Because you don't work for families in Catalonia who don't get to the end of the month; you don't work for those who are looking for a job, whether or not you are independent, for the self-employed, or for companies who have had to leave because of their policies; you don't work for those who wait on eternal waiting lists or sitting in the cold corridor of a hospital; you neither work nor represent those officials who are harassing and pressing while cutting their labor rights, or the entire promotions of students who have had to study in barracks in Catalonia in the years of their government. You warm the streets in autumn, but forget to warm the homes of those who suffer from energy poverty in winter. As we have said, you do not rule for them, you rule against them. You do not pursue the general interest, you pursue the self-interest, your interests. You squander taxes, you squander the money of these people in continuing to stir up a process that we already see that goes into the dead and leads, on the other hand, to radicalisation. Because you, in Catalonia, represent only the most radical within independence, because you are the ones who allow there to be spies in schools, you identify those who put an anthem; you represent those who fine for labeling in Catalan; you also represent those who promote boycotts to businesses, you represent those who point to those businesses; you represent – and this is very well – the living people and the plugs in their process, and you represent those who cut down the streets, you represent those who burn tires, those who stop the train tracks, while the others try to go to work. You allow judges and prosecutors to be threatened here, you allow journalists to be assaulted and you also represent very well those who sing to you « pim, pam, pum a la Guardia Civil, more than anything because you have members of your parties in those demonstrations. And they represent all this because their policies not only do not condemn these practices, their policies justify them, accompany them and sometimes even subsidize them. Therefore, des de Citizens can do nothing but oppose us today, as we have done all these years, frontally, without headquarters, to their policies. And, on the other hand, continue to propose, continue to propose because we do care about all the problems that I mentioned to you before all those people, whether they vote for us or not and think like us or think differently. And on these two major axes we are going to base the proposals that my group puts forward in this debate. We put forward proposals to improve the quality of life of older people; we put forward a package of social proposals, aimed at ending the inaction and social disprotection of this government; we want them to finally legislate and deploy all those laws that have stopped and that so many social problems carry in Catalonia; to fight against child poverty, which affects one_of_each_four children, and yesterday they did not even mention it, in the president's debate, and also to deploy laws to stop the Machist aggressions and, also with the attacks on the LGBTI collective. And, of course, proposals in health, proposals in education and proposals in safety, because we want transparency and a reduction in waiting lists, both in primary care and in hospitals. But we also want to ensure free education and equal opportunities for education. We want there to be a plan to end these barracks, and now we've moved on to another phase, because the barracks is at best. He told Mr. Torra that he was visiting a school on the first day of class in Cornellà, and that everything was going in perfect normality. If I had visited it in other municipalities, for example, in mine, in Santa Coloma de Gramenet, I would have seen how not even those modules arrive on time on the first day of the course. It is already sad to have to study in modules so that they do not arrive on the first day of the course. But do you know what comes in time? Subsidies, subsidies to entities that spy on our children at school, those that do arrive on time and are not delayed. [[Greetings.]] And what doesn't arrive in time is the police force on the streets of our cities. Because, while Mr. Torra fills the facades of public buildings with yellow ties, we have already told them sometimes how many neighbors have to hang red handkerchiefs to divert the attention of drug traffickers. While you're shielding Mr. Torra's Praetorian guard, you're missing troops on the street. While in Catalonia the anthem of Spain is identified, the criminals and the carteristas camp out wide in the street in the face of their inaction. We also wanted to mention our frontal opposition to the policies of this Government. That is why we were going to present a motion for a resolution to condemn terrorism, also to end the policy of harassing and driving companies away, to end language fines, and measures to ensure that judges and prosecutors in Catalonia do not continue to be harassed, also along with proposals to finally have independent public media. Yesterday we listened to Mr Torra with a special interest in digital policies, something that had never attracted the attention of this government. And this is because as we have already warned, right, Mr. Puignero? , the blow; the next blow will be in digital version, and you ratify it with your words. Look: "Digital tools will be fundamental to persist in the Catalan nation until the day it is able to control the physical territory. It could have been signed by Napoleon, Mr. Puignero. Therefore, in the face of this threat of digital coup, we will also ask today to audit the CTiTI and to audit the Cesicat, two entities that are more opaque than the accounts of the Pujol clan, to set an example that we all understand. We want technology to be put at the service of Catalans and not, as you do, against Catalans. We also want to safeguard your personal data. As you can see, there are many motions for resolutions aimed at the citizens of Catalonia and at confronting their coup plans. Because you announce confrontation again against the state, and we, here, what do we announce? Again, the request for the application of Article 155 in Catalonia. You announce it openly, so do we. Yes, yes, we asked and reiterated ourselves. And we also ask that when the sentences to those who struck democracy in Catalonia are resolved, the Democrats accept that sentence, that there are no amnesties or insults. [[Greetings.]] And let's look very carefully when the lights turn on to see what the Socialist Party votes here, which one day says one thing and the next, the other. Because, look, your incompetence has become clear in this debate, but this week you have also made your irresponsibility clear. You've crossed all the red lines, you've crossed the last frontier. You have criminalized judges and prosecutors, you have criminalized security forces and bodies to defend people accused of terrorism. And they defended them only because they were independentists. Because we already know that, according to their theories, independenceists are beings of light, independenceists cannot commit any kind of crime, and being independenceist is incompatible with being violent. Instead, in his theory, being a constitutionalist is bound to be an oppressor, it is bound to be a violent and, of course, a facha. [[Greetings.]] I think you're going to make a more ridiculous, because of the information you're getting out, that many of these people might have been handling explosives. Today they have the last chance to escape that ridiculous, by voting for the motion for a resolution put forward by Citizens condemning these acts and condemning terrorism and violence as a way to achieve objectives. Because a responsible leader doesn't stand by those who have explosives. A responsible leader is not taking pictures with Otegi. A responsible leader does not meet with Sinn Féin. And above all, a responsible government would never register in Parliament a proposal as shameful as the one you have registered for the Civil Guard to leave Catalonia. That's what happens to you, everyone who bothers you, you want him to leave Catalonia, but we're staying, we're staying and the Civil Guard is staying. [[Greetings.]] Let them know that this proposal reminds us of the years of lead, the worst years of our democracy, and that they have chosen a very bad time to present it. We do not have Mr Torra here, but let him be clear that we will continue to defend the rights of Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.3.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.4.0	He was facing a disqualification trial today, but we think he's been disqualified for a long time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.5.0	Congressman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.6.0	...to be president of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Because, as my partner Lorraine said yesterday, it's a public danger.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.7.0	Congressman... time's up. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Eva Granados has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.8.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, advisers, Members and Members, we finish today with the debate and the votes of the motions for resolutions to the general policy orientation debate and, unfortunately, we finish with the conclusion that you continue in the confrontation and that Catalonia continues without government. Continue without government because it is not compatible to confront and govern. Or, as Francesc Marc Álvaro says at his latest book: "The logic of an administration cannot coexist with the rutturist logic of disobedience. That's why we, the Socialists and Forward Units Parliamentary Group, believe it's time to look forward and open a new stage for Catalonia. Because, look, if the government can't do what it wants, which is independence, and the government doesn't want to do what it can, what it is to govern the country to move it forward, with social cohesion and as a people's sun, the best they can do is to fold and call elections. And they don't want to rule, we saw it yesterday, when the president almost abhors himself explaining his alleged government work, and we also saw it today with the presentation of proposals for resolution of groups supporting the government and in the negotiations we had with the government this morning. We have tried to trade – the socialists always do – in childhood policies, in education, in equality... I, of course, if all is left in the verbs of "promote, "promote, "priority, then they do vote for it. But if it's about parties and compromises, there's a tank of boxes like what we had in August by Mr. Aragonès. We believe that you are a government lacking credibility and, after a debate that we have had in my parliamentary group, we have come to the conclusion that we are tired of accompanying you in votes that have been approved here unanimously, in which everyone agrees, the whole Chamber, but that we vote, approve, passes the term of execution and the Government does not, and the Government does not execute, and the Government does not govern. So we are tired, and so there will be motions for resolutions in which we agree with what you are saying, because we have proposed it ourselves and because we have voted against it forty times, but this time we are abstaining or directly voting against it. [[Some applause.]] And what do we offer Catalonia from the Socialist Party, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress? We offer dialogue and good governance. Dialog with the law to the hand, because we think we need to make a dialog to get an agreement and then take a vote on that agreement. This is our way of hearing it, and this is the responsibility we have here, each and every one of us. We do not take away this responsibility: our obligation is to reach agreements here, and the agreements to which the vote will be put here. We... our goal is that we don't divide each other any more, and that we become a people's sun again is our priority. Catalonia has undergone a process that has divided the parties and society into two: the people of one bloc vote only the parties of..., and those of the other bloc, only those of the other bloc. Even though they don't vote for independence anymore: like they're mine, they vote. And in societies divided by identity themes there is also a competition in every half to see who is purer; the sounds, you know? Unfortunately, society is fragmented, fractured, and divided for generations. That's the risk we have. This is the process, this is the real process that is going to Catalonia: this split by half between Catalans and Catalans. So, the absolute priority of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance is that Catalonia becomes a cohesive society, and that is why the motion for a resolution we are taking today to vote speaks of respect for the law, speaks of the dialogue between Catalans, Catalonia ends, and each and every one of us here knows, that there is no other solution: we come to agreements between ourselves and then we vote on these agreements. Yesterday President Torra asked us how much democracy we are willing to endure. And we give it to Mr. Torra: "Mr. Torra, democracy is respect for the law. And he also said to us: "What does he do for them? Remember? The president, who said to us: "What is he doing to them? And we tell them that what they do to us is divide and fracture, that this goes deeper into our country when they know that this process is not going to take place. And so we will vote 'not on all motions for resolutions that do not propose dialogue and solutions within the law. We will vote against all those who have to deal with the confrontation, and demand that they gather ours. And, coming out of the process... We said: "The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Forward we propose a dialect from the law and we also propose good governance. And it is that Catalonia needs a government that respects the laws and institutions, but especially the citizenry, and that looks like pulling back into the country. And our motions for resolutions are the alternative to your disgovernment. From respect, with the will of agreement, as we do at the gatherings, as our mayors and our mayors do, as we do at the congress: peace and agreement with everyone for the common good. We are the only ones – and in Miquel Iceta, the president of my group, said « all partners – that we have reached agreements with all and each of the groups that conform to this chamber. We are the only ones who know what to do and also know how to do it. We bring a positive, constructive leadership; we have already done so, we continue to do so where we govern with pacts, very different but all to advance folds. Look, our resolutions were meant to divide them into three blocks. I think we're the only ones who know what to do to guarantee Catalonia equal opportunities. Yesterday the president of my group, Mr.Iceta, spoke and underlined in his intervention the importance of English learning, speaking of English learning as equal opportunities: the dominance of English at these times is an essential factor for joining the world of work. We are very happy to have introduced this topic into the public debate and hope that our proposal will be approved. The same goes for us with the Catalonia Education Law: we approved it, but you don't apply it. We need this percentage of GDP to be devoted to education and not dedicated to it, to devote it to inclusive school, to children's education, to put the six-hour period back into public school – which was there before – and to attend to high complexity. And, mirin, another example of agreement: the Socialist Parliamentary Group agreed to the Law of Vocational Training and stayed there. We know how to push it forward, because even though it's not important for you, for many students and many workers in our country, it is. We pass the same with Treball, we pass the same with culture, a mobilized sector and that in a full route that we propose to them, as there is an economic compromise, no longer want to raise it: another missed opportunity. And the same goes for us with Territories, because equal opportunities are also shared by all of Catalonia: to unpopulated Catalonia as if you were coming, but also a sector as strategic as agriculture and a branch that we have to make viable and sustainable. We are also the only ones we can agree on so that our economic development is now reinforced by the economic transition and the economy of knowledge. Yesterday Miquel Iceta also posed, underscoring, what he has to see with facing the ecological transition; well, with declarations we will do nothing: we need to develop renewable energies, delimit areas of low emissions, make an energetic renovation of buildings... Proud of words, and calm facts. We have the same thing with public universities: many times we have approved it, we have the university community also compromised with this theme, we take it to the vote... We have the same thing with Eurecat: Eurecat is a technological centre that needs to be approached once and for all the search for companies and it is not yet happening. And last but not least: we also pose above the political table to ensure social cohesion. Yesterday in your speech, you were talking about the spoli, and now you're saying that we have fantastic public services. And then, of course, that's a little incompatible, isn't it? Because if the weight was what you say we wouldn't have the public service we have. We prefer to refer to what the tax balances say and say that, roughly, we pay for income and we pay for the population. What about renewing the financing model? Come on, I'm counting on us. But it turns out you're seeing that maybe they don't want it anymore. Because I have seen that in the proposal for the resolution of the commons, this understanding of the future of the great consensuses, the renewal of the financing system has fallen. It is seen that we no longer want to be supportive or have just financing. We're sorry. We know what needs to be done in terms of dependence, childhood, gender-based violence, public health – Catalan sanitation needs multi-year planning – and before the verbs "to push, "to prioritize, we know how to do it: we know how to deploy laws, decrees, we know how to mobilize resources. And I end up, in these thirty seconds that I'm left, putting in value the transaction that we've come to on poor energy. We hope that the Government will continue to push for the deployment of the law and ensure that neither locals nor vulnerable families will be responsible for the debt of the sub-administrative companies: neither the historical debt nor the future debt. Eventually, we came to the deal on a subject that the local authorities asked the Generalitat to ask for. I'm done. We want a new stage for Catalonia, we want elections. The fight between the partners seems to make it impossible, and once more the partisan interest passes over the interest of all Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.9.0	Thank you, Mrs. Granados. Next is the turn of the Catalonian group in Comú Podemos, and has the word of Congresswoman Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.10.0	Thank you very much. Good afternoon to everyone, deputies, deputies. Yesterday I think we had an aggress debate, a difficult debate, where the ability of the different political groups to make constructive proposals was clearly left in question – some more than others, still to be said. Surely it was one of those episodes that did not exactly contribute to the fact that the citizenry is more interested in what goes on between the institutions. Now we should see if we are able, with the different proposals that have been put forward, to work from now on for this entity of future that goes through Catalonia – and, why not? , Spain, also – from the blockade, from the paralysis: from the paralysis of the government of Mr. Torra and from the non-government of Mr. Sánchez. Let's see if we are able to work and do the work for which they have chosen us: some – and some – to rule; the rest, to oppose; all working to agree and get out of the blocking situation in which we are and who pays all the city. In this Parliament, the governing groups do not have a majority; neither did Mr Sánchez. And when you don't have an absolute majority to rule, so dialogue and agreement isn't an option, it's a deure, it's an obligation that seems a few don't take into account. Calling elections because you don't know how to rule, because you don't know how to make assumptions, because you don't know how to agree, it's like the least cowardly, and I'm sure it's irresponsible. The citizens, the people of the street, what they need are policies that guarantee social rights, public services that work, and to this the institutions neither of Catalonia nor of the State are giving answer. Neither Mr. Sánchez's Government nor Mr. Torra's Government nor Mr. Aragones's have set these priorities forward; what has been set forward are party priorities. That's why the PSOE preferred to go to some elections instead of making a coalition government that guarantees progressive public policies; now we find that the Party of Socialists of Catalonia also wants elections in Catalonia... we don't know why they should be asked. We, in change, from Catalonia to Comú Pueblo, insist on the responsibility of this government, which has this president, to present assumptions, to govern. But if they're not closed this year either, then it's obvious that the elections will be quite inevitable. But now we ask them: they govern, negotiate, reach agreements, but they don't ask in white. What we are presenting in this general policy debate and what we have already presented in different motions and resolutions that have been approved in this Parliament – and which, as Mrs Granados said, has not been a case of what has been approved – are honest, basic, responsible proposals that are essential to get out of the crisis in which we are serving social services and to get out of the retail era: to make fiscal policies fair and redistributive, for feminist policies, for policies that deal with the causes of climate change. They are not limited to placing pieces or making empty statements of contents. The general policy debate should serve to bring here, to debate, and to make proposals on the issues that people are talking about in the street, for which people are fighting in the street, such as the democratic exceptionality, such as the freedom of prisoners and political pressures and the defence of rights and freedoms, but also the denunciations and families that suffer from poor energy, male violence and feminist struggles that fight it from the street [[some applause]] , the defense of the rights of animals, and put aside at a time those spectacles that mistreat them; for this reason we propose the prohibition of slips. [[Some applause.]] Also – also – the fight for the protection of public servants, and for this reason also put an end to the Aragonese law, which opens the door to privatizations. That's also a street debacle. But, indeed, this debate is again taking place in a context of political and democratic exceptionality, political judicialization and protest criminalization. The solution for this situation – we have said it many times – does not go through 155, or unilaterality, or to engage independent leaders for their ideas, nor to wipe out morning doors, scare children and arrest people accused of terrorism almost without evidence on the table. Above all – above all – it is not because of the irresponsibility to use the victims of terrorism to unleash hatred and conflict against political opponents. Using the pain of ETA victims, using the images of ETA victims in this Ple to make a political debate and confront is a red line that Ciutadans should never have passed. [[Greetings.]] From Catalonia to Comú We can reject it with all the strength: we will never find ourselves in his struggle and in his hatred. The solution, as we have said, goes through the freedom of entrepreneurs; this we must all be clear: a democratic solution only passes because everyone is on the street and because everyone can be here to have this debate and to build the joint solution. This is why we propose a broad front that gives an effective answer to the sentence: we work in pleas for freedom of prisoners and political prisoners, but because it is as soon as possible, through all the legal and political mechanisms that we have in our grasp, it is an amnesty, it is an pardon, it is a reform of the Criminal Code. In the sacralization of the way, we do not expel the way. For the freedom of prisoners and political prisoners, they will always find us working there: amnesty, yes, also, but not only; we do not tank our doors, we seek those that are also most effective and can be more viable and immediate. And for that, we also insist very much, that above all strengthen the alliances, expand the alliances. Because the proposals made by the independence groups of this chamber have sought the unity of independence, yes, but they have not sought to expand this response. And one thing is clear: neither amnesty, nor indult, nor reform of the Criminal Code will be possible if we do not extend the alliances to the rest of the State and, above all, if we do not stop undermining those forces that throughout the conflict in Catalonia have defended the rights and freedoms of the people of Catalonia. We don't put everyone in the same cyst; not everyone is the same as the rest of the State. [[Some applause.]] In addition to the democratic exceptionality, we believe that the situation that Catalonia sees..., which this debate must give answer to three emergencies: the feminist, the climate and the social. We can't give out this situation that we're living without assumptions and policies that we're putting in place. Yesterday it was said that it would be a decree to deal with the climate emergency, let's hope that it is true this time that it sets up as a front, because of the decrees made to deal with the emergency, we have not had a few. Mr Calvet himself said, a few days ago, that we must take into account the concept of climate justice, that climate change does not affect the most disadvantaged. Totally fine. Do you know what that's like? With green taxation: that those who have the most pay more; that businesses that pollute the most pay more. With sanctions, with taxes. That contaminating is so important, so that I don't care to do it, as is currently the case. Big companies need to get out a lot to contaminate, but we also need to change the product model and the consumption model. It is not just an energetic transition of fossil fuels now making plates or wind plants, which also generate a lot of environmental impact. No, no, We're changing the energy model, the product model, and the consumption model to decline. Let the measures not harm the working classes; let them participate in all this. We protect the Catalan pagery and its multinationals... – I'm sorry – and their production before the multinationals of food. We also practiced food sovereignty. They're already staying... the counselor, and then they'll put me down somewhere. We shield you public servants, and we shield the workers and the workers. We stop the Aragonese law, we don't come public servants to the highest bidder. We respond to the 1,500 people waiting for habitation. What do women do when there are denunciations? The president spoke yesterday of the defense of civil and political rights, we understand that also those of people who want to put up with a denunciation and find themselves with the tips of the Mossos. And don't say it's a matter of executing court directives, because what they do and how they do it is also a matter of political will. That's why we want the Mosses to stop being in the service of speculating businesses and real estate and defending vulnerable families. [[Some applause.]] We plant faces of multinationals. We talked about poor energy and curiously agreed with the governing groups and the Socialist Party of Catalonia. Yes, it is up to the debtor to accumulate the families, but who has to pay for it are the businesses, which have multi-millionaire benefits, not the public administrations. It's not worth a 50-50, it's a 100_percent of the debt, the one that has to take over the businesses, that have to guarantee the energetic dignity of the families. I wanted to make a quick answer to some of the things that have called for attention to the proposals put forward. The deputies and deputies of Ciutadans, we have already said how difficult it seems to us what they did yesterday with terrorism; other proposals are interesting. In particular, he deserves to be involved in masculinist rapes. We have already said, it must be very difficult to present this proposal and then meet with its Vox government partners and the PP in Madrid. I don't know what face they'll look at after the scene we saw at the demonstration of the late victim of male violence. From the groups of the Government we will also abstain in many things, because they are insufficient, because they are not complete, because they are proposals of the least. Interestingly, Republican Left in some cases has put forward proposals as if they were not government, but opposition. It seems to us as the least curiosity between the logic of what this government does. We insist, we work for a society that opposes climate change; at the climate emergency, we work for this climate emergency that works for the freedoms of all, for the return of prisoners and political prisoners to their homes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.11.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.12.0	... but above all also for a fair and cross-cutting society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.13.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the Member of the House of Commons has the word Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.14.0	Good afternoon, everyone. In the last few days and weeks, we give time and time again to what will be the answer of the democrats, the institutions and the popular movement to the feeling against self-determination, and perhaps while we are doing so, we don't give but the State and all its apparatus, those who control the times, the communication media, the parties, the pressure and the hands, have already begun to prepare the land for surprise, to justify everything, to justify the unjustifiable. Twenty-three September, don't forget this date, the day the Spanish State began to make public the sentence. Before they know the feeling, if there's no violence, they make it up. Before they know the feeling, if there's no proof, they manipulate them. Before I know the sentence, if there's no guilt, they sentence them without judgment. Before they know the feeling, they prepare the land and lay all the meat in the grail. And for that it was not quite unbearable, there is one who passes the foolish presumption of innocence and it is a whole revolution: « Violent independence! And it's a strong embolism. They are dedicated to building false and manipulated stories about Catalonia and to threatening us criminally if we dared to speak, to speak and to debate, the lords of Ciutadans and the lords of the PSC. And there's no bad cop without good cop. Mr. Iceta, you're not an expert. The PSC is the guarantor of the dialogue, but it also adds to the prohibitions on parliamentary debate, it adds to the violation of the presumption of innocence, they are the spokespersons of the policy threat. Yes, we have to recognize it, Mr. Iceta, it does it with a much nicer way, perhaps with a more constructive way; now, you are looking for the same: to shield the Spanish unit and to shield the privileges of the old. Can or can't I talk about everything, Mr. Iceta? Can we talk in this room about the right to self-determination? You've entered the register you can't. It said that the State prepares the announcement of the sentences and does so with repression, with seven companies closed three days ago in calabuses, in political mode of operation with pre-election intention and presence. A warning to the mobilizations that will come, to the mobilizations that will come. And so we find that instead of talking about the general political and social situation, we are talking about political exceptionality, repression. In short, the details of civil liberties and rights. What an irony that because of the action they say we're only talking about the monotheme here, we can't speak honestly and on the basis of everything that concerns us, and that's what we want to do with our proposals. First, we propose a great political agreement for self-determination, amnesty and the civil and political rights that apply to everyone – and when I say everyone, I want to say everyone – around great consensus on the exercise of self-determination, amnesty and phonenal rights. Because, effectively, discussing self-determination and independence is an issue that matters, which is our obligation to enable us to talk and decide among all. And what else do we propose the CUP - Crida Constituent? A set of proposals for a radical model change, a radical change in the public policies of the Junts Government for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana. Of course, fourteen motions for resolutions do not give a chance to talk about everything, but they do serve us to convey to the government a clear message, and we will link it to the question that President Torra asked us yesterday. "What exactly separates us? Or, at least, what has separated us so far exactly? First, urgent, clear, separates its repressive policy: thousands of cases under its government. They don't just reprimand the government and Spanish institutions, Mr. Torra. Thousands of activists have been stunned and prosecuted for their police. Are the Mosses also prepared for the sentence? Yesterday, at the gates of Parliament, they identified companies from the platform against the Aragonese law. What, you can't protest against your government? What exactly separates us, Mr. Torra? So, the Aragonese law. It separates us a lot, a lot, years of distance. We make a statement to the totality of the trading country model, and this goes through some ownership services and managed and provided one hundred_per_cent publics. You say it's an anti-florentine law, but you know perfectly well that this is a lie. We suggest you make an armor law in the public sector. By the way, with what alliances do you intend to approve this law? With the PSC, Citizens or the PP? Well, we're also very much separated from their territorial and environmental policies. Mr. Calvet's obstinacy for the C-32, the obstinacy for the Olympic games as well. We agreed to a consultation related to the veins and veins of the Pyrenees, asking date and question. It separates us from the privileges of a few. It separates us that we are anti-capitalists, but, calmly, the proposals we make today are like very social-democratic. And if they don't vote, their motives must hold. In any case, here we are and here they will find us proposing a proposal, from general interest, concrete and achievable, proposing a radical model change, as I said, to deal with the disorientation on the exercise of the right to self-determination, to deal with the growth of inequalities. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, president, one_second – and in order to face the climate crisis and to guarantee the right to protest. Therefore, self-determination, amnesty, sovereignty, social, civil and political rights, because we do not resolve the conflict with the State without accentuating the rupture with the political and economic class of the franchise. Let's hope it's what separates us and what unites us. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.15.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. Next is the turn of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word the deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.16.0	Thank you, President. President of the Generality, Members, Members, Councillors, Councillors, the intervention of the President yesterday in the general policy debate aroused various emotions: confrontation, already known, confrontation. An important part of your debate was confrontational. Greuges, continuous heaviness, laughter again. No self-criticism, again too. No criticism of violent activities, this surprise us a little, we believe you have been the right opportunity to be able to criticise certain violent attitudes, which are not directly aroused by independence, but as a consequence of the action of independence. And then I'll talk about it one more time. But I think there are two elements that I want to highlight in this intervention today – two –: fiction and taranna. And if I may, I'll start with the second, the taranna. And it is that in the intervention of the president in yesterday's debate we detected a tarann that did not please us, with certain authoritarian tics, certainly authoritarian, right? [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, you'll certainly be authoritarian, President. And, fixed's, yesterday itself– yesterday itself– the president of the lower chamber of the United States announcing the impeachment against President Donald Trump made use of some expressions that we have repeatedly served here and not by chance expect the president of the Parliament to make them serve. But I'd like to put it in the record, wouldn't I? And it is: "No one is by the law's side, we are all the same by the law's side. And yesterday you gave the sentence – yesterday you gave the sentence. And they do it all the time. And the motions for resolutions put forward by the groups that support the government dictate judgment. And that's what we're worried about. Because you said: "It is the burial of Montesquieu. Indeed, you have buried Montesquieu. But he was buried on September 7th with the approval of the Transitional Law, in which all the judicial power of Catalonia rests with the President of the Generality. And that's what reminded us yesterday of his intervention, the willingness to take away from the power to execute the judiciary as well. And that worries us. But there's one element that's fiction. The fictional one because, basically, the whole story is based on the right to self-determination. And, look, let me tell you, there's no right to self-determination of the recognizable people. [[Widow's remorse.]] The strange ones? So, it's not strange, it's not my words; it's the words of Quim Torra the year 2012 in an act of the National Assembly of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]] That's what you said. And yesterday you gave us all the opposite. And everything that explains to us here is based on the right to self-determination, which you said seven years ago that you're not recognizable. And what causes it is deception, and the continuous deception that causes it is frustration and frustration many times, unfortunately, ends in violence. And we've seen it this week – we've seen it this week. And you have lost the opportunity to condemn those who, in the name of independence that you defend, try to do so through violent lives. They still have the opportunity today to do so. Do it – do it. But since you don't like this, you're causing everyone who doesn't think like you. Yes, that's what a member of the CDR said when they were protesting against the arrests of those who had attacked with explosion and with the will to make an attempt. Yeah. And you, the parliamentary groups that support the government, materialize it with a motion for a resolution in which they say: "We are outside the Civil Guard, which is ours. So no, all of our support for the Civil Guard, the National Police and the Squadron Mosses, which you want to get your hands on – from the political point of view – and we will not allow it. Finally, the Ciutadans Group proposes to us the application of Article 155. But, look, today there is a difference with respect to the year 2007, when, by the way, you yourselves say that applying Article 155 is killing flies at canonades. There is a ruling from the Constitutional Court today that this article cannot be applied in a preventive manner. And we understand that you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.17.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.18.0	I'm done, President. I'll give you 30 seconds. We understand that you distrust the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol. We also distrust the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, but we have alternatives. Look, since you don't like this from Spain Suma, and, in fact, they're hosting secretaries of organization from the Basque Country..., we propose you to join the Senate in your own elections, because if we have the majority and apply 155, it won't shake our hand. But if it can't be that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.19.0	Congressman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.20.0	...ask them to exercise as the first opposition party, as the party that won the elections... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Caula has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.22.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. It's all for sale, too. I would like to speak today of limits; there are not many and very types, they can be economic, moral, ethical, and above all remembering yesterday's debate, where you go past a few. Let's talk about economics. We are co-responsible in parliamentary work, seriousness and rigour, especially in the economic and presuppositional fields. We have a joint reflection and probably an update of the Rules, which before any proposal, and above all of the high presuppositional impact, such as today's vote, there is a co-responsibility, not just thinking about everything we want to spend, which we would probably agree on in many respects, but also how it is paid. Although we may not like each other, it is well known that resources are finite and who governs must prioritize and be honest in what can be promised and what cannot be done. Lock it up. The other day we listened to a joint interview with Councillor Bargalló, Councillor Vergés and Councillor El Homrani. They manage 70_percent of the Generality's premise, ambitions on the bet and it shows that social environments are the most charged and priority areas of this government. Above all, if we do an analysis of their PRs, more often than not in an election program, half of them are summarized very quickly: unabsorbable presuppositional impact. Caldria double what we have, we'd probably need a 140_percent of the presupposition. Where do we betray him? Will they approve of us? So insurmountable are the proposals made to us today, presumably speaking, as they were from the monographic past of childhood. Value: 10.392_million euros. This is all the assumptions of Salutation, the double that the assumptions of Education and the triple that the assumptions of Afers Socials. Unsustainable. And you know it. What is really acceptable is the economic proposal. And I'm already getting ahead of myself, that I'm starting to listen to this rum-rum that's always on the Ciutadans bench: "And the embassies, what? External Relations, 2017: 18_millions. A 0.17_per_cent of these 10,000_millions that were devolved to the monogram of childhood. We don't even have it for blowjobs. He was talking to the iniquitous, too, about who's the moral shield of what's right. Sadness, concern and indignation at the same time, feelings that come out when you read the PR of repression and some of the different parliamentary groups. Of the follies. Long mass. We'd have to ask each other what's going on. There is no conceptual rhetoric this time, only points and points of complaint of what should be an inherent right, a descriptive PR, a hard and raw list of the relay of human, civil and political rights that we are patenting. And what's left to come, it's settled. It doesn't look like there's anything left behind. The judicialization of politics does not solve the political problems. Civil Guard doesn't solve political problems. Generating cricket doesn't solve political problems. Some say that the arrests we've seen this week... – first charges: terrorism and rebellion – are commands. We remember that independence has always been characterized as a peaceful, non-violent, civic, constructive, democratic claim. How does that hurt, huh? It complicates their lives so much when they want to criminalize it, when they want to get close to the armed struggle and they don't find any pieces of violence. They are not right and we will not allow independence equal to terrorism. Let's get over it, though. Hold on to them. Let's breathe a little and take perspective again. These arrests, someone has qualified them as navigational alerts. Make a rest of all the keys you've ever touched. First arrests: social leaders, 20-S, Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sànchez, 710 days in prison, first rode to the bow; six hours to see and live on the first day of your son. Humanity? Second arrests: first line of the political class. Tots remember the 'we've decapitated them. Government, 693 days in business, Oriol Junqueras and Quim Forn ; 584, Josep Rull, Dolors Bassa, Raül Romeva, Jordi Turull, without forgetting us from our president, the Carme Forcadell, 552 days in prison. And so, too, this record for the exile's company and companions. And we still have the retina that we've seen in the Supreme Court. Another time in this imaginative report, little evidence, but we start to create « omissive disobedience, « environmental violence... A look of hatred will fit into years of imprisonment. Major disproportion. Second rowed to port. Who are we going for later? Jutjat number 13, High Court of Justice, we split another notice. Third walk to starboard. I'm on it. When the CDRs and the civil society are back to manifest, the fourth marched to the stern. Arrests of Adri and Tamara. Attack on independence from all sides, like this week's pre-emptive arrests. Let's say it overtly: state operation against independence. And I'm sure the wheel of misfortune is already spinning. Where's the next shot going to end? To call all democrats: we must be, we must be all in this cause, it goes further than the political dispute. That's what human rights are about. And up to the political ambition? PSC, consensus capacity on? We see them in the Spanish State recently with only a hegemonic attitude. They don't understand that they still don't have the strength to rule, and they have to reach consensus. And for that, there's a lot to talk about, not just to make you see it. They can't be around people's welfare. The PSOE has put forward statistics and a forecast of having more votes before making a government thinking about better for everyone, inclusive Catalans. And today we'll see another show. We will not vote in the clau« need of the Catalan people, they will vote in the clau« electoral campaign. Electoral campaign already in march, a campaign so aggressive that without any motiu we already felt bells of 155. Attacking the Statute for the Right must be legitimate for you. Now, when the Independenceists arrive, 155, pam! Right-wing partner. And if we are talking about overcoming insurmountable limits, both at the level of political, moral, democratic or ethical ambition, here we find Ciutadans. « Drama would be the word that would define them. They're a big TV drama every time. If we're talking about education, it's sometimes just sitting there and not running out looking for kids at school, because the stage they fakely project is apocalyptic. If we're talking about security... today we're talking about Parliament, we're going out and we're going to Barcelona, attention! , leather straps against the catanas. Drama. And already put to say it very thick, yesterday, Mrs. Arrimadas..., ai, sorry, Mrs. Roldán – it costs sometimes to see 'in the difference– [[remorse of the voice]] , reminded us of the separatist commands. " What did he mean when he told them to squeeze? Do you press the explosives detonator? Drama and have no limits of decency. One's all right. And when you think they've crossed all the limits, they still surprise actions like yesterday. No, don't banalize terrorism. And one more time that our companion told us, the wounds of terrorism are deep. Independence is something very and very different. Do you know who Ciutadans remembers for a while? To the Queen of Hearts of Alice in Wonderland. It all ends with a "who cut off their heads. Everyone who doesn't like them: teachers of IES Palau, « who cut off their heads; the groceries, « who cut off their heads; the independenceist politicians, « who cut off their heads. And to his PR 3, there is no motive, but they demand a 155 foreword; "that they cut off their heads and, already put to do, that we remain without hands and without few. It carries many things that are not good, it runs a Catalanophobia that will lead us all to a bad path. It was not worth seeing the other day in Ricky Rubio, a basketball player who has just been the best of the world, who to greet his parents in català rep a lynx, because he uses a language that should enrich us, which should be plural. I don't think we'd like that. And as I was running out of time and couldn't get any wider, apart from all the PRs I've been trying to put on the table, flag this lilac flag of cross-feminism, the green flag before the emergence of the climate change and the white flag for a net Catalonia of corruption. Because the challenges we face, we look at them face to face, and we urgently need assumptions and the great clear strategic lines to update them. And I finished, President. We put on the table the tools to persist; we will never stop doing it. Freedom, self-determination and independence, amnesty, referendum and the Catalan Republic: this is our time to get a better society for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.23.0	You're out of your mind, Mrs. Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.24.0	A republic that I didn't let anyone back. Political lives and research...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.25.0	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.26.0	...democratic solutions are a possible fact.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.27.0	Ahabi, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.28.0	We put them all in there. He said he was willing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.29.0	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.30.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.31.0	Next, to end this round of defence of the motions for resolutions, it is the turn of MP Gemma Geis, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.32.0	Good afternoon, very honorable President Torra. Counselors, advisors... MPs, MPs, the year 1968 Maria del Mar Bonet and Lluís Sarrahima published a song, censored, but that a generation sang. And this song a few years later another generation we sang: "In the morning they called, they are at the back of the ladder. The mother when she comes out to open wears the inn robe. What do these people want, what morning trick? I quote this song because from September 20, 2017, with the engagement of civilian leaders Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart, we stopped living normally. We also met another petition from the prison attorney's office unconditionally for the arrest of the defendant on Monday. Today's session diary, with these interventions, but also yesterday's, Mrs Roldán, will be the witnesses of this exceptionality and of the continuous growth of some red lines that I believe should never be created in politics. We are independent, because we want a Catalonia of the best in a world of the best. Yesterday we said that we are responsible, that we are concerned, that we commit ourselves to the day-to-day Catalans and Catalans. That's why we decided to make government, with all the limitations, with all the complications, with all the disloyalties of the Spanish government, run the socialists or handle the People's Party. But today we must claim the peaceful, social, democratic character of independence. They've come all the way here. As President Torra said at his conference in Madrid: "How much democracy are they willing to tolerate? You, Mrs Granados, make reference to the law and I ask: in which law does it speak, of the State which currently applies to Catalonia? Which law? – in which law? Since 2012, the world has seen the images that, every year, since the September 11th Day, the most numerous demonstrations worldwide, claiming to vote and defending independence. From the U of October the world saw Catalans and Catalans protecting ballot boxes and papers. We were the rape? It wasn't at the expense of independence. We are peaceful people; we are peaceful people and we do not like to cry out, but we will be respected. A country where respect is..., where you want to silence 80_% of the people who want to vote in referendum. [[Greetings.]] A country that voted independence, a country that voted U d'Octubre – a country that voted U d'Octubre. If you want more data on the reference, call, call a reference. Look, Catalonia is the sum of our differences, but this sum of our differences is our wealth. Mrs Segovia, you refer to honest proposals; we have girls. From Junts for Catalonia our proposals for resolution, the compromise with 0.7 for cooperation, universities, greetings, attention to the great people, perspective of gender, equality, fight against climate change, policies for the municipality, which are cabdals for Junts for Catalonia, direct policies of reversal to the promotion of housing and social logger, policies in infrastructure, in industry. These are our proposals, these are the ones we want to negotiate. And by the way, Members of Parliament and Members of the People's Party, I should like to point out to Mrs Gallardo, you have made a real monogramme of Catalonia, and it turns out that you have not put forward a motion for a resolution that refers to this rural Catalonia, to the territory. I don't know which Catalonia you have, but what I do see is that there is a part of Catalonia that you have missed in your motions for resolution. [[Greetings.]] We are compromised with the citizens, and we know that we have a disloyal state that does not complete with the plugs of millions or with the investments. We ruled the 21st of December because we believed in independence and because we believed that independence is the best social project for Catalonia, and that claim is not clear. Many of the group's proposals we would like to vote on, but they cannot, because we do not have sufficient resources to vote on them. And Mr. Pedro Sánchez... you, Mrs. Granados, ugly reference to the party interests. And what's the interest behind the blockage of the beasts? Electoral interests and party interests of Mr. Sánchez, and these also affect citizens. And you don't think we have to do boxing. That's cynicism, a lot of cynicism. We have a suffocating fiscal deficit, a constitutional court that falls and paralyzes laws like climate change. To the companies and companies of the CUP, we will abstain in one of their proposals. You refer to your proposals for a resolution to recover this sovereignty, you managed it from resources. We share that objective. Surely, in the application of this object is where we provide you with assurance of the table to dialogue and see how we can share this object, as we can apply it to practice. Therefore, we will abstain in many of the proposals that you have put forward. From Junts per Catalunya we have presented three motions for resolutions, which are important pillars for us. The first, language, such as identity and social cohesion, continue to struggle for recognition of Europe and continue to fight because language is a European and world heritage. Also reaffirm the model of linguistic immersion at our school. A single proposal for a resolution focuses on the compromise to get some assumptions for the next year, because the last assumptions approved by the government of President Puigdemont, and we have seen how this year with extended assumptions we have increased social spending by 1,000_million euros, in social parties. And here too, a reflection: we want to highlight the cross-cutting of the social policies of all the councils. Accessing a degree or a master's degree at a public university is also a social policy. That from any municipality in Catalonia it is possible to lie down... and can have optical fiber is also a social policy, because it affects rural Catalonia, affects the Catalonia of work and affects the productive economy. That is why we are presenting this motion for a resolution. And the third, a balanced country, with territories..., with equal opportunities throughout the territory, with diversification to the economy, in the occupation of people, in territorial dynamism to avoid rural depopulation, and a relationship of equality between the territory and the municipalities and the Government of the Generality. But beyond these pillars, there are also times when the compromise has to be clear and firm, and that is why we will vote in favour of Mrs Roldán's reprobation, and today they are asking exactly why you were born: the dissolution of this Parliament with the application of 155. That's why you were born, and that's what you're asking, and so are we. We also call for the resignation of the delegate of the Government, Teresa Cunillera, for the arrests due to the diluns, for the violation of the fundamental rights. Every second we see more violations of the fundamental rights and more violations of the guarantee rights. We also understand the withdrawal of the effects of the Civil Guard, but not because they are the Civil Guard, but because they act, without control, with clearly intimidating forms. This does not guarantee the freedom of citizens. That does create insecurity. More pillars than they defend. We give full support to President Torra and to the decision to keep the banner of freedom prisoners and political exiles. The judicialization of politics and the decisions taken by the courts, courts and prosecutors make it clear that there has been political reprisals. We are living different political judgments as the October U and many open cases in which there is no guarantee of an impartial court, in which they keep you in prison because you are independent and have been a farce of judgment. The only fair feeling is absolution. We did the U of October and have a political mandate that links us, which is the Catalan Republic, but it also links us to the dialog to find a political solution. We will not let empty people fall, we will not call elections for a rapporteur, and we will always remain faithful to the inalienable right of the people of Catalonia to self-determination and to the will to exercise it fully. And finally, of German justice we didn't know anything about the media, we only knew it about the judicial resolutions: freedom. Because voting isn't a crime. From Spain's justice, we've known all about it through communication media. That is why, loud and clear, we demand the release of prisoners and prisoners, the release of exiles and the abandonment of all judicial cases. [[Greetings.]] Why? Because independence is civic, peaceful and democratic. And if the sentence is conviction, we will work for a solution to the political conflict. And if we talk about an amnesty, this will be the result of a political agreement, an agreement that opened a process of resolving the conflict. If the sentence is a condemnation, they will have a unitary response, from institutions, from respect, from guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of speech, but we will also call for the exercise of the rights of speech, expression, mobilization and protest. I'm done. Do you know what they want, these people? We know what these people want, badly, but we also know what we want, and it's the independence of this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.33.0	Thank you, Mrs. Geis. [[Miquel Iceta and Llorens ask to speak.]] Tell me, Mr. Iceta, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.34.0	So, Mr. President... of the deputy spokesman of the UPC.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.35.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.36.0	Very briefly, and with no desire to widen a debate. But, look, I think a lot of us are in favour of trying to respect it, that there is a dialog, and, above all, what we need to do is not push each other for a pendant that is impossible. It can't be said that you're not a democrat who doesn't think with us. This leads to totalitarianism. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.37.0	The debate is over, so let's proceed... [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Sánchez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.38.0	Well, for Mr. Iceta's allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.39.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.40.0	Understood. I don't say that you, in concrete terms, are not democratized. I ask you: is it possible or is it not possible to talk about everything? Have you submitted to the register that the CUP cannot submit a motion for a resolution to talk about self-determination, yes or no? Can or can't I talk about everything, Mr. Iceta? And I don't think he's offended. You lead the government of prisons, repression, article 155, law bite, non-derogation of foreign law, etc. [[Miquel Iceta and Llorens ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.41.0	I, the last one, eh, Mr. Iceta? Because we're not going into a debate right now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.42.0	President, and I will – and I think the chamber will be a witness – only answer to two things raised by the Member. One, remember that we arrest them, in Catalonia, they depend on the Generalitat [[remorse of the voice]] And, point two, remember that we have said that it is not possible to vote again in Parliament a law that has been annulled by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.43.0	All right, let's get to the vote. According to the Rules, we will vote first on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance, we will vote after... [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.]] No, Mrs. Sanchez, there you go. They've already entered a debate. Now we won't follow, if you ask me the word for allusions. So let's get to the vote. We shall vote first, in the first place, as we have said, on the motions for resolutions by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, we shall vote on the rest of the motions for resolutions in order to be entered in the register, and, finally, we shall vote on the compromise proposals. [[Pause.]] We first vote on the motion for a resolution No. 1 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution No. 1 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar was rejected by 21 votes to 68, with 44 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 2 was rejected by 25 votes to 99, with 8 abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 3. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 3 was adopted by 132 votes to one, with no abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 4. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 4 was adopted by 69 votes to 64, with 64 abstentions. And now we are voting on motion for resolution No. 5. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 5 was adopted by 65 votes in favour, against and 68 abstentions. And now we're voting number six. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 6 was adopted by 65 votes to 64, with 4 abstentions. As resolution number 7 has been negotiated, we will vote on it at the end with the rest of the compromises. Let us now vote on the motion for resolution No. 8 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 8 was adopted by 69 votes to 63 with 63 abstentions. And we are now voting on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 9 was adopted by 69 votes to 64, with no abstentions. And we are now voting on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 10 was adopted by 69 votes to 64, with no abstentions. And now we vote on number 11. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 11 was rejected by 57 votes to 64, with 12 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 12. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 12 was adopted by 129 votes to none, with 4 abstentions. And we are now voting on Motion for a resolution No. 13. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution was adopted by 125 votes to none, with 8 abstentions. And now let's vote on number 14. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 14 was adopted by 93 votes in favour, with 40 abstentions. And we are now voting on Motion for a resolution No 15. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 15 was adopted by 69 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution number 16. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 121 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. And we are now voting on Motion for a resolution No 17. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 17 votes to 68, with 48 abstentions. And we're voting now at 18. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes to 64, with no abstentions. And we're voting now at 19. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 98 votes to 35, with no abstentions. And we're voting now at 20. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The 20th – the 20th. Motion for a resolution No. 20 was adopted by 60 votes to four, with 67 abstentions. And we are voting now on the motions for resolutions of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. We are voting for resolution number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 72 votes to 38, with 21 abstentions. And we are now voting on motion for resolution No. 2, from which I am sure that point c has been withdrawn. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 64 votes to 60, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting number three now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 63 votes to 17, with 52 abstentions. Let's now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent. We are voting for resolution number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 67 votes to 29, with 35 abstentions and no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes to 57, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting number three now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 57 against and 64 abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 4. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 4 was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 121 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting number five. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 121 against and no abstentions. And we are now voting on Motion for a resolution No. 6. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 6 was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 121 against and no abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 7. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 7 was rejected by 12 votes to 57, with 64 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on number 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 12 votes to 22, with 99 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 9 was rejected by 12 votes to 121, with no abstentions. And we are now voting on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 10 was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 120 against and no abstentions. And we are now voting on Motion for a resolution No. 11. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 11 was adopted by 69 votes to 64, with 64 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 12. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 12 was rejected by 4 votes to 86, with 43 abstentions. As resolution No. 13 has been negotiated, we will vote on it at the end of the day. Let's now vote for number 14. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 57 against and 63 abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Let's start with motion for resolution number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 76, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 76, with no abstentions. And we're voting number three now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 93 against and 36 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 76, with 17 abstentions. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 93 with no abstentions. And we are now voting on Motion for a resolution No. 6. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 6 was rejected by 4 votes to 76, with 53 abstentions. And we're voting number seven now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 65 votes to 67, with no abstentions. And we now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 76, with 17 abstentions. And now we're voting number 9. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 9_has been rejected by 21 votes to 75, with 37 abstentions. And we are now voting on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 10 was rejected by 40 votes to 68, with 25 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 11. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 11 was rejected by 40 votes to 64, with 29 abstentions. And now we vote on number 12. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 12 was rejected by 4 votes to 93, with 36 abstentions. We now vote on number 13. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 75, with 17 abstentions. We now vote on 14, with the correction of inclusive errors, relating to the content of the letter c. The vote on resolution No. 14 of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia begins. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 14 was adopted by 85 votes to 8, with 40 abstentions. We shall continue to vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Let's start with the first one. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 1 was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 2 was adopted by 76 votes to 57, with no abstentions. And we're voting number three now. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 3 was adopted by 68 votes to 65, with 65 abstentions. We now vote on the motions for resolutions presented jointly by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group Republicà and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. The vote on the motion for a resolution No. 1 tabled for these three parliamentary groups begins. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes to 57, with 8 abstentions. And we now vote on the motion for a resolution presented jointly for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote on the first of the motions for resolutions tabled jointly by these two parliamentary groups begins. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 72 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes to 57, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting number three now. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 3 was adopted by 68 votes to 57, with 8 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 64 votes to 57, with 12 abstentions. And we vote on number 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 75 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 77 votes to 56, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 7 was adopted by 76 votes to 53, with 4 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on number 8. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 8 was adopted by 112 votes to 21, with 21 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 80 votes in favour, against and 53 abstentions. Motion for a resolution No. 10, we shall vote on it further, including the correction of errors submitted. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution was adopted by 64 votes to 16, with 53 abstentions. And we are now voting on Motion for a resolution No. 11. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 11 was adopted by 64 votes to 69, with 69 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 12. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 12 was adopted by 63 votes to 53, with 16 abstentions. And we are now voting on Motion for a resolution No. 13. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 64 votes to four, with 65 abstentions. We're voting now at 14. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 64 votes to 53, with 16 abstentions. We now vote on number 15. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 63 votes to 69, with 69 abstentions. And now we're voting number 16. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 63 votes to 53, with 16 abstentions. We're voting on number 17. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 64 votes to 56, with 12 abstentions. We're voting now at 18. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. And now we vote on number 19. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 19 was adopted by 73 votes to 56, with 4 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on number 20. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 20 was adopted by 76 votes to 53, with 4 abstentions. And now we're going to vote for number 21. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 21 was adopted by 67 votes to 17, with 48 abstentions. Let us now move on to resolution No. 23, since 22_has been negotiated and we will vote on it at the end. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 108 votes to 25, with 25 abstentions. And let us now vote on resolution No. 24. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 24 was adopted by 114 votes to 17, with no abstentions. We're voting number 25 now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 104 votes to 21, with 8 abstentions. We now vote on resolution No. 25... The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Twenty-i-sis, I'm sorry – 26. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes to 61, with 4 abstentions. We're voting now for number 27. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution was adopted by 72 votes to 57, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on number 28. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution 28 was adopted by 116 votes to 17, with no abstentions. We're voting number 29. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 109 votes to 21, with 21 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 31, because 30 has been negotiated and we will vote on it at the end. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes to 57, with 8 abstentions. And we are now voting on resolution No. 32. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 32 was adopted by 65 votes to 56, with 8 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution 33. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution was adopted by 63 votes to 57, with 12 abstentions. Vote, now, the proposals... [[Carles Riera Albert asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Riera. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.44.0	Thank you, President. In a few moments, we will know the official confirmation that we will already have seven prisoners and political pressures, for the repression of the State... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.45.0	Yes, Mr. Riera, I ask you to tell me why you ask me the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.46.0	...to confirm that there will be unconditional judicial decisions. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.47.0	Tell me what I'm asking for, Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.48.0	He asks for the word because we think that this fact requires an institutional response. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.49.0	Mr. Riera, let's do one thing. Let's finish the votes and then...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.50.0	And if you let me finish, President. If you let it end, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.51.0	So, tell me what you're asking for the word... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.52.0	... a temporary suspension of the plenary and an urgent call by the Board of Spokesmen to agree between the parliamentary groups on the institutional response that this fact requires.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.53.0	Mr. Riera...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.54.0	I have already anticipated that, for what he does to the Parliamentary Group of the CUP, we cannot normalize institutional life...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.55.0	Mr. Riera, all right...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.56.0	... in a situation of democratic exceptionality and repression. And, therefore, we...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.57.0	Mr. Riera, all right...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.58.0	...we'll leave the Ple.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.59.0	Mr. Riera... Mr. Riera, you don't have the word. [[The president removes the microphone's use from the speaker.]] As long as we can't suspend votes for a start, we just... [[Widow's remorse.]] Only a few motions for resolutions need to be voted on, then, if the parliamentary groups so wish, we will do this Board of Spokesmen. Let's finish now, the votes and then we'll have this request from the Spokesman's Board. [[The deputies of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent abandon the Session Hall.]] Keep going. [[Widow's remorse.]] We vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.60.0	Yes, President. To request the reading of motion for resolution No. 10, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.61.0	The number... did you miss it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It did. Okay. All right. We shall read the motion for a resolution number 10 just before its vote. Let us now vote on resolution No. 1. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution No. 1 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Possão was adopted by 70 votes to 57, with no abstentions. And we are now voting on motion for resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 8 votes in favour, 102 against and 18 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 71 votes to 57, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 88 votes to 36, with 4 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution was rejected by 9 votes to 40, with 77 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 63, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 7 was adopted by 71 votes to 57, with no abstentions. And we now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 8 was rejected by 8 votes to 99, with 21 abstentions. And we are now voting on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 9 has been rejected by 8 votes in favour, 92 against, 28 abstentions and one Member present who has not voted. We are now voting on resolution 10. Before we do, though, we'll read it. So, ask the secretary first that you read. Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.62.0	« Motion for a resolution 10. Catalonia's front in the defense of the animal's rights. An advanced society is also the one that protects animals from abuse, guarantees them the welfare and recognizes them as being sensitive to pain and suffering. Almost a decade after the abolition of Braus races in Catalonia, it is necessary to give a step and to put aside the slide and all kinds of shows with bumps. The later events of Glasses, where a man managed to escape from the square and was shot down in pieces after wounding many people, put into evidence the perilousness of these practices both for people and for animals. The Catalonian Parliament urges the Government to make the necessary changes in the regulation of traditional wild parties and animal protection regulations, because it ceases to be an exception in legislation, with the objective that the different ways of correlating are no longer celebrating Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.63.0	Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 50 votes to 17, with 61 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 11, including the correction of errors. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 8 votes in favour, 83 against and 36 abstentions. And we now vote on resolution No. 12. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 128 votes to none, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 13, including the corrections to the errors submitted, eh? Let's vote for... [[Albert Batet i Canadell asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.64.0	There's a constant problem with a deputy who doesn't get a vote, huh? We should see if there's a technical problem...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.65.0	Anyway... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Doesn't it work? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? Okay. We're still voting, so. Let us now proceed to the vote on motion for resolution No. 13. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 13 was adopted by 88 votes to 8, with 32 abstentions. As resolution No. 14 has been negotiated, we will vote on it at the end. We are now voting on resolution No. 15. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 15 was adopted by 128 votes to none, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 16. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution was rejected by 8 votes to 103, with 17 abstentions. We are voting on resolution No 17. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution 17_was adopted by 65 votes in favour, against and 63 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 18, including the correction of errors affecting point No. 2. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 18 was adopted by 71 votes to 21, with 36 abstentions. We now vote on resolution No. 20, as 19_has been negotiated. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 128 votes to none, with no abstentions. Yes, tell me, Mrs. Roldán, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.66.0	Yes, Mr. President. Maybe I've come up with a little bit, but now that our proposals are coming, it's because the reading of proposal number 1 of all points is done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.67.0	Okay. Of the whole motion for resolution number one? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right. We had already voted on the motions for resolutions of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Possão. We are now following those of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. We are voting for resolution number one. Before, however, ask the secretary, Mr Pérez, who reads the motion for a resolution number 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.68.0	'Proposal for a resolution (Doc. The violence of terrorism is incompatible with democracy. The Parliament of Catalonia: one strongly condemns Francoism, fascism and Nazism and any totalitarian movement of the extreme right, as well as of the extreme left, which use coercion, intimidation or any other kind of violence, with the aim of imposing their ideas and states that, under no circumstances can such violence be justified as a legitimate instrument of demand for any idea. Two. It declares that violence and terrorism are not methods of democracy to achieve political ends and proclaims that it is the duty of every Democrat to condemn their use under any circumstances and that it is the duty of the autonomous and national governments to guarantee the rule of law with all the legal tools at their disposal. Three. It notes that the exaltation of political leaders from the terrorist environment and the pact with political organizations that have not condemned terrorism is a laundering of violence and terrorist methods and a denigration of the memory of the victims and their families. Four. It shows its support for the investigations carried out by the State Security Forces and Corpses, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions and the judiciary in defence of the freedom and security of all citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.69.0	Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 71, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 2 was rejected by 40 votes to 72, with 17 abstentions. And now we're voting number three. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 3 was rejected by 40 votes to 89, with no abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 64 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 5 was adopted by 112 votes to 17, with 17 abstentions. And now we're voting number six. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 6 was adopted by 129 votes to none, with no abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 7. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 7 was adopted by 65 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. And now we vote on number 8. The vote begins. The 8th motion for a resolution was rejected by 47 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. And now we vote on number 9. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 9 was adopted by 65 votes to 64, with 64 abstentions. And now we vote on number 10. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 10 was rejected by 40 votes to 64, with 24 abstentions and one Member who did not vote. We now vote on number 11. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 11 was adopted by 65 votes to 64, with no abstentions. And now we vote on number 12. The vote begins. Number 12_has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 72 against and 17 abstentions. We now vote on number 13. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 13 was adopted by 104 votes to 25, with 25 abstentions. And we vote on number 14. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 14 was rejected by 40 votes to 72, with 17 abstentions. And we vote on number 15. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 15 was rejected by 40 votes to 72, with 17 abstentions. We now vote on number 16. The vote begins. Number 16_has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 72 against and 17 abstentions. And now we're voting at 17. The vote begins. Number 17_has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 89 against and no abstentions. We're voting now at 18. The vote begins. The number 18_has been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote for number 19. The vote begins. Number 19_has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 71 against and 17 abstentions. And now we vote on number 20. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 20 was rejected by 40 votes to 71, with 17 abstentions. We now vote on the compromise proposals. In the first place, we vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution No. 14 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão and the proposal No. 13 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent. The vote begins. The compromise resolution was rejected by 8 votes to 121, with no abstentions. And we are voting now on the motion for resolution No. 30 of the Parliamentary Group Joints for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, and the motion for resolution No. 19 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The vote begins. This compromise proposal was adopted by 72 votes to four, with 53 abstentions. Finally, we vote on the motion for resolution No. 22 presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, which was negotiated with No. 7 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The vote begins. This compromise proposal was adopted by 122 votes to 7, with 7 abstentions. [[Gemma Geis and Carreras ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Geis, why ask me the word? [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.70.0	Pursuant to Rule 35.2 of the Rules of Procedure, from the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, also with the agreement of Esquerra Republicana, we believe that it gave the context that occurred today, we would also ask you, and to the emperor of this article, to convene a meeting of spokespersons now that the plenary has ended. Thank you very much. [[Sergi Sabria and Benito ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.71.0	Tell me, Mr. Sabria.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.72.0	Mr. Geis was already advancing this, and given the situation that has occurred, from the beginning, as always, deeper into the violence, it is clear that our political project is only a defence of the pacifism and the ballot box, we call for the convening of a spokesman's meeting to denounce the violence, the forms, the application of the anti-terrorist law to these seven people who have just decreed that they should go to prison, to denounce that in this State there is still a special court, which, in fact, is the very one that at the time led to the arrest of the Jordis, the Government of Catalonia and, therefore, to denounce it from here and demand the convening of a spokesman's meeting.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.73.0	Thank you. [[Greetings. Repeated Crits of "Freedom!]] Say'm, Mr. Carrizosa. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.74.0	Yeah. On a point of order, Mr President. First, that, with regard to the convening of a panel of spokespersons, we would be interested to be told on what precept of the Rules is this call of the panel of spokespersons. And, as the agenda has been completed, we understand that the plenary session is already finished and that it is not appropriate, for a reason that has not been expressed, to convene the Board of Spokespersons. And secondly, with regard to the demonstrations that have been poured out here and the outbreak of protest that we have witnessed, to say the immense shame and shame that this chairman of a parliamentary group feels when he is in a parliament... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.75.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.76.0	... in which persons who, through a judicial decision, have been remanded in prison, allegedly for very serious acts such as attacking all Catalans, are being protected. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Aim, aim...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.77.0	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.78.0	...against the coexistence of all Catalans. And I want to tell you something else: we feel threatened by those who support terrorism. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.79.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.80.0	We feel threatened! [[Greetings. Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.81.0	Mr. Carrizosa, there you are.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.82.0	Shame on the Parliament of Catalonia!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.83.0	The session's coming up... [[Greetings. Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Quiet! Shut up, everybody! Shut up, everybody! Mr. Carrizosa, the cry to order! Mr. Carrizosa... Mr. Iceta, had asked for the word. Mr. Rodriguez, calm down. Mr. Iceta, I had asked for the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.84.0	President, in view of the request of these parliamentary groups to hold a meeting of the Board of Spokesmen, our group is not inconvenient, but we would like to take advantage of this moment to make some considerations at the side of the chamber. The first one. This room should be yours of respect, the rights and freedoms of everyone and, therefore, also that of the presumption of innocence. The second. This chamber, like the country's institution, should at all times avoid collision with other powers. Our right-wing state is based on a separation of powers and I don't think it would be good to enter a confrontational dynamic with one and the other. Third. In view of the civic emotion that can cause judicial decisions like this or other, make a call to serenity, acceptance of the rules of the game, acceptance of legality and institutional order. It's the father of our group...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.85.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.86.0	...and then we'll defend it at the Spokesman's Board. Thank you. [[Greetings. Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.87.0	Say, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.88.0	Yeah, two very fast things. The first, to ask you that the same pulcritus with which you call to order certain groups, when there are expressions of euphoria on the part of others be equally diligent. I think that would work together and help to avoid partiality on the part of your presidency. Secondly, it is clear that we all have the right to the presumption of innocence, just as the Spanish Civil Guard and justice have all the right to preserve their honour as public servants of one of the best democracies in the world, which I claim with all democratic energy here and now! Spain is a great democracy of the world! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.89.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.90.0	A Great Democracy of the World! With great justice! And there is no right!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.91.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.92.0	Of course, they have the right to the presumption of innocence, but also the Civil Guard to their honour and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.93.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Mrs. Segovia. Mr. Carrizosa... Mr. Carrizosa! The cry to order. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The cry to order. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Say'm, Mrs. Segovia. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Carrizosa, the cry to order for the second time; at the third time I... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Carrizosa, the cry to order for the third time; on the fourth time you will have to expel him from the hemisphere. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mrs. Segovia, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.94.0	Yes, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.95.0	Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.96.0	To add to the petition of the summons of this Junta de Portaveus. Also regret the image that is being given from this hemisphere, in general, because I believe that the people who may be seeing us from the street will not really understand what we are doing here giving criticisms, shots to the jails and going out giving shots to the doors, if you can see. The next thing is that we have already said: we believe that there is a situation of democratic exceptionality, that this general policy debate must be able to connect with what is going on in the street, and, to be sure, these arrests and this arrest connect with a good part of the feeling of Catalonian citizenship; therefore, we believe that our duty as parliamentary groups is, as a minimum, to talk to us about the subject. Thank you. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.97.0	Mrs. Segovia, thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Carrizosa... Mr. Carrizosa! I told him if he called him back to order, he'd expel him from the hemicicles. Please, get out of the hemicicle! [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Abandon the hemicicle, please, Mr. Carrizosa... [[Members of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group leave the Session Hall. The strong remorse of the eyes persists.]] Thank you for leaving the hemicicle, Mr. Carrizosa. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.98.0	For a point of order, because I already understand that in these circumstances – I am eliminating the motives – you may be untraceable, but what is not tolerable is that from the Members of Parliament's honor box the Members are incredulous. Therefore, he asks them – he asks them – to take steps to prevent this from happening again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-26-3702.99.0	All right. You're right, Mr. Rodriguez, that you can't comment from the rostrum. We're aiming. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Rodriguez, you don't have the word anymore. We've pointed it out and we'll deal with it in a timely manner too. The session's up.
