ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.1.0	Good morning, let's start the session. The list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is included in the plenary file, and, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, will be replaced this morning as the first item on the agenda of this plenary session. [[Greetings to various new Members]] First of all, I would like to welcome the new Members and Members who today are joining their parliamentary tasks: Mr. Jorge Feijóo and Mr. Mercè Escofet, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group; Mrs. Núria Picas and Mr. José Rodríguez, of the Republican Parliamentary Group; and Mr. Miquel Buch, Mr. Elena Fort, Mr. Josep Puig and Ms. Gloria Freixa, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Welcome all. And I hope you have a lot of luck and a lot of uncertainty in your pocket to the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] In accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, the Member of Parliament Francesc Viaplana, with the permission of his father, has delegated his vote, for this plenary session, to the Member of Parliament Sergi Sabrià, president of the Parliamentary Group Republicà. And so I am sure that Mr Raül Romeva has appointed Mr Sergi Sabrià, chairman of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise his parliamentary rights. [[Ask the Government about actions to strengthen primary care]] [[310-00172/12]] The first point of the order of the day are the questions with oral answer to the Government. The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gemma Espigares, and it is about actions to strengthen primary care. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.2.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, today we want to ask you for primary health care. And we'd like to do it with a normality that we don't live in. We'd like you to be here today, Carme Forcadell. And, instead of being the president of this Parliament, on the day of her birthday they follow her justice to the Supreme and still sleep in Alcalá Meco. [[Greetings.]] And I say that because they are precisely them, the prisoners, the exiles, who every day remind us that, despite the repression that they are living, it is important that governments govern and that governments govern well. And that's why primary health care, which is the gateway to the health care system and which is that care that gives a system of proximity..., which, moreover, each time is more resolute, and, unfortunately, I say it for my own experience, because after visiting the Prat de la Riba CUP, in Lleida, as a Member, so this week I have had to do it as usual, without having to go through a hospital, despite the injuries. Therefore, a primary care that takes care of the professionals, and this has been done by you, with the best of the working conditions of this last year; that improves the equipment, and that thinks about the people. And, besides, we come from an election week, where, for example, I told my city, Lleida, the local consultancies take over part of the Government of the Generality – President, I don't see the time and I don't know... [[Funnel veils]] ; okay – they depend on the wages you pay to the professionals, but they also depend on the parliament, local authorities, and, therefore, on the good understanding that you have had with everyone for the sake of the people sure that, instead of Lleida, with a Republican mayor now, we will continue to have it. And in this sense I would also like to say to him that not only the professionals, not only the equipment, but we also think in the perspective of general that you yesterday also laid down the table and we also think in all this republican governance. And that's why we'd ask the councilwoman to explain to us with more detail what they're doing with primary health care, what the premise is, who are the priorities and, in any case, how they face these own parliamentary months putting primary health care at the center, as she told us on the first day, in her appearance, and how we see that she's doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, has the word "Mrs. Alba Vergés", greeting counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.4.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. MP, MP, MP, so yes, I have said since the first day, primary care is a priority of the Department of Health, it is a priority of the entire Government of the Government of Catalonia, because even the whole population, the healthy population, the population, too, suffer some diagnosis, some malaise, and because primary care must also form part and have country plans, as it does with the National Primary Care Strategy and community health. And we said from the first day that it was a priority, that it would be the backbone of our health system and that we would do the more we could do it and we would do actions of respect. The last action I want to comment on is this Plan of Improvement of the equipment and the resolution of primary care, which provides 30_million euros so that we will make every one of our homes to put our CAPs up to date, to put our installations up to date and above all to put them in agreement with the needs of salvation we have, and therefore giving the professional those necessary tools so that they can work well, in agreement with the needs of citizenship. This plan of improvement will be developed in the next three years, with about 10_million each year, in four large areas. The first, I think, is very important, that it is the acquisition of our sanitary equipment to improve the resolution of primary care. You said it very well; this week you have had a salvation, which could have been solved to the primary attention, because it is resolute. In this case, we will place 127 portable scanners at our country's primary care centres. Evidently, with the training of the adient professionals, who make the primary school much more resolute than it was until now; fan..., avoid referrals to the hospital when it doesn't fall, and therefore this is an obvious improvement in the face of the users of our country. Also small maintenance and conservation reforms of the centers, as necessary when we went for the primary care – and you also did, as the deputy – for our country. And, obviously, the renovation of equipment in the technological field, of telephone stations to serve users very well, such as repositioning of other elements of the structure, repair of air conditioning, boilers, etc., with furniture, which is also available to professionals and users. This is what we do to 380 centers in our country, almost to the totality of primary care centers, that we will have... President, I don't know if the time is this, the one that's close... [[Pause.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.5.0	Time's up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.6.0	So we'll do it in most CAPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.7.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the penalization of the State in the fund allocation of the tax on the income of physical persons for social projects]] [[310-00173/12]] The next question is about the penalization of the State in the fund allocation of the tax on the income of physical persons for social projects. The question is raised, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, by Mrs Noemi Llauradó. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.8.0	Good morning, Counselor. In recent years, a number of studies in the international, state and Catalan fields have demonstrated the growing importance of the third social sector in the development of social policies and also of the fourth pillar of the welfare state. The third Catalan social sector accounts for approximately 1 million people, with 87,000 workers, 367,000 volunteers and 559,000 socies, and, moreover, accounts for 1.3 per cent of Catalan GDP. It is, therefore, a very strong, very large and necessary associative fabric, I would say that it is essential, and that even vulnerable collectivities, people with diverse abilities, women who suffer from male violence, people without home, people who suffer from exclusion, infants, families and a large etcetera. All this makes the Catalan citizenry show its commitment and confidence in these Catalan entities by marking each time more the box of social ends in their statement of income. However, despite the increase in IRPF's replenishment in Catalonia, the Spanish State has kept its contribution to the fund allocation of 0.7_per_cent of the IRPF for Catalan social entities frozen for five years, with only EUR 31_million_i_mig. Besides, we can't know what quantity is returned to Catalonia precisely because the State doesn't publish it and, besides, it doesn't facilitate the data either. What we do know is that with this penalty that the State does to Catalan social entities peril many social projects that are due to the end of this third sector. Therefore, the question, counselor, is: what value in fire, from the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Family, of these contributions made by the Spanish State? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of Mr. Chakir El Homrani, Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.10.0	Thank you, President. Member, Members and Members, as you have said, for the next five years, we are again being penalised for the resources that come for IRPF. Pass what passes, governments that govern in Moncloa, we always end up being penalized, from two lifetimes: a way that is transparent, that is clear, that is to publish the data; that is to publish the data and explain them and, as a minimum, take the consequences of the decisions that are taken. They did not want to publish the data, explain what is returned to each territory and how it is retrieved. And beyond the 20 percent they have reserved as the State, they end up harming us – they end up harming us – and, what is worse, do not harm the Government, do not harm the entities of the social fabric that, as you have said, we have a wide, diverse social fabric, that does a great deal of work, end up harming people, and the most vulnerable people. For the next five years, we're frozen. For five years as a result, the amounts are not supported when the amounts that are received are saved by 0.7_per_cent. For five years as a result, the territory of the State that represents the most entrances for its citizens and citizens, for the involvement of its citizens at the time of marking the ich of 0.7_per_cent, is the territory that is most penalized. 25_percent of IRPF tickets come from Catalan citizens and citizens who mark them and only arrive at 14_per_cent. And it's still more worrying, and it's still more frustrating when they said last year, "We're just here and we don't want to change, but we'll talk about it. And after I don't know how many meetings, how many discussion criteria, end up doing the same as the PP, which is penalizing the vulnerable people of our country, is penalizing our country's associated fabric and is not being transparent and not clearly explaining what resources are coming for the will of the citizens of Catalonia and what resources are being spent for the vulnerable people of our country. We will continue to work to change this situation, but we have been shown that a year of dialogue, a year of finding does not serve anything, because they do the same, and all the governments of the State end up doing the same, which is penalizing our vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.11.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.12.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.13.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the compliment of the strategy for the gathering and inclusion of children and young migrants alone]] [[310-00178/12]] The next question is about the compliment of the strategy for the gathering and inclusion of infants and young migrants..., migrants alone, asks the question – I forgive – on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Marta Ribas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.14.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, when do you intend to comply with Parliament's mandate to deliver the plan of action scheduled and assumed, presumably, with the strategy of gathering and including the young person who emigrates alone? It was approved in a motion from my parliamentary group during the fever, it had one month of terms to deliver it and three have passed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.15.0	To answer, has the word Lord Chakir El Homrani, Counsellor of Work, Social Afers and Families. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.16.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Member. As you know, the Catalan strategy of gathering and including infants and young migrants alone is a step forward; a step forward that has allowed us to have a planning in a complex situation of presuppositional prorogation. We are looking at some of the aspects linked to the strategy, they are aware that we are in limited credence in the Directorate General of Child and Adolescent Care for a situation of presuppositional prorogation. And then I'll explain to you what actions we're developing. And we don't have a problem explaining what actions we're developing and how we're developing them in a_mark where we don't have any assumptions and we have to go putting them on a contingency basis and on a credit generation after a credit we've exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.18.0	All right, counselor. Yeah, look... I even give up asking Parliament to respect it. They ask them to respect the main federations of childhood that fifteen days ago demanded exactly the same: presuppositional realization and of those responsible and calendars of this plan of action. I also remember others of the priorities that asked and in which we agree: resources. Resources to ensure the continuity of the services, because their government, their department of billing, to this Third Sector of which we spoke to the previous question. And they have generated legal and economic insecurity. The claims guarantee continuity in the attention and support to these young people when they have divided years, because, if not, the resources we are devoting are losing efficiency. They are asked to ensure the involvement of all administrations, government departments and community fabric. Still need to improve coordination, especially with the joints. It still needs to be improved, to avoid conflict situations. And, I insist, I am pleased with the mandate to deliver our schedule and presuppositionally gifted. If they don't believe in Parliament, as they do, because they respect the entities in this sector, who are maintaining these services, even with the generality's payments and putting in their resources. I do not want to end, however, without petitioning all parliamentary groups. They ask them to remind their governors, governors and mayors that we all signed the agreement for a responsible debate on immigration and against racism, where, among others, we committed ourselves to addressing the problems that may arise around the migrant fact with responsibility and without contributing to increasing them. Therefore, please, we do not repeat the image of these fifteen days later of the campaign, that between the vehicular protests and the statements of the mayor of Rubí; the use in the campaign of these minors by Mr Maragall in Barcelona; the statements of the leader of the list of the People's Party in Barcelona and the government's payments to the sector we have not given precisely an image neither of responsibility nor of a country that has by principle inclusiveness and cohesion. And with this theme, and as we approach it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.19.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.20.0	... we are defining ourselves with society: with sound and how to be. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.21.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.22.0	Thank you, President. MP, maximum respect for the Parliament. And the question – and I explained it, I tried to explain it – is that if the assumption of the Directorate General for Children and Adolescents has passed the month of May, planning is going to happen and we cannot give these concrete data because they are not real. From here, we're making the effort. We have generated 650 seats since the beginning of 2019. One concern you and I have – and it's one of the differences in our protection system – is that more than 70_percent of the guys and girls who make different years are still in relation to the protection system because of services to be divided into twenty-one years or because of all the services for post-tweets. It's a priority. Just as we have worked and are working around the landing protocol, ahead of time, but with a reality, that the centers must open; with a will also around the CAI, that we are working together with the Barcelona Assembly; with a very specific collaboration with the SOC. This has allowed us, for example, in Maresme, to open two new centres of new opportunities. Here we are making efforts from all walks of life, with the premises of the SOC, with the premises of the DGAIA, with the premises of the Secretary of Immigration, working together with Education, with specific projects with Greeting, and we are fully aware of the effort being made by everyone, especially the entities to pull forward. And that's it. Yesterday, the Government, we re-approved contingency elements so that we can respond to this reality and we will continue to do so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.23.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.24.0	... day rere day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.25.0	The next question is... [[Ask the Government about the linguistic projects of the educational centres]] [[310-00176/12]] ... on the linguistic projects of the educational centres, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.26.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. According to the laws and the different judicial rulings, our educational system has Catalan, Spanish and Aranish as vehicular languages. You know that perfectly well, because, when they have to go to court, there they forget about immersion and claim before the judge that our educational system is actually of linguistic conjunction. That's about the paper, but we all know that in practice that's not the case. So now, moreover... we have announced it repeatedly, but now we can prove it with the linguistic projects center in hand. Yeah, we asked him for the center linguistic projects, he didn't give them to me. Still, my colleagues and I, one by one, searched for them on the three-thousand web pages, analyzed them and then left no choice but to give them to the Assembly for a Bilingual School. And the result of their analyses and of ours are truly devastating: in the vast majority of Catalan schools, not a non-linguistic subject is taught in Spanish. In other words, their inspectors have validated projects that violate the law. Mr Councillor, what steps will you take to ensure that the law is complied with in Catalonia and that Spanish is a language to be used alongside Catalan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.27.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Bargalló, Counsellor of Education. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.28.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Benvolgud, I was already missing Parliament's plenary because of the repeated, continued, insistent and persistent question on the subject which Ple rere Ple. Miri, from Ple Darrer, who spoke about this topic, up to the present, has passed one thing: in the Spanish elections, only seven deputies of the forty-night, of the parties that were against our linguistic model – only seven deputies of the forty-night, of the parties that are against our linguistic model. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.29.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.30.0	Of course, Mr Councillor, but we have more than 1 million Catalan families behind us who voted for us in the elections to Parliament, which is when these things are resolved. Look, you don't comply with the law, and that's why every time families go to court, you lose. But it is a shame that families have to go to court to claim the rights of their children. It's like families have to go to court and claim a pediatrician. His duty as Education Advisor is to guarantee the rights of all students, and he is not doing so. And it is not only that there are no non-linguistic subjects in Spanish, it is also that in 95_per_cent of the centers the extracurricular activities are only in Catalan. And in 98_per_cent of the centers, communications with families are only in Catalan. And, to top it off, we have found such abhorrent phrases in the linguistic projects, and I quote: "Never before the pupil will we speak in Spanish. Shame on you, Counselor! Counselor, you are failing to comply with the laws, and not complying with the laws has consequences, and that you already know perfectly well. So I ask him one more time, because he hasn't answered me. Stop being an analyst of election results and answer: are you committed to compliance with the law in all Catalan schools...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.31.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.32.0	...Spanish is a vehicle language and disappears the...? [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.33.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.34.0	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Miri, honourable Member, our schools are full of legislation – our schools are full of legislation, obviously. Not the one you make up, not the one you want, not the one you can never impose. And the many percentages that they give me come from this report of the self-named "Assembly for a Bilingual School of Catalonia", which, if it were a search job of batting, there would be no guardian but to swallow it. I have not seen, years ago, a methodologically poorly done report; a treatment of data so wrong, and some falsehoods repeat one another, with so much vulgarity and mediocrity. In this report that you endorse, it is a complaint, for example, that our schools celebrate the Catalan traditions. And they pose as an example of this barbarity of Sant Jordi and literary contests. And they find it lacking that traditions of other autonomous communities are not celebrated. I don't know if they're referring to bringing bullfighters to the schools, as is done in some communities in which you govern. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the management of prison services]] [[310-00177/12]] The next question is about the management of the penitentiary services and asks the question, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.36.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mrs. Capella, a few months ago you granted the third degree to Oriol Pujol to get him out of jail, and just a few days ago the prison guard judge revoked this decision. Do you plan to continue insisting on giving privileges to corrupt people?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.37.0	To answer the question, you have the word justicia's counselor, Mrs. Ester Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.38.0	Good morning, everybody. Mrs. Roldán, I was already missing her. Look, no more right or less right than anyone. So we'll do what the law tells us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.39.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.40.0	Yes; Mrs. Capella, Oriol Pujol is convicted of trafficking in influence, for documentary falsity and for cohecho, that is, he is convicted of corruption – for corruption. And you granted him the third degree only after serving fifty-seven days of a two-and-a-half-year prison sentence. I already asked you at that time, and you answered me the same thing you answered me now, and it still seems like a shame to me. You tell me no more rights or less rights for Oriol Pujol. Well, I answer the same thing: no more or less rights for your friends in the process and 3 percent; no more privileges or concessions for your friends in the process and 3 percent, because we are all equal before the law, even if you still don't understand it and go with the politician's notebook, as if it were the impunity notebook. And I don't say it alone. Do you know who says so too? The D.A. says so. Look, be careful because you might be interested. The prosecutor says that giving the third degree to Oriol Pujol is to send a very dangerous message that it comes to delinquent account, that the law is not the same for all, and that it turns out that it is not punished with the same hardness to the criminals who have a high social status, that is, those of the politician's notebook, Mr Pujol, that to the common of the mortals, to the rest of the disadvantaged. And that is precisely why the judge has ordered Pujol's immediate return to prison. However, it seems that you are already looking, for I do not know, these creative ways to jump if this resolution and get out with yours. You will understand, Mrs Capella, that I have to ask you, because the attempt to circumvent judicial decisions and the attempt to interpret the rules at your own will has unfortunately been the focus of your Government and of the previous one. And when you begin to interpret rules, for what you want me to say to you, we start to tremble, because we already know them. So I ask you again: are you going to respect the judge's decision or are we going to have to deal with shame again how you try to evade justice? Are we again going to have to look with shame at how you devote yourselves to favoring your friends in the process and in the 3 percent? You have believed that you are above good and evil, and you continue to insist, you do not learn. But luckily, reality is clumsy and justice is independent. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.41.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.42.0	Well, repeating a lie a thousand times doesn't make it a truth. We'll keep doing what we can do and what we have to do. And I will insist on one question: when you make these claims of this caliber you are not questioning me, politically, you are questioning the public workers, the treatment board of the different prison centers..., to all public workers, when you do this. Miri, the classification of a person deprived of liberty, when up to a prison center, follows some requirements that are governed by the law. Within a maximum of two_months, the treatment board of the prison centre must make a classification. The classification that it does, the classification that it does the treatment board, is an appreciation that the specialists that there are in the different penitentiaries centers make. I insist on this: it's not a political decision, it's a technical decision. And it's true, you can tell me that the prosecutor can appeal, that the court can settle, that the attorneys of the parties can appeal, that the provincial court can appeal, but I give you some data: one_of_each_three initial classifications that make Catalonia are in third degree. The previous year there were 799 initial classifications in third degree of the total of 2,635 initial classifications. That's what they do. Look, I don't question the public workers in my country; you, when you make these statements, you do that. You sweep everything, naps and cols and everything in the same pot, as if this was here, look, Jauja. So it's not. Public workers do their job, and it's a technical decision, it's not a political decision, I'll say it here and where to convince, and, more often than not, it's not a truth. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the results of the change in the Consumer Code]] [[310-00170/12]] The next question, about the results of the modification of the Consumer Code. Asks the question, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Mònica Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.44.0	Thank you, President. Honourable counsel, as you know, the disruptions of food conduct affect Catalonia a 5-per-cent of the adolescent and young population, and an 11-per-cent has risk ducts. Besides, after obesity and asthma, they are the third most vulnerable adolescent women, the most vulnerable between twelve and twenty-four years. Although there is a 70_per_cent recovery rate for affected persons, mortality is at 5_per_cent and the treatment is only four, five years long. The apologia of anorexy and nerve bulimia in the network, is to say, contingencies "for Ana and" for Mia, as they know colloquially, has occurred some of the most relevant risk factors, since the presence of contingencies has increased by 69_per_cent in the later eight years. It was therefore necessary to take decisions to protect the population from these harmful substances, especially infants and young people, and the Executive Council approved on 22 February a decree amending the Code of Consumption of Catalonia, so as to provide the Generality with a legal framework to pursue and sanction messages that promote disruptions such as anorexia and bulimia on the Internet. We are aware that the decree is the result of the consent of all the agents involved in the Dialeg Table for the Prevention of Food Conduct Disorders with the objectives, or, build a positive and healthy body image, with a cos ideal based on health and welfare and not on appearance; two, work in coordination with the sectors to design realistic strategies to prevent these diseases; three, work the debate to society to raise awareness and avoid these problems. It was therefore appropriate to adopt urgent measures of protection and prevention before the potentially harmful information to websites, blogs, social networks, etc., about these disruptions, and the modification of the Consumer Code allows, among other things. Counselor, from Junts to Catalunya we would like to know what is the government's understanding of the results of this change in consumption that I have suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.45.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word "Constellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, is written. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.46.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Indeed, this decree was approved to also terminate the work done in the Dialeg Table to avoid the Food Conduct Disorders. And this decree is to say that it is the first in all of Europe, it is the first in all of Europe that allows to sanction web pages and social networks with this type of content. Therefore: Government of Catalonia, pioneer in this initiative. They also stop the collaborations that have been made not only by the Catalan Consumer Agency, also by the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia and also by the Association against Anorexia and Bulimia – association, obviously, for this type of performance – we also had this decree that gave us legal coverage and we started a series of performances. There have been nine complaints, nine complaints both for what it does to web pages and social networks. In these new complaints, the established procedure has been followed; obviously, there is an inspection service that proves whether the contents are actually punishable, and there is a withdrawal requirement. Here, too, it goes to say that, if you detect these infringements, there is a requirement in the case, for example, of Google, a company that is not installed here but which we have required, in the United States, to withdraw these pages and, obviously, has proceeded to its withdrawal; so, therefore, we celebrate that a local action has also abst international. We still have a retiring web page, which is the one on Automatic ABC Ireland and can become at the end, if it does not compliment the request, that there is a penalty of more than one hundred_ thousand euros. What are we asking for? Own passes. First, we'll modify the Consumer Code to act... now we can only act at the level of food disruptions, we'll also make it possible to act in any type of misleading advertising. We have an interview with Brussels to do... coordinate activities in this area as well. And, obviously, we will continue to penalize and punish as many social networks as web pages, as any type of initiative that promotes this type of disruption so hard for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Catalan teaching of non-literacy adults]] [[310-00171/12]] The next question is about teaching català to non-literate adults. The question is posed, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, by Mr Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.48.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. He will advise, among the many functions of the General Directorate of Linguistic Policy of the department that he directs, among others, to analyze, plan, direct, coordinate and execute the linguistic policy of the Government of Catalonia. It is also necessary to draw up proposals related to the promotion of Catalan language, as well as to develop policies that tend to promote these uses of Catalan language in all areas of society. This function is linked to the function of convoking and properly administering the tests for obtaining the certificates of Catalan knowledge, and, above all, the function of promoting the teaching of Catalan language to the adult population. In order to achieve and develop these functions, recently, from the department, you have presented another important package of actions aimed at strengthening the teaching of català, especially to strengthen oral teaching for non-literacy adults. It's about the course named Ep! Listen and Speak, realized for the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization and for the General Directorate of Linguistic Policy, the director of which, Mrs. Ester Franquesa, mentioned in the presentation that the languages sum up, and that the català was summing the population coming from outside, that made it his own, and that Catalonia is made of diversity – also linguistic – and that the population grows and the need for learning is also ascending, reason for which it is therefore conceived and created this course, Listen and Speak. Listen and talk to them to promote social discourse, social connection, proximity and equality. For what we know, it's either a direct course or a course for people who have difficulty with the language written on the basis of learning or people who still don't understand or speak Catalan or who know only different alphabets from Latin. We would be happy, she would advise, to share with this Parliament other details of this initiative, the places where it is expected to be shared now and until 2020 and other objectives and particularities of this course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.49.0	To answer the word has the Counsellor of Culture, Mrs. Maria Àngela Vilallonga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.50.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. MPs and MPs... "What I consider vital to our culture are the foundations. And the backgrounds are the language. I will never get tired of repeating it, says Mercè Rodoreda, and it's a tweet that I have fixed on the Mercè Rodoreda profile of Twitter, that I started the year 2017, two years ago. It is the will of the Council of Culture, through the Directorate General of Linguistic Policy and the good work done by the Director General that you wanted, Ester Franchesa, and also by this Government, which governs, to apply effective measures to restore Catalan language in all social spheres and with the vitality that surrounds it. The example of the Creus de Sant Jordi with triad personalities this year is not an exhibition. In this sense it is very opportune to expose the appeal that we presented last week, the oral language course of Catalan for adult people not literate Ep! Listen and Speak, prepared for the General Directorate of Linguistic Policy, as you said, and the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization ; a project that gives response to the increase of non-literacy people who want to learn Catalan. The course consists of three modules and already counts with a pilot who completed this course, this school year, to six normalization centres, but 2020 will be integrated with the general training offer of the twenty-two Consorci centres for Linguistic Normalization. It's a pilot who applied to 285 students, and we're very happy about it, and it served the course methodology. The project is designed with pioneering educational techniques based on visogesturality and emphasis on interpersonal relationships and on the emotional basis of learning. Memorization strategies like biting hands, repeating the words various times in high view or talking about traditions and cultural aspects are some of the pedagogical axes of the plan. It's a project that puts the emphasis on the socializing values of language and, therefore, also on the value of... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.51.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you very much. [[Asks the Government about the policy of granting the third degree penitentiary]] [[310-00179/12]] The next question is about the policy of granting the third prison degree, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.52.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Look, since their Department of Justice – they have already asked you before – granted the regime open to Mr Oriol Pujol just after fifty days of serving a prison sentence of two and a half years, and this measure has been revoked by a prison supervisory judge. And I'm asking you the following. Are you going to apply, in law fraud, the Prison Rules to circumvent that revocation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.53.0	To answer, the word has the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.54.0	Good morning, Congresswoman. Well, we don't apply the law fraud stuff. And I repeat another thing, it's not my Department of Justice, but it's the Department of Justice of the Government of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.55.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.56.0	Look, Mrs. Capella, Counsellor, you are applying the Llei of legal transitorietat, no more or less by the back door [[remorse of the voice]] ; that – that –, loud and clear, which you approved on September 8, 2017. Don't get so upset...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.57.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.58.0	...that you voted it so well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.59.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.60.0	That law, which also said that, one, there was no judicial power; two, citizens of Catalonia were thrown out because they were State officials; three, they became foreigners to more than half of Catalan citizenship. That is precisely the one in which you reflected your true impulses: pure anti-democratic. What you have done with Oriol Pujol has been highlighted very well by the prison supervisory judge and the prosecutor's office: it is a favor, a favor and maximum arbitrariness. You have tried to jump into a court sentence handed down in a court with full democratic guarantees. Moreover, Oriol Pujol himself, accused and convicted, called for the suspension of that sentence and was not granted it. Look, I'm telling you... I'm going to ask you something that's pretty clear. You are behaving like the corrupt warden of the perpetual Chain; that is exactly what you are doing: you are making probatives for when the sentence of those condemned by the trial arrives. And what I ask myself and ask you to clarify is what a Republican Left Counsellor owes to former Secretary General of Democratic Convergence Mr Oriol Pujol. What do you owe him? Does your father's threat to trees and branches cause trouble for Republican Squerra to have such a favored and clumsy treatment of a corrupt condemned?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.61.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.62.0	Well, by the way, things are what they are. And I will insist on a question, which seems to be lying to you, which is a professional lawyer, say so many barbarities. We, unlike you, we, when we talk about people deprived of liberty, talk about people with all rights; the only limitation they have is the deprivation of freedom. [[Greetings.]] And, therefore, we owe it to the General Prison Law and the Prison Rules. And I will insist on one question: no more rights, no less rights for anyone. The law – the law – provides for a maximum term of two_months from the input because the treatment board makes an initial classification. It's a technical decision – and here I value the work that all professionals who depend on the Department of Justice do in everyday life –, it's not a political decision, it's technical. The treatment board, because you should know, is formed by specialists – psychologists, educators, social workers and others, teachers, etc. The prison treatment board approved it unanimously – it approved it unanimously. It is true, it is judicially reviewable; the resolution of the court is also reviewable in the higher instance. One_of_each_three initial classifications are in third grade. The year passed – I repeat it, if they learn – last year, there were 799 initial classifications in third degree, out of the total of 2,635 that were made of initial classifications. One of four persons deprived of liberty is in third degree. In Catalonia, of the 8,484 people who today are being screened prison sentence, 1,640 do so in third degree, and represent a 26_percent of the inmates, of the people deprived of liberty who are classified. And you know why we do this? Because the results tell us we're doing good. Why, when we make third degrees, when we make alternatives to prison, when we work with protected floors, with social inclusion, do you know what the index is that we have to reinsert? 80_per_cent [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – 80_per_cent. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.63.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]] Thank you very much. [[Ask the Government about Climate Emergency]] [[310-00174/12]] The penultimate question to the Government is about climate emergence and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.64.0	Thank you, President. At the midpoint of the last electoral campaign and at the height of this, the Government made an institutional declaration on climate and environmental Emergencies; they promised us a new strategy, without concrete dates or horizons. My parliamentary group has always expressed its willingness to accompany the Government in this energy and economic transition strategy that Catalan society also needs. But we need to know, Counselor, what the country needs to know, what they think about this and we want you to explain it to us more clearly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.65.0	To answer, the word "Constellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, is written. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.66.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. It is not only this climate-emergency decree; already the Government has manifested it several times, through the bases of the National Energy Transition Pact; in the 2017 Law, of climate change; later, there have also been direct actions to promote renewables, such as the derogation that we also announced from Decree 147/2009. We also ask, therefore, that there be changes in any of the state regulations. We will present this month of July the preliminary draft of the law of energy transition. This is only at the standard level; therefore, it is not this decree and it is not the result of an electoral campaign. Then, in the reply, I explain in detail some of the actions beyond this standard and conceptual framework in which we move.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.67.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.68.0	Look, we're wearing a year and a half of this government's paralysis, especially in environmental and energy matters. You're late, like at least, giving years, the Catalan experts tell us. Declaration, yes, but no agreement with outstanding legal effects and no novelty. I remind you that the 2017 Parliament approved the Climate Change Law, that you have been holding it for a year in a cove. We are talking about administrative simplification, yes, but it takes years to install a wind farm, and now that the Government of Spain has withdrawn the charge to the sun we also have problems with photovoltaic installations. He tells us that he wants to arrive in 2050 with a 100_percent of electrical sub-administration coming from renewables, and in 2030, a 50_percent. I want to remind you that this forces you to install four hundred megawatts of wind and six hundred megawatts of photovoltaics every year for the next two years. How do you think you're gonna do it? Because we have the feeling that they don't know. They have announced the opening of a scheme of subsidies for the purchase of electric vehicles and an energy efficiency scheme for the industrial sector. Bravo, congratulations, but the resources – they have forgotten to say so – come from the European Union and the Ministry of Ecological Transition. What do you put in it? Because in the powerpoint of the assumptions the energy and ecological transition was the great oblivion. We're talking about preserving biodiversity. We've been eight years waiting for him to take us to Parliament. There's no way I'm wearing it. They're talking about reviewing legislation. Logically, however, they carry three legislatures late. We're worried, Counselor. You are not here to make empty institutional statements; you are here to rule, to prioritize, to solve problems. Stop generating conflicts and rule to solve problems, and climate is one of the hard ones, and if we're not in a good position, don't let go. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.69.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.70.0	When he talks about activity since 2017, I remind him that we were under an article 155. I suppose he'll also take responsibility for who did it at the time. [[Greetings.]] Miri, he said two things that he would like to do – and then I'll talk to him about concrete actions. You're talking about this national fund, aren't you? Do you know this background? This is the foundation of all of us, binding the European Union on the Spanish Government, and there have been three rulings of the Constitutional Court, interposed for the Government of Catalonia, forcing territorialization. These funds also correspond to Catalonia; it was the Government of Catalonia that called for territorialization, because it was not there. Therefore, these foundations are not the work and thanks given by the Spanish Government, they correspond to us. From here... [[Pause.]] Yeah? Now. Excuse me. Sure, he's asking you to help us, too, huh? , that this decree that there is now, bill, also tolls and tariffs, avoids this leap of competitiveness that keep the electricity tariffs of the Basque Country respect Catalonia. Will it help us, that we do not follow a 30_per_cent minus competitors? I hope so. With concrete actions. Miri, on the subject of photovoltaic generation – and I'm starting to give you some data – we will double the help of previous years with a call of more than €700,000 for the theme of implementation of solar photovoltaic self-consumption. We have also published a model of municipal order, we have published, which removes barriers at the time to install photovoltaic plates. The PIRVEC, the electric vehicle recharge program... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.71.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.72.0	...on other occasions, I'll explain it in more detail. [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.73.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the lack of resources in health services]] [[310-00175/12]] The next and last question to the Government is about the lack of resources in the health services, and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Assumta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.74.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Counselor, today we know you're walking through primary care centers. I'd like to know if he's also walking through medical emergence services. The Medical Emergencies Service has demonstrated over the past thirty years that its added value has been basically counting on comprehensive care teams – with meth, nurse, and medical transportation technology – that they have allowed them to give a strong response to the alert. But this is in crisis right now. The new model of health transport, therefore, has put more vehicles on the road, but, in change, has broken down the services, the care teams, the staff is clearly insufficient and they do not manage to trust the staff they have, and here it may add that we have reached a point where the allocation of the resource to the territory is made by availability and not by medical criteria. Counsel, the Medical Emergencies Service is in crisis because of its poor management and lack of resources. We would like to know what they will do to cover the vacancies of doctors and nurses, what they will do to trust professionals and to make the prestige that we have all defended the Service of Medical Emergencies?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.75.0	Thank you. Congresswoman. To answer, the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.76.0	Thank you, President. To tell him, first of all, that the Servei d'Emergences Médiques continues to hold the prestige as the country structure that we have throughout the territory of Catalonia, and thus values citizenship, and, obviously, we cannot say that it is in crisis. That said, we face all the challenges that the Medical Emergencies System also has, we face them with the social side. The last six days there have been two meetings, at which I said here, in one question, that we need to be able to negotiate as well as we can negotiate full pay. The social part interprets that we need to talk before the pay complement, and that's what we're doing so far.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.77.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.78.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, a country structure that is recently sending ambulances without doctors because there are no professionals to cover them; a country structure that in the coordination centres of Reus and Hospital and have many fewer consultants than are needed. And I'm going to say it very clearly, because, I'm sure, in the last call for SEM seats, eleven coordination center meths were left behind, because all the meths on the list of candidates don't want these seats. Do you know why? Because they have to do two hundred tricks for twelve hours and give a medical and criteria answer, which exceeds any rate, even that of the primary. Look, I do believe in the prestige of the SEM, but I think you're not doing anything to trust the doctors there. My group that can do now and here is a recognition to the professionals of the Medical Emergence Service, to those who have kept the service. You, Counselor, can go far beyond recognition; what you can do is fix it. It's his responsibility and he's in his hand standing there. It begins, for example, with the recognition of the Medical Emergencies Service as an essential service, which would allow it to improve staff repositioning, to improve the coverage of extraordinary hours, and above all does not place many "sticks to the negotiation of the agreement, and above all does not coerce the mobilizations say that, otherwise, it is not possible to negotiate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.79.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.80.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.81.0	To answer the word again you have the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.82.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We will never "take negotiations or agree and, obviously, respect the social and the business part, in all the agreements that can be reached. It's true, we're short of people at the coordination center, concretely you do. Therefore, these places we have to try to make more attractive. This is one of the things we have to deal with in collective bargaining, because we don't want to be in a system where it's about stealing professionals from one device to another. This isn't a professional market. We want a system that can be shared, coordinated between the different devices of our system, the Medical Emergencies System, primary care or the hospitals of our country, because sharing can make these places more attractive and we have what we need, we have the professionals we need in each device. And, obviously, we also have problems, as for example in Barcelona's turn C city. How can we keep the same system of going back to the whole country? So it will also depend on this negotiation of the agreement with the social part, which we will always respect. And tell him that professionals have also put it as a priority of our system, not only of the System of Medical Emergencies, but also of the whole health system, because we understand that we need to plan it, to guide it with this vision of the future, advancing us to the new needs of the system, and obviously also of the System of Medical Emergencies, and incorporating all the new ways of organization, management and communication between professionals – and here 061 and the System of Medical Emergencies are also experts – professionally, professionally, professionally with citizenship. That's what we're doing, and we won't stop doing it right now. I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.83.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the employment and pay situation of associate professors and public university research staff]] [[317-00100/12]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.84.0	Good morning, President. On the day of yesterday we held a call for the vacancy of the teaching staff and the research staff of the Catalan public university and the CSIC. You have heard us many times as CUP denounce how good part of the teaching at the Catalan public university is built on the law fraud of the figure of associate teachers. The year 2017 had 6,541 teachers and associate teachers, with contracts, most of them and of them, semi-annual or annual, so temporal, with remunerations of eight hundred to four hundred euros most of them, and covering teaching of structural character, which really turned into staff that had to be indefinite. The recent month of March was approved the Royal Decree of the Status of Training Investigator Personnel, which is known as the EPIF, where minimum remunerations are established. As of today, Catalan universities have not yet paid these minimum salaries. President, we ask you a couple of questions in the form of a petition, which are actually compliments of some rights. First: when will all these teachers and associate teachers be transformed into lawbreakers into stable, structural staff and, therefore, into decent pay and work conditions? And the second question: when, as the government of the Generality, they comply with their obligations because the Catalan public universities can pay for what they legally correspond to the investigating staff, why have you fixed it in a royal decree as minimum remuneration?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.86.0	Yes, thank you, Congressman. With many complaints from many of the public sectors of our society – teachers, teachers, teaching staff – they are legitimate complaints, they are legitimate and reasonable complaints, they are complaints that we can and must obey. For example, as we did with the bombers, we did what we came to an agreement after years of not being possible. We, all these demands, try to meet them, as we have always done, with the will of dialogue, to find a solution. And here we'll do it again – and here we'll do it again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.87.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.88.0	Miri, President, we are not speaking solely of legitimate complaints: we are speaking expressly of legal realities where the Government of the Government of Catalonia, or some of its departments, is incomplicating, which means that today we are not paying the salaries that are legally established or that today we are looking at another side when we know that the majority of the staff who have a teacher's contract are in breach of the law. Miri, we are not overly concerned that in this chamber, when we ask the councillor and the good part of councillors and councillors and the Government, no answer is given; but we are concerned that there is no answer outside this chamber to the problems we have at the conjunction of Catalan society. Therefore, it is not so much a question of "going to see how we find answers, but, even in this assumption, of giving a strict compliment to legality, which also means betting in an absolutely clear way for the Catalan public university through its teachers, its teachers and its researchers and its researchers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.89.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the paragraph again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.90.0	Yeah, I'm trying to clear it up a few more dice. The demands of yesterday's vacancy were to collect the salary increase with retroactive effects, because the contracting institutions – universities and research centres – did not apply it, failing to see increased the cost of these calls. The Government of the State, as you know, honourable Member, approved the Royal Decree 103/2019 of March 11, for which it approves the Staff of the predoctoral investigator in formation; but we found that the Government of Sánchez has done the same as the Government of Montoro: it approves wage increases and spends the costs on the autonomous communities, without accompanying them with the corresponding resources. And this is the problem with which we find ourselves, as we find ourselves with others, as we find ourselves at the special work centres, and with the increase in minimum wage: they are good decisions but they are not accompanied by the corresponding transfer of funds to be able to attend to them. And it's one of the endemic problems that we have in our relationship with the Spanish Government, I know perfectly well, by the more willing of the Catalan Government to try to deal, obviously, with these complaints, which, I insist, are legitimate and reasonable. Moreover, the call for 2019 research fellowships of the Agency for the Management of University Aids and Research was made with the salaries in force in 2018, since the call is October 5, 2018. The proposed call, I can announce, will already collect the new minimum wage for researchers in formation, of 16,422_euros per year, before the current imports, of, for the first year, a minimum annual gross remuneration of the contracted persons of 14,700_euros. Therefore, in our own summons we are already able to complete it. For the second and third annuities, the minimum annual gross remuneration shall be EUR 16,000. The presupposition prorogation does not allow us to assume this additional cost now; it is one of the problems. And that's why I'm going to ask you and the following groups that, now that the election period is over, we're going back to the polls to renegotiate the assumptions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.91.0	President, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.92.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.93.0	Thank you very much. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the assumptions and measures for energy transition and to fight against climate change]] [[317-00103/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.94.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, three months ago from my group we asked Councilwoman Chacón what measures she was taking in front of her office, her department, to fight the climate change, and the truth is that the answer was practically non-existent. On March it was I who asked you this question, and again the answer was quite vague and uncontained. How fifteen days ago his Government declared the climate emergency, following the lines of the governments of Gal·les, Scotland and the United Kingdom, which we certainly are celebrating, I now ask you what the assumption is and who are the concrete measures it will take and what it will take to fight against climate change and energy transition.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.96.0	Yes, indeed, I think that Catalan society, like the most advanced societies, needs to put the focus on this situation of emergence, of the emergence of the world, of the climate. And we have taken this first step: declare this state of emergency. I seem to agree, I think, with all the other groups in the chamber that it's a step forward and that it's a step that can congratulate us - all of us, because it's not a question of the government, it's a question of citizenship. And, if I may, after you have completed the answer, I will detail the concrete commitments.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.97.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.98.0	Thank you, President. We do not want commitments, we want to know assumptions, concrete actions and timetables, because, if not, we would think that in the end the declaration of climate emergency was more an electoral announcement than a reality and a concern and a country theme. Miri, the law we passed in this Parliament two years ago envisaged the creation of three environmental taxes. One of the three is on the march: neither the emission of CO2 from vehicles, nor the emission of contaminating industries, nor the emission of crackers. Nor is the implementation of photovoltaic energy accelerating after eight years, to reach 50_per_cent by 2030, which is what we have predicted. And, as experts say, we also need to review the planning of some infrastructure. They can't be talking about reducing emissions and talking about expanding the airport or C-32. President, there is not enough with well-intentioned and grandiose political statements, nor with empty gesticulations. It's a coordinated action of all administrations. We are asking that Catalonia lead it, as we did in 2017, with the Climate Change Act, because, beyond the electoral cycle, I insist, as a presumption and as a concrete measure. So far, it's the experts, it's the organizations, and it's the young people, who have been re-dating more than a hundred countries, who are turning this priority into an agenda. And it plays once and for all that the generality is put to work on present and future policies, because we don't have a planet of relapse. And take advantage: Zero Waste's people will promote, are preparing a campaign for the coming week to boycott all the food you're packed in plastic. I encourage you to all who are here, as well as all who are following us, to do so, because once again the citizenry shows that it went far ahead of institutions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.99.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the paragraph again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.100.0	Yeah. I would like to recall, first of all, that the first law – the first law – approved by the Puigdemont Government is the climate change law – the first law. The first law obviously suspends for the Constitutional Court; the first law appealed, as was usually the case in the government of President Puigdemont. In the Spanish State, the first government to launch an environmental council was here in Catalonia. [[Someone laughed.]] I want to say that Catalonia has always... – if after they laugh let me continue... –, there has always been this willingness to push the whole issue of the environment forward. It has been one of the concerns of all the Catalan governments and, I insist, the first law approved by the government of President Puigdemont. We're working on the regulatory deployment of this, exactly, climate law. We will present a decree setting out the composition, the regime, the functioning of the Interdepartmental Commission on Climate Change and the functioning of the climate fund, through environmental taxes – which we will apply – to commercial aviation, to radioactive elements – already in force – to carbon dioxide emissions from mechanical traction vehicles – in processing. Through these taxes we will also have resources to fight it. We will make all the electricity used by the Railways of the Government of Catalonia as of 2019 remain of renewable origin. Do they want concrete commitments? These are concrete commitments. We will encourage help to buy net cars, one of the measures that establishes the Pla de migliora of the quality of the area of the Barcelona conurbation, for which we have already made an important endowment. The DOGC published a few weeks ago two lines of help to fight climate change: one for local authorities, for the development of mitigation and adaptation actions to climate change, for the acquisition of low-emission vehicles; the other for business associations in Catalonia, to conduct studies in the field of carbon dust and products or services for the year 2019. Not only that: we will hold a monographic plethora on this subject, because it seems to us absolutely urgent that this country should discuss the climate emergency, and all the details will be there. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.101.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the valuation of the first year of government and the priorities and prospects for the remaining legislature]] [[317-00099/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.102.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Very honorable President of the Generality, what is the balance of government action one year after your election as President of the Generality and who are the priorities and prospects for what remains of the legislature?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.103.0	Thank you. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.104.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Effectively, on June 2nd it will be a year since the Government of the Generality, which is now there, because the first government of the Generality, as you know, it was not possible to set it up; there were appointed advisers who are in exile and advisers who are in prison, and the State prevented this Government from pulling forward. So the best way to object that this government on the part of the citizenry are the election results, are the results of the last three elections, that they say that independence has the social and political majority of this country and that, therefore, as in the government, we feel totally confirmed for what we have done so far. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.105.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.106.0	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems to me that I'll help you make a balance a little more objective. [[Rialles.]] From our point of view, his government's balance is ineffective; we are before a bad government. I will give you some examples: the failure of the guaranteed income of the citizenry; serious shortcomings in the management of minor strangers not accompanied; incomplements of parliamentary mandates, such as the mandate to reduce university fees, to approve the new program contract of the Catalan Radio and Television Corporation, or to establish an extraordinary fund for the meetings to increase the social aid managed locally. We can also talk about the lack of deployment of the Children's Law; about the over-effort that is required without regard to counterparts to movements, doctors, nurses, teachers and firefighters. We're talking about the debt with social entities all over the place. Let's talk about the debt with the joints, especially the one you have to see with the financing of the schools. Let's talk about the lack of compromises respecting inclusive school and children who require special attention. We're talking about not having updated the School Mensers' Decree. We talk about not having regularly deployed the law that guarantees the rights of lesbian, gay, transgender, bisexual and intersexual people. We are talking about a lack of compromises enough in the effort to reduce waiting lists. We're talking about deficiencies in infrastructure and public transport. Where is the investment plan that they had committed themselves to? Or we can also talk about commitments made in the investment debate, such as the creation of Catalonia's professional training and qualification agency, or the promotion of physical activity and sport, or the law on the search and innovation system. We are talking about the inability to approve the government and to bring the draft assumptions to Parliament by 2019, and we are already arriving in June. President, my question also had the feeling of asking you which are the priorities of your government from then on, which time of parliamentary term is compromised. And I ask you concrete themes: will we have a presupposition for 2019? Will we hold the debate on the general political orientation of the Government? Will we have a presupposition for 2020? The Catalan society deserves a government that really governments, that does well and that has the ability to stabilize political action. And your government, Mr. President, we don't think it does.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.107.0	To answer, again the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.108.0	Yeah, we talk, we talk about a lot of things. Let's talk about the government that lets Article 155 stand in the way of you voting and putting Catalan institutions out of the way. [[Greetings.]] Let's talk about this first – let's talk about this first. We're talking about a government that's next to their political prisoners and their exiles and wants them to be released. And this late they'll have a UN resolution. [[strong remorse of the voice and some applause]] Which I hope you'll complete. Let's say that this is a government that wants to exercise the right to self-determination and that feels strengthened in its commitments made in the investment speech, endorsed by the polls in three consecutive elections – in three consecutive elections. But all this, let's say, review of what we've done so far, if I may, I've already publicly said that the coming week, after the Council runs, I'll do a press wheel to explain who they are... – because it seems logical to me, June 2nd, so on June 4th, we'll do this press wheel –, to explain what the government has done all this year and who its plans are. That I also assure you that it is stable, that it is rigour, that it is to continue to govern, that it is obviously to be in the general policy debate, that we will continue to lay down the alternatives that this Government takes..., to hold its mandate, that it is to make the Catalan Republic effective. But I just want to talk to you about what we've done this month – this month – because maybe sometimes... since you've also been through very concrete issues, it's worth getting into very concrete issues as well. We have approved the National Plan of Associationism and Volunteering, dated 2021, to give support to more than five hundred and thousand Catalan volunteers; the Inter-Departmental Plan of Support to Families, endowed with 700_million euros; the decree of urgent measures to contain the prices in the contract of Lloger, which it was time for a government to do so; we have formally declared the climate emergency and we will allocate more than 58_million euros to a first package of measures to deal with the emergency; we have drawn up an artificial intelligence strategy, which I have already had the opportunity to announce precisely in the opening of the first center of the NTT Data on artificial intelligence throughout Europe that has opened in Barcelona. Not just that. Worried...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.109.0	President, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.110.0	See? We've done so many things that you haven't given me time to tell them there. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.111.0	The next question is the formula... [[Ask the President of the Generality about the valorization of the past elections and the rise of the ultra-right and about the UN resolution calling for the release of political prisoners]] [[317-00102/12]] .... on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.112.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President. Counselors, advisors, MPs, MPs, we come out of an intense and unusual electoral cycle, and putting the magnifying glass on the dice is also to assume that a map that concerns us, especially in Europe, where the ultra-threat advances quickly and landy guany in various countries where the anti-European parties are torn down and with speeches of extreme right: Le Pen, Farage, Salvini. While Republicanism in Catalonia is raging, the rest of the Vox State has obtained representation from the municipal authorities, three MEPs joining the twenty-fourth of April 28 at the Congress. Twenty-four Members of Parliament who, from the Xilan eschode, bramen, beat the pit in front of political dignity, before languages that would want deaths, from who thinks different, from those who always and, at all events, defend more democracy. Crits and beetles don't scare us, but we fear intolerance, for experience, because we have suffered it and because we suffer it. Ultrathreat is a dangerous phenomenon, a dark evil, a report that capitalizes social rebreed like no one else. But we can't assign them just to them. There are parties like Citizens and the PP that give them rope, that they have offered them table on negotiation, that they will not hesitate to do it again, that they let them enter the institutions. Each time it costs more to distinguish them. They're the same lines that want to keep innocents locked up in bread and stuffed for twenty-five years and keep our partners in a forced exile. A position that is counter, absolutely counter to the UN. The proper hours will confirm, but today the UN position is clear and the conclusion calls for the cell: the preventive arrest of our political prisoners friends is disproportionate, unfair, disproportionate and violates human rights, which we have always explained. The UN today calls for his release and compensation. After this resolution we demand that they be released immediately. Or will they also fail to complete a United Nations resolution? Will Spain be one of those 5_per_cent of countries that does not complete the UN resolutions? We are clear, freedom for prisoners, return from exiles immediately; rather repression as revenge. Political solution to a political conflict, a solution that must count on the involvement of our institutions and our government. And we wanted to know what he valued his government for, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.113.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.114.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. So, as I just said, for us, like the Government of Catalonia, the result of these elections is remarkably positive. For the first time, independence is up to 50_percent of the votes, thanks to the results of the header lists for President Puigdemont and Vice-President Oriol Junqueras. And that's an extraordinary result, that's a result that strengthens us more like the government. The two forces of the Government have produced a result that the government of Europe has not met with this harvest. This allows it to be one of the first conclusions of the results. The second, what message does that suppose for Europe? So it seems very obvious to me, this is an "Español, Europe". Listen, Europe, a people who once and for freedom, for democracy and for the right to self-determination. It's that we're clear about the message we sent this time. And, in addition, I think it adds this point, if you want, to put in a very graphic way in the European Parliament what the Catalans are doing, this democratic revolution. We're winning in the polls. While others take us to any court, we win the ballot box. And that's important, we win thanks for our votes and for the will of the citizens. And, therefore, the answer that the Spanish State has now..., is to say: "Listen to me, will they listen to Catalans at once or not? Will they escort the Catalans or not? Will they allow President Puigdemont to be an MEP or not? Will they allow Vice-President Oriol Junqueras to be MEPs or not? That is the question to be asked by Spain. Because, indeed, you were now commenting that it is possible that this will take time for us to have this resolution of the UN, of the United Nations High Commission, the highest body of the UN on human rights – the highest body – in which you most likely say that Jordi Sánchez, Jordi Cuixart and Oriol Junqueras will be released immediately. And the answer will again be in the hands of the Spanish State. Spain's democracy is seeing serious attacks by the great international bodies. I think it's time that as much Europe as all of Spain comes along with this cry, that the summary with an 'Español, Europe, here is a people that is voting, that democraticly is reiterating once and for all that wants to be a free people. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.115.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the appreciation of the results of independence in the latest elections]] [[317-00101/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.116.0	Thank you, President Torrent. President Torra, independence advances to Catalonia despite the repression of the 155th tripartite, the 155th monarchy, which has made us unable to compete on equal terms in these elections. Reality is hopeful. After this electoral cycle we have seen that 21-D, victory in votes and deputies that revalidates the 1st of October; elections to the Congress and the Senate, victory in votes and deputies of independence; municipal elections, victory in votes and mayors of independence, where all independence forces exceed 80_percent of the municipalities, we have won independence. The overwhelming and historic victory of President Puigdemont and independence in the European elections, for the first time, comes to 50 % of the vote. In the polls, in democracy, we always win. But, also, we see in a very worrying way the lack of democratic quality of the Spanish State. They did not accept the outcome of 21 December: the investiture of President Puigdemont was not allowed; the investiture of Jordi Sànchez was not allowed; the Jordi Turull was put in prison, because he was not invested president of the Government of Catalonia; he was not allowed to approve a government of President Torra. Neither did they accept the outcome of the elections to the Congress and the Senate. In a very diligent way, the PSC, with all the parliamentary courtesy, did not take a week to suspend elected deputies and senators, chosen for the people of Catalonia. But despite all that, we will win, because it is Europe and the world where democracy is and where it is freed, where we hope that President Puigdemont can fully exercise his rights as an MEP and where we hope that the resolutions, such as today appear to appear from the UN, in a historical way, can bring the freedom of political prisoners and the return of exiles. President, what is the value of this political situation, thanks to these very good results of independence?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.117.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.118.0	Yes, thank you, Congressman. Actually, as I just said, I think that this electoral cycle, with these three calls after the 21st of December, therefore, gives a very clear victory to independence, huh? Those questions, those predictions made by the CEO have been completed, they have been completed voting. And it seems to me that it is important to highlight this fact, that it is a democratic revolution, in which Catalans always vote for their future and for liberation. Therefore, we come out strengthened from this electoral cycle – I see that – and as the Government feels very reinforced, precisely, by this support that has given us citizenship in these elections. Now, what does that support mean, one after the other? We're ratifying what we did on October 1st. And so it seems to me that what's important right now is that we all fold back to that spirit that made us winners, that first-octubre and the strategic unit that made us move forward in this way during these years. And that, bearing in mind that not everyone could make a normal campaign, because here it seems to us that, look, we bring this result because we all could have the same weapons. Of course, we've had candidates for prison, we've had candidates for exile, and yet we've had exceptional results. So, if you'll excuse me, I'll put it more fully. And, indeed, a few decisive months are coming – a few decisive months are coming – after having closed this electoral cycle. And what I would like today is for us all to become aware of the historical moment at which we are about to address ourselves. And, therefore, I would like – and I announce it – to have the opportunity to have a round of talks with all parties, with all the social, economic, civil entities in the country that work and have a firm commitment to the exercise of the right to self-determination, to know what they think. As we think, all folds, pull forward these months that we lack until some sensations that, obviously, we want absolutes, but that, if they were not so, they would be a direct attack on all democrats and an absolute shame for the State. Therefore, in order to overcome these challenges that are presented, in order to realize the democratic aspirations of the people of Catalonia, I demand this strategic unity. I'll meet everyone to see if we can, among all of us, trace the course of these own months. I would like to quote Joan Fuster: "We should not tire of repeating it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.119.0	President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.120.0	...all freedoms are solid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.121.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the President of the Generality on care for dependent persons]] [[317-00098/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.122.0	Mr President, there is one issue that worries many families, and it is that Catalonia is once again the autonomous community with more dependent people unattended from all over Spain. One_of_each_three does not receive any help. That's 46_per_cent more than the Spanish average. What is your Government doing to improve this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.123.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.124.0	Yes, thank you. This question has often been asked by the Councillor of Social Affairs on various occasions, here and in committees, but I have no problem in, then, developing what we are doing from the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.125.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.126.0	Mr. Torra, I asked you why there is a 46_per_cent worse than in the rest of Spain; that is our index, worse than in the rest of Spain. Take the same haste to solve the dependency you've had to reschedule in the Palau de la Generalitat that banner that attacks our country with its lie about the coup prisoners. The neutrality of the institutions must be respected by you in the electoral campaign, and also outside of it; every day, Mr. Torra, every day, to see if we understand it already. Until you understand that you must respect the law and democracy, you will have to answer to justice, as you did two weeks ago and as your colleagues are doing before the Supreme Court. That's normal when you don't respect the law. And yesterday we were aware of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg which leaves them in evidence, which shows that you lie more than you speak; in short, that you struck democracy and that it was the Constitutional Court that defended us. On October 9, 2017 you wanted to hold a plenary session to unilaterally declare independence, but the Constitutional Court did not leave you, and then Mr Puigdemont with his seventy-four deputies appealed and the Strasbourg Court did not give you the reason, gave you a slap sound. He told them: "The suspension of the plenary session was necessary in a democratic society, especially for the maintenance of public security, the defence of order, and the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of others. What part do you not understand, Mr. Torra? The TEDH does not go with you, do you not listen to it? It would be good for you to replace the infamous banner that you once again hung in Palau with another with this sentence of the court, but as you are not going to do I have brought you this sentence of the framed court [[laughs and remorse of the eyes]] to hang it in your office, Mr. Torra. [[applause]] – so she can hang it in her office. And we'll also give him an alkayata and the hammer...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.127.0	Congressman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.128.0	...they lend it to Arran, who break our crystals... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.129.0	Time's up. [[Greetings.]] To answer the paragraph again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.130.0	No, no, if it's very clear that you're very interested in dependency, huh? I mean, after that explanation. But fine, if I may. [[applause]] ...I don't know, seeing them now with this exhibition another time of the famous posters, now with a version a little more worked... No, no, congratulations, I mean, because it's already more framed, we're gaining in professionalism... but it reminds me of a little bit of the great Capri, right? , that Mrs. Arrimadas is going over but the posters are staying. I mean, I hope that this, honestly, one day, so we can sort it out, we can have some speeches and some hard debates, if they want, but without this clumsiness, huh? , without this soul always to attack, to break, etcetera. I look, in change, today I feel very generous and I would like to congratulate them; I congratulate them for repeating the same excellent result of the municipal elections that four years ago: zero mayors – zero. [[Greetings.]] Listen to me, you're out of it, from... - it's what you're going to study, huh? , to the universities–, they agree, that you, four years ago, zero deputies..., pardon, zero mayors, win the Catalan elections and again squander 1_million votes and return to zero– with zero– mayors? Do you have any idea what this is supposed to mean? It's that even the whole PP has advanced them, and the whole PP [[applause]] That he's practically about to disappear from the country, he's got four mayors! Yours, zero. So, listen to me, your strategy of confrontation, of threats, of chrism, maybe it works in the Spanish State, I don't say no; maybe you're here because the rest of the State has votes for your colleagues, probably. But it doesn't work here. Here, I already told Mrs. Arrimadas and I repeated it, you're in liquidation, you've lost more than a million votes. Make them 'hommirate, huh? - They're making 'homirar'. On the other hand, we here have won the elections, won the Spanish legislative elections, won the municipal elections and won the European Parliament. And we're already 50 percent in votes. I will not disappear, Mrs. Rimadas..., « Mrs. Rimadas : Mr. Carrizosa [[relays]] - He's forgiven. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, of course... well, it's that, of course, the same speeches, in the end and out...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.131.0	President, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.132.0	Well, leave it here. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.133.0	After the control session, let's move to the second point of the order of the day, which is the composition of the Bureau of Parliament. [[Composition of the Bureau of Parliament]] [[398-00001/12]] We then proceed to the election of a new second vice-president or second vice-president, as a result of the resignation of Mr. José María Espejo-Saavedra. In order to proceed to the election of the Vice-President, in accordance with Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, this vote shall be taken by means of papers, which shall be delivered to the Bureau so that they are placed in the ballot box prepared for that purpose. [[Widow's remorse.]] According to the article... be quiet, please! According to Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure, each Member shall write a name to the paper, and the Member who obtains a majority of votes shall be elected. Unreadable papers and papers containing a name higher than the requirement or names relating to persons who are not members of Parliament shall be deemed null and void. Papers without written indication will consider blank votes. I remind the House that the members of the Government who remain parliamentarians and the members of the Bureau will vote at the end. [[Pause.]] We're going to cry out each and every one, one by one, of the deputies and deputies, starting with the name that came out of the lot, which is that of Mr Carlos Carrizosa's deputy. Please ask the secretary Eusebi Campdepadrós to read the list of deputies and vagina coming to the Bureau to vote. Thank you very much. [[According to Rule 101.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally called in alphabetical order to vaginate to the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The members of the Bureau are called at the end.]] The question is whether there is any Member who has not been called to vote. [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] So, once the vote is over, we will now proceed to the polls to find out who has been elected vice-president second or vice-president second of the Parliament. Let's go to the polls. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] The result of the vote was the following: emesos votes, 131; votes for the deputy Joan García, 56; null, 61; in blanc, 6; votes for the deputy Maria Sirvent, 1; for the deputy Esperança García, 1; for the deputy Marina Bravo, 1; for the deputy Najat Driouch, 1; for the deputy Noemí de la Calle, 1; for the deputy Assumpta Escarp, 1; for the deputy Alicia Romero, 1; for the deputy Elsa Artadi, 1. Therefore, with these results, Mr Joan García was elected vice-president of the Bureau of Parliament by 56 votes in favour, asking him to take his place at the Bureau as a sign of acceptance of the carrec. [[Greetings. The second vice-president of Parliament's Bureau is in his place.]] Next... [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yeah, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.134.0	Thank you. Beyond what can be passed on to the next vote, we would like to point out that we are still far from parity to the Bureau of Parliament, and that there are many very brave and very powerful women MPs, who could occupy this place, to all political groups in this chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.135.0	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.136.0	They've come up with names, they're an example, but we think we need to show that we're still a long way from gambling.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.137.0	Thank you, Mrs. Segovia. [[Greetings.]] Next, and because of Mr. Joan García's election as vice-president second, there was the vacancy of the third secretary seat of the Bureau. For this reason, I propose to the plenary, in accordance with Rule 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the extension of the agenda so as to elect the third secretary or the third secretary of the Bureau, if there is no objection... No? [[Pause.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote to cover this Bureau vacancy. In accordance with Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, this vote shall also be taken by means of papers, which shall be delivered to the Bureau so that they are placed in the ballot box, as has been done before. Each deputy will have to write a name to the paper, and the one who gets a majority of votes will be elected. [[Long break.]] As we've done before, we'll call one for a deputy and a deputy, and I pray you're a vagina lying at the table to make the vote. [[Pause.]] We will begin by calling from the Member of Parliament Nattalia Sánchez. The names of the secretary Mr. Eusebi Campdepadrós will be quoted. When he wants to. [[According to Rule 101.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally called in alphabetical order to vaginate to the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The members of the Bureau are called at the end.]] All right, let's go to the countdown, so... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me. Hasn't any Member been called to vote? Don't you? [[Pause.]] So let's go to the countdown. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] Very well, after voting, the final result of the vote was the following: Mr Raül Romeva, 1 vote; Mrs Marta Maderas, 1 vote; Mr Carles Puigdemont, 4 votes; Mr Antoni Comín, 2 votes; Mrs Susanna Segovia, 1 vote; Mrs Laura Vílchez, 56 votes; No 50; in white, 16. The third secretary of the Bureau was therefore elected by 56 votes in favour, Mrs Laura Vílchez, to whom I would like to place her seat at the Bureau. Forward. [[Greetings. The third secretary of Parliament's Bureau occupies her place.]] Tell me, Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.138.0	For a point of order in relation to the result of the vote just made public by the President. [[Pause.]] And the question, in concrete terms, is whether a Member who is suspected of his or her duties can take on a role as Secretary of the Bureau. If not, we understand that these votes should be considered null and void.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.139.0	Mr. Rodriguez, the countdown, with all the consequences it carries, is what we just read. Thank you very much. [[Communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions]] We continue with the next item on the order of the day, which is the communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees must be communicated to the plenary. As the current composition of the Commission of Justice has been included in the Ple's file which is distributed, I would like to express my appreciation of its reading. Yeah? [[Pause.]] [[Agrarian Space Law Proposal]] [[202-00026/12]] So, once we complete Rule 49.2, let's go to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food on the Proposal for the Law of Agricultural Spaces. In accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, the first word is Mr Marc Solsona, who has been appointed by the rapporteur. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.140.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, then, a few words as the rapporteur put it: the Law of Agrarian Thicknesses. First of all, to give the welcome, also, therefore, to the people of the department, general director and also members of the Agricultural Table who are accompanying us today, and people of the sector who are accompanying us here today, in this approval of this law, as well as, logically, to the Agricultural Councillor to be here too. A very sincere thanks to the speakers: to the Irene Fornós, to the Óscar Ordeig, to the Francisco Domínguez, to Yolanda López and also to the Marc Parés, who replaced her in the process of the ponència de llei. And also a special mention to Irene Fornos, because for a lot of who is formed with a rapporteur, let us say that there is a very powerful co-rapporteur, who has followed Irene, who has also been a very strong link and that, therefore, I also want to thank the director-general in a special way, for also the ease and put it all very easy at the time of coordination with the department, as well as at Alba d'RI, also to the director-general – to accompany us today – also for his contributions, and, obviously, also to the reader, to the manager and the servants of the house, let's say, to try to make this read flow as best as possible. I think it's a brave law, that risks it, that it's a commitment to the sector. A law that goes all the way, that has the consent of the Agrarian Table, that we have also been able, through entities, unions, the different compares see, so, truly, the one that gave if the objective ambitions of this norm. And the object of the pose was basically to focus the pose on the object of this law, because being a very transversal law could incorporate at all times, could incorporate, incorporate, incorporate..., and have, perhaps, an object, that if we didn't define it very well, could be infinite and that could also then overlap with other standards currently in force. Therefore, using the full competence we have in agriculture – and that's good that we can point it out – we can say that now, in the process that you will see at the time to explain how the different issues, transactions and debate have gone..., so I think we can say that we have a good law. October 25th. Seven months after today we are here to make the final approval of the opinion. We are personally satisfied with how it has developed: good, good understanding, good debate, willingness to find agreements, putting the sector and the object of the law in the face of more party or ideological issues. And, therefore, it seems to me that here too a very consistent effort has been made in the laying. One hundred and thirty items. Therefore, there were themes for discussion. In the end it was closed with twenty-seen articles and different dispositions and final dispositions and transitory. Well, we think he finally got along with the target, fell asleep. After we talk about the deployment, but above all do this thanks, let's tell everyone that everyone has seen in the law an opportunity, after so many years, that can be made effective. There will be one before and one after approval of this law in Parliament today. There will be an earlier and later, also, at sector level, to plan as the future of the management of agrarian space as well, as specified in the law. There will be a time before and after articulating country policies, which prioritize agrarian soil as a priority soil in front of different other types of soil. Therefore, without further ado, give thanks to everyone, and let's go now, therefore, to the debate of the items that have remained alive here on the stand. Therefore, thank you very much and we follow the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.141.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. The parliamentary groups that have reserved defence items in the House will continue to speak for a maximum of two minutes. In the case of subgroups, five minutes. And then the other parliamentary groups will intervene to determine their position, also for a maximum of two minutes. In the first place, he has the word, to defend the reserved elements of the Ciutadans Group, Mr. Francisco Javier Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.142.0	Thank you, President. First, welcome to the representatives of the sector and the department who are invited. Thank you. The proposal of llei d'espais agraris... I will start this debate by resuming what I left in the debate to the whole, which is a law that has been dragging itself since 83, which was already talked about that it was necessary to define « les terres d'us agricole, forest d'special interest that can preserve or expand, and since then have passed thirty_y_five or thirty_y_six years ago. At this time the General Territorial Plan, two full monographs, has been approved, an attempt has been made to draw up a land law and this is the second time that the Agricultural Spaces Act has been attempted to be adopted. And it seems that we will finally be able to pass this law. Although there is a fairly broad consensus in the sector and among the various political groups, this delay of more than thirty years is only justified by a lack of general interest in this law. And the last governments have still delayed it a little further for other priorities, with short legislatures, with identity priorities, the process, the DUI, the republic..., but so far. It is now up to us to work on this law, and this law is of interest to us all, to the sector and to society as a whole. To understand what this law is about, I want to explain five basic concepts. First, soil for agricultural use must be protected, and it must be ensured that it is sufficient and of quality. Why is it so important? First, for primary production. And then to fight rural depopulation and preserve the territorial balance of the population. Secondly, agricultural areas of high agricultural value must be particularly protected against other land, urban, industrial and other uses. And why should this be done? Well, because the soil is not polyvalent, we have to define what is the best use for each palm of our territory. It can't be grown anywhere. Thirdly, we need to include agricultural impact studies in projects that affect farms, urban or infrastructure projects, because when we do a project we need to know in advance what consequences and what we are going to affect. We are very used to environmental impact studies, and we will also have to get used to agricultural impact studies, which are so necessary. Fourth: it is essential to develop agricultural planning tools. Again, we are very used to urban planning and agricultural areas need planned planning and planning. And fifth and very important: this law must be provided with human and budgetary resources. Without them this law will be on wet paper. I want to explain how the presentation phase went. First, I want to highlight the contributions of the whole sector, the forestry sector, the agricultural organizations, the engineering colleges, the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Federation and the Federation of Cooperatives. And I hope I don't leave someone because it's an aggravation, but I generalize for all who have come to bring their vision. In the Parliamentary Group of Citizens we have taken this law very seriously. That is why we would have preferred it to have been through a bill rather than a bill. But since we're here, we've taken it with even more interest. Our group has tabled more than 60 amendments and we have tabled almost 50 amendments, with transactions and acceptances. The law is divided into two main concepts: the protection of the spaces and the theme of unused agricultural farms, for their recovery as agricultural activity. The articles in the first block have introduced concepts, thanks to the amendments, of the sustainability or economic viability of the farms; the non-food production of goods and services, such as textile crops, pharmacies or ornamental crops, because there was a lot of talk about food sovereignty and neglect of the protection of non-food agricultural uses. When talking about agricultural infrastructure, we should also talk about those related to the prevention of forest fires, which have been incorporated. Forest management tools have also been introduced as one of the information bases for the development of the land plan. The importance of professional colleges, business organisations and forestry has been clarified. In the non-use part of the farms, there have been quite a few improvements, such as a greater legal guarantee in the process of declaring the farm out of use for its subsequent lease; a greater ease in incorporating urbanizable plots into the land register until the relevant urban plan is developed; and, very important: the Department of Agriculture must incorporate, as it has remained, in the register of unused plots the non-activity plots of public ownership. And I say that it is important because the Administration must set an example: before forcing private owners, public parcels must immediately switch to the registration of unused parcels. And here I leave it, because there are many amendments and I am not going to make the relationship of all. Just to say that I am very satisfied with the work and I apologize to my colleagues Marc, Irene and Óscar, because they have had a lot of patience during this presentation with so many amendments, and also to the lawyer of the house. Many shortcomings have been corrected, but – and there is always one but – I have a few living amendments that I am going to explain a little bit. Amendment 23, on food sovereignty. I believe that we have abused this term, which is very good for the explanatory statement, but in particular we do not see it coming out with so much importance in the joint text. As important is the pagodas that make wheat or fruit as the one that makes cut flower, ornamental plant or textile crops. Amendment 49 on the planning and management of natural spaces. If we have come to a natural space with a certain value, it is thanks to the activities that have been done in that space. Therefore, it should be preserved. An example would be the protection of birds of the ZEPA, which, if we do not help the paid to make a living with the grain of dried, we can lose the paid, the birds and the ZEPA itself. Amendments 67 and 70 are texts from the fallen Soil Law, which talks about agricultural infrastructure works and land concentration. And it is a pity that this content of the Law d'espais agraris is lost. That is why I ask the groups to value this inclusion and to be able to approve these two amendments. Amendment 87, on unused parcels in which the owner could not be identified. This legal uncertainty needs to be eliminated. Who's going to charge that rent? Can the Administration charge rent for land that is not yours? And when the owner shows up, what do we do? Do we force you to compensate the tenant? Finally, Amendment 97, in line with which the Administration must set an example. It is an amendment that talks about..., when the plot is owned by the public, it must be rented immediately, since we already know the use it has. And, to finish... Mrs. Counselor, congratulate. And thank you for putting the department at our disposal, and for clearing up doubts and working on a better text. But let me ask you something. First, developing this law implies characterizing all agricultural spaces, determining which are of high agricultural value, developing the territorial plan, developing a system of information and monitoring of the state of these spaces, creating the registration of unused plots, intermediation and much more. It's a very big job ahead of you. So, what I wanted to ask you is that, please, worry, worry that there is enough budget and human resources to keep this law out of a drawer. So congratulations and keep working. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.143.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then he has the word, to defend the reserved items for the Socialist Group, the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.144.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Councillor, councillor, councillor, members of the government..., director general, welcome. And a very sincere thanks to the work done, not only for the presence of the agricultural unions, the organizations, the people of the sector accompanying us, who have worked, who have proposed proposals, who have made appearances, but also, in particular, the thanks to the Union of Pages, who today accompany us; to the Jarc, who today accompany us; to the Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives; to the Pifarré farm, also an example of the defense of the branch in the peri-urban areas, and to the Professional College of Agricultural Engineers. That's why I'm here. As has been said, a widely claimed law – repeated also at the 2010-2014 agrarian monograms, apart from the Law of 83, which was already spoken of –, which allows us to identify agricultural areas: description, protection, its planning and a register of plots, in the end, of plots in disuse, to facilitate its logue and subsequent conreu. We've already said we're good. We're going in the right direction, Counselor, but there's not enough. It has been said to the appearances; we say it here today: there is not enough, with this law; it is a base, but then we need recollection, we need resources, we need good coordination of public administrations so that the productivity of these lands that we want to put into operation, remains viable and therefore is profitable. For a lot of land, because it can be cultivated, if then there is no cult that works, if there are no products that can be sold to a reasonable price, then this will not work. So we have work to do, and we'll bet on it. The stake for the agri-food sector is evident in Catalonia. This is a law – which they like so much, say this – of a country, and it is because the agri-food sector occupies 3.6_percent of Catalonia's GDP. Therefore, it is a law that has an important economic impact, it is a law that has an important territorial impact of the rural world, and it is a law, obviously, that directly affects food, the quality of food and, therefore, directly the salvation of all Catalans. Global demand for food is increasing – by 2050 there will have to be an increase in production of 70_per_cent, and therefore, for the increase of the world population, also for the increase of the demand for food – and someone will have to face it. We have always said: better productivity, better innovation, better food technology – we have experiences that have worked – better technology transfer with our universities, with research institutes, like IRTA... This is the line, here is where we have to put all the necessary resources. And, of course, this is a very important impact on the economy of the rural world. And what is the current situation in the rural world? Home, therefore, we have already said: abandonment of many conreus, also the fruit of depopulation, the impoverishment and enveloping of some areas of Catalonia, as it also passes through Europe, 45,000 hectares of conreus abandoned in Catalonia, 1,4_per_cent of the total area of Catalonia ; reduction of the number of farms and farms, and we also see an increasing concentration of these farms at the hands of fewer owners. The sector's crisis has also worsened this situation, such as the lack of support or the failure to find a comprehensive support project for the small farmer and producer, the details of the economic crisis since 2010, or an adverse regulation of the sector. We also have to say: the long-distance metropolitan view of what is actually the agricultural sector and rowing; but also some legal, bureaucratic, environmental restrictions... It cannot be the same level of protection as the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona that determines rural areas, which do not have the environmental problems of large capitals. The increase in direct or indirect costs for production, when we see that the selling price each time lowers more and more, and above all those that are smaller, that have less bargaining capacity. I said, we'll keep saying it. For another gang, what does this law bring? Home, therefore, is important: a register of farms in disuse, those that have abandoned themselves, those that are not used, those that could facilitate that it is gifted to young people, women or people with agricultural formation that can exploit them. Therefore, facilitated to us farmers, facilitated because it is put into use and, above all, facilitated to avoid depopulation, to avoid the abandonment of land or of the rural world in general; agrarian activity, branch, intimately connected to depopulation, to the fixation of people to the territory. And, obviously, an objective also to increase the land surface throughout Catalonia. Exmenes presented and accepted by the Socialist Group. We have presented papers, accepted, obviously with this good predisposition, with this good, from the advice to the parliamentary groups, in order to try to find a text that includes the combination of the contributions of the different groups. We have proposed, that we believe it is very important..., it is not only facilitating the lease of land: it is accompanying and technical advice from the technicians of the Department of Agriculture, from the offices; I think it is an important issue. It also ensures mobile and fiber optic telephone coverage in peri-urban areas, encouraging innovation, entrepreneurship and technology in production. In other words, "Smart Green" can say how it is, but it is to bring technologies to peri-urban areas and, in this way, also to promote economic activity, promote innovation, promote training; training, innovation and entrepreneurship to peri-urban areas. We have the advantage that the larger urban clusters have more students, as usual, and we also have to take advantage of these proper agricultural areas for such training on how food is produced, what technologies are associated with it, and also to do pedagogy in this sense. A specific programme and actions and resources to prevent abandonment to the mountain areas; therefore, a specific programme of abandoned or abandoned plots of land in the Pyrenees. And, of course, I would also like to say that I am taking advantage of the fact that we are withdrawing the message that was still alive, we are withdrawing it, and we are voting in favour, as it cannot otherwise be, of the law's opinion. What are we missing? Following the line of what we have already commented, along with resources to the sector, along with money and resources from the Generality, the State, the European Union, precisely in order to go to a defined strategy that increases competitiveness, as we say, which increases the infrastructure needed for rules, paths, information and communication technologies, and also – which are not money – better regulation. Counsel, we need to be more influential, we need to do more pedagogy, at our home and at other institutions, because, if not, we won't get out of it. It is a strategic sector to protect, to facilitate its activity. Also, obviously, this was very connected also to the rural world. It is not only an agrarian problem, depopulation; it is also a problem of guaranteeing public services and basic infrastructure in the rural world, so not only from the agriculture council, which would make it easier for us to fix a population in the territory. To ensure, of course, that small farmers have facilities to pull forward. How do we avoid the push of the dominant position? How do we avoid disloyal practices? How do you avoid monopoly situations? How do we avoid or modify the Food Chain Law? How do we improve inspection functions? How can we mention quality, IGPs, designations of origin? How do we support export? And it will. They are elements that are not of this law but that affect in a very direct way the productivity of these because we want to put them into use. Therefore, and as I said, lastly, as I said, also improve the view of the citizenry towards the process of food production: schools, communication media, labelling, etc. In short, important law, which has our support, and also that we have driven from the Socialist Group, as I said, but not enough. We expect a greater view and the inn in value of the agricultural sector and of food to the citizenry and from the citizenry; also of the rural world and of the import of a Catalonia in territorial balance, and, as I said, a joint strategy of different public administrations in favour of the rural world. And, finally, obviously, congratulate us on all the pleas we can pass this law today. A thanks to all the readers, to the managers, to the staff of Parliament, for their professionalism and help in the process of this law, and, as it cannot be in any other way, a thanks to the rapporteur of the law, to the Members of Parliament, to the Department of Agriculture, to the same councillor, to all the entities and people who appeared during the process, who have made contributions to us and who, obviously, have prevented us because we are here today making this vote. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.145.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then there is the word, for the defense of the reserved items, the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The word has the deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.146.0	Thank you, Vice President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, people who accompany us from the department, from the entities, first of all, I rise to defend the final position of the People's Party in relation to this proposal of law in the place of the deputy who did not follow up, that it is Alexander Fernández, who did not follow up during this legislature, and in previous legislatures there have been other deputies and deputies who have followed the intentions of laws, so much so that there was 2015 as there was in 2017. To place us, this is a proposal of law that it is to establish the legal regime for the protection and conservation of agricultural land, to combine various aspects, such as the production of food, but also of other goods and services; the economic viability of agricultural holdings and branches; the respect and protection of the environment, and the preservation of biodiversity. And I would like to summarise in a concept, which is to ensure the sustainability of agricultural areas in their different areas: forestry, conreus or pastures. However, as he often gets used to interpreting this concept of sustainability in a partial and exclusive way from the environmental point of view, I am famous and it is a good thing that in this law I have been perfectly defined what this concept of sustainability is. And it does so concretely in Article 3.3, defining it as a combination of different aspects, between them, obviously, the environmental conservation, but also – important element – the economic viability of the production of goods and services, inclusive, therefore, the food. And in this sense some of the considerations that our group presented precisely in the sense of reinforcing this concept of economic viability. We are keeping alive at this time a total of different items, from which the announcements that we will withdraw three, that are precisely, as I said, addressing the importance of economic viability of farms and the need to adopt public policies, such as fiscal incentives or presuppositionary measures. It is to say, as at the very least, at the proposal of the law it is already collapsing, through transactions that have taken place before and acceptance of other issues that have taken place before, as at the very least the proposal of the law back this will that there are tax incentives or presuppositionary measures. Now, you will understand that the confidence that we can have as a minimum in the current government, that it is incapable of even having the assumption, because this can be hard to practice is practically null, and even in the sense that one of the things that we keep alive and that we are voting for, precisely, is to establish a first tax incentive, and that it will presumably be rejected. Therefore, one thing is the will that expresses the law; the other, the realities of what the government is doing. Of the fifteen items that we maintain and that we submit to the consideration of this Ple, we highlight those that make reference to the space of high agricultural value, that for us cannot be space in disus, must be space that has agricultural activity. We also consider – and this went hand in hand with another point – that, in determining these areas, it is essential that business and professional farming organisations participate. This has been resolved with the transaction made by the Socialist Group and which, therefore, is also incorporated in today's vote, in this first of the transactions. But we also consider that, in the preparation of the Agricultural Sectoral Territorial Plan, we asked for the participation of business and professional organizations, which have already been included for other items, but also the Forest Property Centre, which groups private owners, and in turn these have not been incorporated. Or other items to consider existing uses and activities in agricultural areas that have not yet been allowed to maintain the character. I went – because I was running out of time – directly to what we consider to be fundamental and decisive in our position, which are those considerations in relation to the waste parcels and their covert expropriation. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] It seems that the law shows more interest in these disused, private, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.147.0	Vagi ending, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.148.0	...and its usurpation, even though they only represent the 4_percent of conreus, which is not to improve the conditions of agricultural holdings and branches...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.149.0	Ahabi, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.150.0	...that should be the true end of this law. Therefore, whether or not we accept these items will depend on our final positioning on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.151.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, to fix his position, has the word in the first place the deputy Marc Parés, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.152.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, Vice President. Members, Members, Councillors, in the first place, wanted to start the intervention, therefore, congratulating the ponència, congratulating the council, because I understand that this is a law of consensus, a necessary law and, in the end, a good law. And in this sense, therefore, I have also incorporated myself, as you know, just as a Member of Parliament, a continuing gift to the work of Congresswoman Yolanda López in this question and, therefore, the first one that I would like to do is to particularly appreciate his work in the development of this law, as well as the work developed for the rest of the Members of Parliament, right? : Mr Solsona, Mrs Fornos, Mr Ordeig, Mr Domínguez. Also say that I felt very well attached to this incorporation. As I said, it's a law of consensus and necessary. I want to value the two questions; first of all, the need for this law. As you know, agricultural activity, agricultural activity, agriculture, timber, forestry, is the activity that occupies the most surface in the territory, but also the one that generates the least added value and the least occupation. And, therefore, here we have two elements to lay on the table. Just because it is the activity that occupies the most surface, it is the one that determines the most the ecological state of the territory and the conjunct of the territory. Bring in the cities and the protected spaces, right? , those protected spaces in which the biodiversity reserve is supposed to exist – a concept that I disagree with –..., between, say, the cities and the protected space there is the agrarian space, that we have to put in value and that also plays a key role for biodiversity; what passes to the territory is essentially what passes in the agrarian space. And we're in a moment of change, we're living a few decades of change. It has been mentioned before, in the last fifteen years we have lost more than 45,000 hectares of agricultural land, for two reasons. A major motivator, a first motivator, has been the processes of urbanization, of uncontrolled urbanization, but also of planned urbanization. In other words, we have to be aware that during the 1990s we have grown in urbanization processes through urban planning that did not take into account the value of land alone. Looks like it, doesn't it? ...,and good news is that this guy gives you a fall in this and he wants to value the land alone that you're going back to, so, according to which groups seemed to be deprecating and seemed to even think that even those who wanted to preserve the land alone were posing through development. To be sure we have added that for our development, from the conjunction of society, green infrastructure, agricultural infrastructure is absolutely essential to sustain our lives. The second element that explains this change in the uses of the forest has been the growth of the forest; the growth of the forest, which has to see basically with the lost, with the abandonment of the agricultural activity for depopulation. And this is another element that I need to put on the table and that I understand you want to fight. The agricultural activity, for this reason, at the same time, has concentrated on only very specific, on the most fertile plans, on the easiest to work with machinery..., and we have filled them with fertilizers coming from outside and pine trees to feed cabins that are absolutely disproportionate, causing also great problems that we have to recognize on the table, such as the problem of purins. And, therefore, we must be aware that this law must also open the door for us to give answers, to give solutions, before these new problems. Areas with high concentration of agricultural activity with problems such as purins, areas with plenty of agricultural activity for depopulation. What you are telling us is that we are faced with a problem of territorial nature and that, therefore, what we need are responses that work in the territorial sphere. And this one does it. And, therefore, take a step forward in this new conception, too, of what is the relationship between the urban and the rural environment, of what is the relationship between nature and society. As Geographer David Harvey says, there is nothing in cities that is not nature. Therefore, we have to understand that in order to make the cities work we need the camp, we need the countryside. Today, I understand, we understand that the key is in the union of the territory, and the real challenge is to get the whole territory to have a good ecological functioning, to lock us in and our activities. The solutions, therefore, we understand that they must pass through this territorial area, with the technologies of the 21st century, and recovering or posing on the table territorial synergies that allow us to recover the landscape efficiency. How do you answer all these problems? I think the object of the law very clearly fixes these elements, don't I? : territorial management and planning, protection and conservation logic, public intervention – and, therefore, this is an item we have in store. Through territorial planning and, also, through the Register of disusual soils, we have to intervene publicly to activate, to give support to this sector. And, therefore, we disagree with the views of Ciutadan and the People's Party, which seems to be laying forward..., the private property before the public interest in this land alone. And all this with the objective, with the multiple objectives of producing food, of being economically viable – and this is an essential element – of being sustainable and respectful of the environment and of softening food sovereignty. In this sense, I would like to highlight four elements of this law. The first is the logic of territorial equity. In fact, the law speaks of "territorial balance; we like to talk more about the concept of "territorial equity, because we understand that it is a concept that implies both the recognition of the geographical diversity of our territory's landscape, as well as a bet for territorial justice, that is to say that you see the viscous of the territory have access to the same services, you also have access to occupation, to human development. And, therefore, this concept of how we do it because in those smaller towns, in those areas with less infrastructure, the citizenship that we live there we have access to services and occupation. Second element, the sobriety. It is a law that places emphasis on the Catalan field in order to be able to develop projects, sectoral planning in the agricultural field, and therefore we can decide. And here we also gather the message presented by the PSC, and which has been negotiated, about the importance of participation in the definition of this model, and, therefore, that the territorial planning that is to be developed, the land sector territorial plan, must be developed with participation in order to effectively define which is the agricultural model that we want for Catalonia. And, therefore, this idea of sobriety that is associated with us following the citizens, the citizens of Catalonia who can decide which food model we want in our country. Third element, sustainability. We need to understand and understand that this is only a limited resource and that, therefore, we need to plan it and we need to take account of these limits. And the fourth element, before, was public intervention; through territorial– phonental planning; through cartography, which also recognizes the law, and here I also want to fill in the need to complete the map of Catalonia's soil and also fill in the waste that we had when it stopped financing, the year 2009, an instrument that was essential, as was the map of land covers, of the CREAF, and that provided us with very valuable information to be able to plan our territory. And public intervention, also through infrastructures that support the agricultural sector, but also with the idea, therefore, that those infrastructures that are produced in the agricultural sector have this assessment of the impact they have on the sector. I, lastly, reptes'n'over. I mean, the law is a good instrument, but it gives us work to keep working. We understand that the law must allow us to move forward on a new model; on a new model, based on territorial synergies, which fills up agroforestry mosaics, and that, therefore, we are working with this idea of agroforestry mosaic; that it is more efficient, also, energetically, because the capitalist system that has put in it is an industrial agricultural model in which we have to feed fossil fuels to provide this system, and we have to move forward with circular metabolism models. We believe that planning in the agricultural sector must enable us to move forward with models, advanced, sustainable, modern, which respond to the great problems we have; problems, as before, such as the accumulation of nutrients in concrete points of the territory. And lastly, it leaves us too, this law, you're afraid of hanging, right? I mean, work to do. And I want to take advantage of it to tell the councilwoman the need, too, don't I? Therefore, to provide this law with resources, to make a statutory presentation of this law, to draw up the plans that are provided for in the same law, and at the side of the chamber, also for the themes that have remained open and that are also necessary to address. I'm not going to point two. One: forest management; it is to say, within this 64_percent of the territory in which there is agricultural space a very important part is forest, and, therefore, we also need to intervene to see how we manage this forest and the risk of fire associated with what we have today in the territory. And two: urban and peri-urban agriculture; the law talks about urban agriculture; we need to be aware of the growing demand for Community horts, consumer cooperatives, pay-as-you-go cysts and, therefore, they also have a role in this urban and peri-urban area. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.153.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Nàtalia Sánchez, for the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.154.0	Well, good morning to all of you. First of all, I would also like to add to the congratulations and thanks for the people, the deputies, the staff of the house..., for the work done, also in the sector. They know very well that the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Creed We have not participated in the procedure of this proposal of law, despite the fact that we have not demanded in the past its parliamentary process – in fact, the last legislature we have presented until two times the petitions because they are processed –, as well as the energies of our parliamentary subgroup we have to focus on a priority. That doesn't mean – that I'm very clear – that it's not important. In fact, thirty-five years without the law and without the instrument that preserves the soil and the agricultural areas... thirty-five years later, we consider it an important step and a positive step especially to give response to the needs of the sector. We thought that it was important to deal with this law to talk about food sovereignty, that from our perspective it is based on local agro-ecological production; on access to the land in a fair and balanced manner; control over the then, and therefore, fight against the transgenics; right to the page to produce quality food; production of proximity to fair prices both for the pay and for the user. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to take advantage of this procedure to make a genuine agrarian reform. He hasn't been at all, either, but, well, we think that's a good step. We, said this, consider that, having not participated in the whole procedure, it is consistent that we do not participate in the vote, and therefore that the process... well, that the culmination of this process is positive with the consensus that has been generated. That said, I will take advantage of the time that remains to pose and report here to the Parliament of Catalonia some facts that cannot be overlooked. Now even Desokupa's mafia is once more collaborating with the Mossos d'Esquadra in the barrio de Sants de Barcelona, concretely on the Gayarre street. Desokupa's mafia today entered illegally, without any complaint, without any court order, for the land, to a piss where there are six families – one of the inhabitants of these floors, pregnant. Have they entered illegally, and the Mosses they made? Once again they have shown the close collaboration with a mafia that has proved to be formed by ex-policies, paramilitaries, and others...; it has been shown that Desokupa has deep ties with groups of the extreme right and organized crime; an impulse manager, Daniel Esteve, who has publicly threatened the deputy Maria Sirvent..., that, certainly, Maria Sirvent is not here today, in the Parliament, because he is together with the popular movement of defense of the habitation of Sants, with the Group of Habitats of Sants, defending the veins that are found confined in this fish, that, we insist, has been..., they have entered there without judicial order, they have been extorted by three or so far as they are concerned. We take advantage of this space to report it again. Mr Buch told us, as a result of a question from Mrs Sirvent, that we were lying, that there was no collaboration with Mossos d'Esquadra. Today Mossos d'Esquadra has sent various people to the hospital; one of them has just ruled out a cranial hemorrhage, which we hope is not so, because, when Brimo has arrived, before this situation, he has removed the extensible tips and unannounced he has begun to carry against the veins defending with his head, with his color, the veins. We ask ourselves: "Is the organic collaboration with Mossos d'Esquadra final? Is Desokupa a new squadron unit? Why is Squad mossos now identifying the veins and not protecting the right to housing of the people and families who live there? Why aren't they worried about the fact that there's a mafia going into buildings without court order? The situation is very serious; a hard organic collaboration in the name of real estate speculation, a brutal violation of rights. We insist, we would like to see Mr Buch here and to take advantage of the direct references that we are making to him to give explanations in his parliamentary office about the very serious situation that is going on in Barcelona once more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.155.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group and has the words of Congresswoman Irene Fornos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.156.0	Good morning. Thank you, Vice President. Agriculture Councillor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food, today I want to greet you especially, since not every day a law is approved, and much less not every day since this Faristol you can talk about agriculture. He will advise, deputies, deputies and the rest of the people, who today also accompany, the people of the sector, the members of the Taula Agrària, people of the department, general director, welcome everyone. Well, today, after a long time – we are talking about the end of the summer of 2017 – we will finally approve the Law of Agrarian Spaces; a law that, as I said in my first intervention, I want to remember that we could already have it if you hadn't been for the application of Article 155, the evil article that stopped parliamentary activity and prevented and stopped the way of this law, like so many others – and yes, Francisco, 30 years ago we waited, but could not have been able to come –; a law, therefore, from the previous legislature, from the mother of Constellar Serret, a political exile, to whom I once invited all and all to remember. [[Greetings.]] At the beginning of my intervention, I have made a brief remark that there is little talk of agriculture in this Faristol; on the other hand today we approve an essential part of which reminds us of the need to protect agricultural food producing areas, and it does so with a view to the future, thinking of objectives such as Agenda 20-30, food sovereignty, but also the importance of the production of necessary and indispensable food for all of us. We're what we eat. Perhaps it would be a good thing if all the speakers also gave him a little more attention, since other very important issues, such as the territorial rebalancing or the depopulation of the rural world, came from this too, which affects the peoples of our country. Now, I'm going to come in a little more to talk about what makes the law we approve today. We've talked a lot, we've done various classes between the rest of the companies that have already spoken, the rest of the speakers, but, well, today we finally approve of a law that has to stop the growth and occupation of the sun derived from the urban growth. We are talking about peri-urban agriculture, which ends up in peripheral areas of cities and which have a special cultural and social value, beyond the mere production of food. A law that also has to stop the expansion of forest surface, which involves not only an intrusion into the agricultural environment, but also generates significant shares of legal insecurity. A law that gives legal cover where there isn't now. One law is the object of which is to order the management of the agricultural areas in Catalonia and to design the mechanisms and instruments necessary to give legal certainty to the owners of the farms. A law to complement the recommendations of the Plenary Assembly of the Alliance of the Endowment in Rome in July 2014 and sponsored by the FAO, which must boost the National Agenda 20-30 in Catalonia and complement with the objective of sustainable development, put the fame, achieve food security and better nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture. The aim of this law is to order the management of agricultural areas in Catalonia and to design the mechanisms necessary to give legal security to agricultural holdings, in addition to controlling the urban activities due to the end in the areas, and also to allow the laying of mechanisms to put into production agricultural areas in waste, creating instruments such as the land register to make them available to the sector. A law that promotes the continuity of agricultural, timber and forestry activity, and increases its efficiency and efficiency, protects areas of high agricultural value, which are in many places in our country, singular places where unique and concrete agricultural activities are carried out, already in culture, as well as by the singularity of spaces. A law that favors the generational replete, guarantee the future and survival of these spaces providing them with legal security, which guarantees biodiversity and management of the different natural ecosystems, which are the basis of sustainable development. Therefore, we are talking about a law with a lot of work at the end, not only of the same department, which has done a great job, but also of the whole sector, represented by the Taula Agrària, which has already approved the text proposal in July 2017; fact from the transversality and from the same territory; a law from the republican governance, in the horizontal, and which will now be the same territory that will have to adapt it to the needs of the low-end, and that we are convinced that it will be well-repentant for all those who still do not know it at all but know that they know about its need. One law that has improved its original text – and now it has also been added to the details of the question – in which other views have been taken into account which have also been considered important for the different parliamentary groups and which have not only taken it closer to other sensitivities, but which have also taken into account their views, both on the part of parliamentary groups and on the same department, and which have included many of their proposals. The speakers have already said, they have already been grateful for the appearance of all the fellows and of all those who have made their contributions, observations, or proposed some modifications, thanks to which our group has also joined. Among all those we have participated in the survey we have tried to make your point of view and those points that you have carried out have been taken into account and, as I said, the same department has also done so. I also think that I should like to thank not only the work done by the department with the proposed text, but also the follow-up given to us during the sentence, above all to try to keep and get to and hear the same Members that we have not been putting the foundation of the law, and also its essence, since on some occasions, and certainly with the will to make it even wider, we may have come out of the guide and its true reason and object. I think the ones we've worked on we've done with a lot of good predisposition to hear if we've tried to include all of them and every single one of the papers, including we've gotten on some occasion to some three-way transaction. And I think the fact that the very law of entry already counted on the agreement and approval and the recovery of the Agricultural Table, formed by the main representatives of the sector, has also made it possible for all of us to involve ourselves from a point of view of respect, since we are aware that at the end of the day it is the sector that really knows the real need and how to do it. Unfortunately, this work has not been the same for all parliamentary groups, since neither the CUP nor the PP have participated in the debate, and I believe that it would have been well to count on its involvement, especially in respect of the sector, which is often forgotten, and I believe that any occasion in which we, the Members and the Members, should take advantage of it. And here let me make an incis, while respecting the complaints and the intervention made by the Natalia, totally respectable, but also comment that the last time we talked about agriculture in the Wine Law, we also occupied this space, which is obviously a space of debate and claim that we can't all use, but I think it was also good for the sector to be able to speak a little bit more of this law. In short, that's why – and we're already making this point – we're not going to accept and vote against them, not just because they didn't come to defend them, but because, even though they've kept them alive, they're things that are linked to an original text, which surely, with the good agreement that we all had during the period, we could, including, deal with them. Also comment that many of the papers have worked and we have given them time to not leave them out if we do not have the necessary security, and in some of us we have been included more than one session. And in this sense I also say that, as much as we are voting against the ideas that Ciutadan has left alive, I believe that Deputy Dominguez will share and agree that we have worked together and with good will in all and each of his own, that his party has presented, that they have followed a good grip. Perhaps in all agreements they have not prospered by different reasons, some by law object or others because they left the door open to other interpretations, but there are still many in which we have been able to reach agreements and transactions that were in the same line of presentations for ourselves or for the Socialist Party, and I believe that we have finally been able to do so in a positive way, agreeing on what ended up improving the law. The same with presentations for the Socialist Party of Catalonia, of which they have only remained alive..., well, cap, no? There was one left alive, which has already taken it away. But in any case, we were grateful that we could finally make that deal that we wanted to make at the last moment, but that was not possible. In short, aggravate the work done for everyone, also for the readership, and his advice. And I will finish my intervention by commenting that when I had the chance to speak of the law, I made my own words to one of the representatives of the sector, when I said that Parliament now had the opportunity to bring forward a law that was widely demanded by the agricultural world, and I asked all of us to make it a reality. The pages of Catalonia have suffered a clear legal insecurity, and only since 2000 until the first dates on which it began to speak of the Law of Agrarian Spaces have been lost noranta_mil_hectàres de conreu a Catalunya. Therefore, today we approve of a law that is urgently needed. I think it has met with the objective, and we hope that with this law we do not only have tools to protect the agricultural areas, as the same name says, but also to keep our environment, a environment that defines our country as it is, of which it itself depends, and of which we all feed. Thank you very much, and let's congratulate ourselves on having our law. And from this space of words, from this space of parliamentary debate, I want to end using my seconds of intervention to remember today the Carme Forcadell, that one more time he has to spend his birthday undertaken and surely at these times attended to the Supreme Court. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.157.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Marc Solsona has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.158.0	Thank you, President. Let's go back, Counselor..., Counselor, Members, Deputies, Representatives of the Department and of the Agrarian Taula, assistants, public in general, well, I have already told the principle: it is a law from which on October 25th we made the first debate to the totality, they have passed seven months, in these seven months there have also been two electoral periods that have also made it impossible to approve it before..., I mean that, let's not say, it has not helped us either the political context at the end of the moments, not only the period of 155, but also this very same. And this has caused, as in the past, therefore, to put it in value, because we have all found the way that, as well as knowing that we were in a context of different electoral campaigns and periods..., we have found very well the way to understand, how to organize ourselves, how to seek the spaces of debate, how to also confluence with the department to clarify the doubts... Therefore, it seems to me that, as a question, let's say, we must feel very proud to have found the way and the way to be able to articulate a question in which we talk about agriculture, we talk about agricultural areas, we talk about the sector, we talk about how to do better among all things. It seems to me that it is also a thing, a factor also to be valued in this law. Naturally, remember, as Mrs Fornos also did, that it is a law from the previous parliamentary term – and, therefore, also here a record for Mrs Serret –, and in which we have, therefore, the witnesses, let us say, of a good job, with which we have been able to elaborate and modify it and, to me, to value and to fix a small one among all. Therefore, the object of the law, as we spoke before, was that we should preserve everything and close, because in the different appearances we have seen that there were many elements that we could have incorporated into it, and, if we had begun to incorporate it all, it seemed to me that we had distorted what would be the origin of it. That said, we were able to incorporate things that basically gave guarantees that..., such as the issue of ownership; the role of administration, with definitions of what is or is not an agricultural space; what we can incorporate or not into forest themes; at the level of urban planning, as we define peri-urban areas... That is, we managed to incorporate..., let's say, clarify the doubts that could be generated from a first reading and that the different sectors and trade unions and professional entities could see that they were not properly resolved. This is why the object of the law remains as follows: "The object of this law is to establish provisions for the definition, planning and management of agricultural areas in Catalonia, the determination of their legal regime and the regulation of public intervention assumptions and methods, to ensure that they can be used in the most beneficial way possible for the agricultural sector, with the aim that they complement their objective, that they are the production of food, goods and services, in the framework of an economically viable, sustainable and environmentally friendly agricultural activity, and in the time of the abolition of the food sovereignty of Catalonia. I'm making a parenthesis here. Congressman Dominguez said that it is spoken too often perhaps of food sovereignty. I don't know if that's the name, huh? , we also give it in question: maybe the problem, if you don't say "food sovereignty and say another..., maybe you wouldn't tend to have so many resistances sometimes. But in any case, this more semantic factor, so say yes: an object of the law is to try to enable agricultural only to try to produce food so that we can guarantee a greater food sovereignty, given the threat we have from different international organizations, which tell us that we are not coming for the self-sufficiency of this food. Therefore, we also said this seven months ago: it is a law with a language, with great tres, urbanistic. This will mean that the deployment will be very complicated. And here we have seen, in the ponència, that the colossal repte of the councilry will be, therefore, this: as we coordinate in a cross-sectional way that all these agents who intervene there– that they may be of the Department of Agriculture, they may be of Territories, they may be of Medi Ambient – may, let us say, converge into a single strategy, into a unit of action, and just..., that this rule can be made viable. And many times we talk about providing the standards of economic resources, and this logically as well. But I think that more existing human resources need to be provided, which is coordinated to make the coordination of this regulatory deployment of this law effective and the application, I say, many times, also of offices; therefore, it will require an important effort from the department so that it is possible. A law that incorporates an innovative, risky concept, which depends on how it is explained, can also logically tend to be a powerful ideological bias, as can be the topic of the land bank, right? , but ultimately it is to apply the common sense in an agrarian reality, in which we have detected the parts in which they can be provided. Here there are different doubts, as it was: "Is this going to cause the loss of property or not? And it's not, it's not losing ownership. « Here what paper will have the predominant Administration? Here what identifies itself is that the Administration is the one that has to avoid speculation and a misuse of interpretation, let's say, deviating from the norm. Therefore, here it is reinforced, with the reviews it has also strengthened this role of the Administration as a guarantee that this process of compilation of the land bank can be done in a transparent way and that it also avoids different types of misinterpretations or speculations. Therefore, with the idea of strength also reinforces... the ponència exams reinforce this paper. It is also logically speaking about territorial balance and, many times, I would speak more about territorial cohesion, not just territorial equity. But territorial cohesion, which is how we articulate these urbanistic growths in cities or towns in which, many times, in times of goodness, has been painted in the municipal urbanistic plans very residential or very lonely, let's say, urbanizable, eh? , which can then have an affect at the level of how we classify or reclassify the soil, because it can be done, at least temporarily, while it is not of this type..., can still be considered for agricultural uses. We've also managed to get ideas in this sense, which is that we can temporarily allow, beyond what is in the urban plans, this consideration. Logically, we also enjoyed having the debate tabled by Mr Rodriguez on his own behalf, and if he could not be on his own, at least, to the Committee on Agriculture, it was that he could not be in the hands of the different derivatives, neither on his own, nor on the Committee on Agriculture. Therefore, we, with this and given that the debate has been rich in this sense, also consider that the issues that remain alive today, here, we will vote against them and, logically, we will make a big deal of the opinion of the inquiry and of the transactions that, until the last moment, we have also been able to continue to sign and articulate, whether technical or still with some element of content. Thank you very much also to the reader and to the survey manager and to all the services here in Parliament. Basically, to try to coordinate the interests, let's say, of parliamentary groups, sometimes, with the governmental interests and with the ordinary dynamics of Parliament, sometimes, it's... we all go to the same place, but we go with different margins and, therefore, articulate the good march because this can flow and it can be approved it hasn't been easy and I know that efforts have been made in this sense, and I also want to thank it intensely. Also, obviously, to all the people who appeared; to the different unions and federations that have appeared and that have, let us say, helped us to understand better the nuclear need of this norm. Everyone says or the vast majority say that it is perhaps a law that is an iniciator, that it is an iniciator that will still need to complement much more, but that the value of the norm is the ability of this one to achieve that common point to try, so, truly, to tend, once and for all, a law of agrarian thickness. Therefore, this means that everyone has given in here on their nuclear objectives, as in organizations, in order to be able to develop the agricultural task, but it seems to me that, as a result of this consensus..., the Parliament today could not be otherwise, it must also continue with this consensus expressed at the length of these years, months of time and, in the end, already with this opinion, let us say, defined. Therefore, without further ado, thanks to all and all. Trying to talk about agriculture... that's not just about this law. We have the luck that we have in Parliament and in the committee other laws in the sector that will also help us to continue talking about agriculture. And a special thanks also to the counselor, for the determination and the work done in this sense. And, naturally, then, like Members of this House who also say they're out of territory – all that I think the territory is all, huh? However, sometimes, it is used in this way..., unfortunately – I don't think we just need to talk about territories when it comes to agriculture, but we have managed to make a law that prioritizes agriculture from any other use of soil. This means that we put agriculture at the same level as any used, legislative and legal in our country. Therefore, congratulations and congratulations to all of us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.159.0	Thank you, Congressman. Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.160.0	For allusions and contradictions with Mrs. Fornos and Mr. Solsona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.161.0	Anyway, we finish the debate and then, if it seems to you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.162.0	It's not over?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.163.0	No, no, because, now, that's what I was going to say, the councilwoman had asked for one last intervention, to make thanks, and anyway, then, Mr. Rodriguez, I'll hand her the word. He'll advise when he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.164.0	Well, good morning. Thank you very much, President. Members of Parliament; representatives of the Union of Pagesos; of the JARC; of the Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives; of Boscat; friends of Lleida's horta – also delighted to accompany us today–; company of the department, obviously, Director General of Rural Development, directors of territorial services, also a greeting to Alba Balcells, who has followed every day the batac of this law to Parliament; deputies and deputies; members, in short, of the ponència, I repeat, very good day to all and to all. Today is a very happy day for us, and we have to say it. And it's very good – I want to think – that congratulations are part of politics and that there are policies that make us happy. And today I have the joy of saying that the policies that we are going through with this law must make us all happy, in a sense of doubt. Today we find ourselves in front of a historical claim – you said, huh? – of our sector, a historical claim that, by the way, is real. Today, we will approve, for what it seems, the Law of Agricultural Spaces, this one that you already know all and all like the Law, huh? A law that, even though we're not all aware of it, you all know that it's a country law. It is a law of country because it is a law essential for the country, because pages and pages, because branches and branches are also indispensable for our country, if it is that we want and aspire, obviously – I hope so – to a modern country, to a country that knows, to a cohesive, prepared, sustainable, rich, ultimately plural, among many other things. I'd say Congressman Ordeig talked about it, huh? The year 2050 will have a world of 9,700_million people to feed and this means that we will have to produce 50_percent more food and that 90_percent of this will come from the better yields and, obviously, from the intensification of the conreus. The forecasts, however, indicate that in the developed world, the agricultural area will be reduced by 50 million hectares and directly affect the production of food. And, therefore, this means that it is vital or vital to protect agricultural areas because, as we have said and repeated 50_million times – and I tell them that we will repeat what you need – there is no food without agricultural areas. Therefore, the way we arrive and how we face this challenge will mark, no doubt, the future of many generations. That means that for us, more than just a need, pulling this law forward was..., it's an obligation. It's more, that means that for this country, and that means that for this government, more than an obligation must be a supreme good. A supreme good – and I want to say so – to pursue; a supreme good not only to pursue but also to absolve. We need agricultural space because they don't have food. And, look, I don't know about other places, but in this country more or less five feet a day, and if we get them to have good, safe and quality food, we might have a more vitamin-rich country, stronger for the opposite, than for the many, and for the revolutions that we have ahead. And with this belief we have worked very hard during the last legislature – it was also said – with Constellera Serret in the front. And this, too, we have done, to keep the text of a law that places the agricultural areas in the point of importance that they correspond to, as a food producer, I repeat, but also as a manager of the environment, and also as a country's territorial and social cohesiveness. It's like, Meritxell, we already have her here. [[Greetings.]] We cannot fill our mouths, and I want to make it very clear – and now that we are about to vote there are more MEPs in the Chamber, and I also want to say this – that we should not fill our mouths in the struggle against the depopulation of our communities if we do not pursue policies and laws that are strong and necessary as we approve of today. What this country needs are courageous laws, such as the Law of Agrarian Spaces. Today, however, it is just and necessary to continue to state that this law is the result of a joint work of the parliamentary groups, of the most representative organizations of the sector, of the professional colleges, of the municipalist entities, of all, and the value of having agreed on a non-minor issue such as the protection of the agricultural activity that is developed in the territory. I also want to express that my intervention does not respond to anything else – and I will end up, eh? , President – that at a willingness to deeply appreciate the collaboration of all parliamentary groups, and especially the Members who have participated in the debate. Francisco, many thanks; Óscar, Irene, in Marc Solsona, not just as a Member, but as the rapporteur in this case, also – this is a good rapporteur, say so, right? –; in Marc Parés, that we have not had the opportunity yet to know us ; the Yolanda, that formed part..., thanks. Thanks to everyone for the work I know you've done, it's been a good job and you've been able to preserve this consensus to a great extent at times not so easy, because we've also been in two elections, and that, say it doesn't help, huh? – no help – but you know how to do it, that is to say, very grateful. Collaboration is also expected, therefore, to continue in the development and subsequent implementation of the law. This law will allow us to protect the agrarian spaces, not from a point of view only to prohibit it, to do nothing, that is not that, but from the point of view of the protection of the agrarian activity. Now you will no longer be able to re-condition the agricultural activity, you will not be able to leave until a couple of parties remain unviable; you will no longer be able to carve rural paths that when it is carved what passed... – President, that you are here – it is difficult to communicate between farms. I mean, they can't put the hard stuff on us anymore. It is a law that proposes to take over the territory at the time of defining its application, since the specific land plans will be those that define, with the participation of the people of the territory, obviously, this model of co-management. And let me also hate it before it is over, the law also sets out other measures to dispose of the entire agricultural area on condition that it is productive, through the creation of the register of agricultural parcels in desus, that they claim – and that it is very clear – the mobilization of abandoned parcels or that they are in desus, basically because young people have easier access to the land, but also – to ensure the competitiveness of these farms. In this way we make a very decisive contribution to fixing the people to the territory and avoiding its depopulation. I just want to point out that it's not about affecting property, like someone's insinuating, huh? I mean, it's a brave law – like it's supposed to be all laws – but neither are we, huh? , to do extremely rare things, on the contrary; if it does not make it easier for those farms that do not have productive activity, I repeat, they have the possibility to be logged and to be put into production. And it's already, so, I'm done, huh? It's a law we give a tool, huh? This law is a tool, because it puts in the hands of people different instruments that are deployed according to the interest and the ability that the territory shows to do so, applying that policy that we call "Republican co-management and that we have marked ourselves as an echelon of legislature; a new tool that must also help us to ensure the mobilization of the land, the defense of the rural world, like this space that we understand, that we want to hear, that we explain, that it is a space that generates wealth, but it is not only a generator of wealth but also of opportunities for our country, that it is also a producer of food. Thank you very much to all and to all to make possible a law that, in the sense of doubt, will mark a step forward and a step later in the protection of agricultural land and the preservation of food production. We're here to work, we've come here to work bravely, huh? And if we're strong enough to do this, I'm also good enough to be good enough to deploy it and apply it. I count on all of you to make it possible, because this country is still a country where the page and the store fight, and with the deployment of this law fight, sense of doubt, with the force that corresponds to a country that wants everything, because it simply can everything. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.165.0	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Rodriguez, yes. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.166.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, to Mrs Fornos, who has made an assertion that it is repetitive, and that, as such, I believe that it also deserves our nuance and punctuality, that it is to blame the application of 155 to the previous legislature that it is not possible to do the processing of this proposal of law. Tell him that he has absolutely the whole reason for the world, and therefore the responsibility lies with those who caused the application of Article 155. As many times as you say, so many times we say. And the second question. Home... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.167.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.168.0	...we can't hold back that we can't go to the stand to defend the items; enough effort to present items. But, look, it's just like you're missing our thoughts, saying, "Oh, how they didn't come to defend... because you sure want us not to be or defend our position. So we'll continue to defend our position with the view, with the views, and, as my partner says, until hell freezes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.169.0	All right, Congressman. We shall proceed to the vote. We shall proceed in the first place to the vote on the reserved items of each parliamentary group; we shall then vote on the two transactional items, a technical item, and finally vote on the text of the opinion. First of all, we will vote on the reserved items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The record that the parliamentary group has withdrawn items 6, 94 and 96. That's it, huh? [[Pause.]] Yeah? We shall therefore vote on the opinions Nos 23, 49, 87 and 97 of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 39 votes in favour, 89 against, no abstentions and 3 Members or Members present who have not voted. We are now voting for the opinions 67 and 70–67 and 70 – of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. Tables 67 and 70 have been rejected by 36 votes in favour, 89 against, 3 abstentions and 3 Members or Members present who have not voted. We will vote now, or we will vote now, more clearly, on the reserved items of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, but on the record that items 9 and 26 have been dealt with and, therefore, we will vote more forward, and that the one that remained alive, number 43, has been withdrawn. Therefore, we proceed directly to vote on the reserved items of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The fact is that the parliamentary subgroup has withdrawn items 2, 20 and 24. Is that it? Right? [[Pause.]] Okay? Therefore, we vote in the first place on the issue number 48. The vote begins. The item number 48 was rejected by 39 votes in favour, 89 against, no abstentions and 3 Members or Members present who did not vote. Let's now vote for the 100, 103 and 106 exams. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by three votes in favour, 88 against, 36 abstentions and three Members or Members present who have not voted. We now vote on items 7, 15, 41, 54, 59, 62, 68, 78, 82, 93 and 95. The vote begins. This group of papers has been rejected by 3 votes in favour, 125 against, no abstentions and 3 Members or Members present who have not voted. We are now voting on the compromises that have been signed for the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to move forward. In the first place, we vote for the first transactional issue, amending item 9, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar. The vote begins. This compromise has been adopted by 92 votes in favour, against, 36 abstentions and 3 Members or Members present who have not voted. We are now voting on the second transactional, modification of item number 26, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The vote begins. This compromise has been adopted by 92 votes in favour, against, 36 abstentions and 3 Members or Members present who have not voted. Let us now vote on the technical question in Article 9, which is to replace requalification by reclassification. The vote begins. This technical question was approved by 128 votes in favour, against, abstentions and three Members or Members present who have not voted. And finally we will vote on the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The opinion was adopted by 125 votes to 3 with no votes. Thus, the Proposal for the Law of Agricultural Spaces has been approved. [[Greetings.]] We suspend the Ple until two-quarters of the late four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.170.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Decree Law 8/2019 of 14 May, amending Law 6/2017, 9 May, of the tax on non-productive acts of legal persons]] [[203-00016/12]] The fifth item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 8/2019, of May 14, amending Law 6/2017, of May 9, of the tax on non-productive acts of legal persons. [[In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-President of the Government and the Councillor of Economy and History will first intervene to explain the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. Vice President, when you want to.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.171.0	Good afternoon, President. He will advise, counselors, deputies, deputies, benevolent, to build a free society for us that the citizens have present, we have present, that we are part of this society, that we must involve ourselves in order to improve it. It is important that we all participate in public life, that we worry, that the education system works and remains of quality, that we worry about caring for those people who have difficulties, that we worry about increasing the productivity of businesses and the improvement of working conditions to the workers, that we strive for an inclusive and cohesive society, that we seek for a healthy life, as well as that of everyone else. In order to build a free society, we are called citizens in actions that tax their government institutions, in which they have placed their trust, because you guarantee all these objectives. In the same way, in order to build a just society, we need citizens who actively collaborate in the support of the welfare state, who know that their efforts are returned to them in the form of quality public services that guarantee them much better living conditions than if they do not have social coverage. And we are citizens who work together with the public record, in an honest way, which responds fairly to their tax obligations. And we must all be aware that when we do not comply with our fiscal obligations we are damaging the good functioning of our society, we are going against a more just and freer society. A few days ago we said that one of the priorities of this government is to fight corruption and tax fraud. And indeed, in the past few years we have all been equipping ourselves with tools to fight against corrupt practices in public institutions. When public resources are spent by institutions to satisfy private interests, it is also bad for our society; it is promoting unfair practices that cause serious deficiencies in our political and social system. The fight against corruption, therefore, is not only against fraud at expense, but also against fraud at tickets. In the next three years, the Department of Vice-Presidentship and Economy and History, through the thirty-two offices of the Tax Agency of Catalonia, has carried out a total of 207,685 control actions that have allowed a total of 740_million euros of replenishment to emerge. The fight against tax fraud on the part of the Government of Catalonia, in those taxes we manage, has allowed us to bring out these 740_million euros of supplementary collection to which it is already done voluntarily, in the framework, therefore, of the plan of prevention and reduction of tax fraud and the promotion of good tax practices. The fight, therefore, is not only against tax fraud, but also against those legal loopholes that allow us to avoid tax evasion; therefore, with the appearance of legality, a fraud of law in the use of tax legislation to circumvent the obligations of contribution, which are..., this tax evasion is equally harmful to build a fairer society. We must reduce, therefore, the margin of those bad contributors of..., who may have to reduce the amount of taxes they have to pay by means of an incorrect use of the rules in force. And, in this sense, Law 6/2017, of 9 May, created the tax on the non-productive acts of legal persons as appropriate to the Government of Catalonia, which came into force on 13 May 2017. I would like to recall that this law was the object of unconstitutionality appeals, filed for the Government of the State, Mr. Mariano Rajoy. The law was automatically suspended until the Constitutional decreed, on 28 November 2017, an interlocutory lifting its suspension. But then the application of Article 155 of the Constitution, the de facto suspension of autonomy, which took place until June 2, 2018, was already in force in Catalonia, now just a year ago. This situation made it impossible to approve the regulatory deployment, as well as any changes to the law. And recently the Constitutional Court issued Judgment 28/2019, of 28 February, which stated that the tax is in line with the existing constitutional framework. Certainly, the new government of the State, which had been in existence for a year, did not withdraw the unconstitutionality appeal. Validated, therefore, the non-productive tax of legal persons and taking into account that this tax has already been deserved – therefore, the obligation for taxpayers has already been generated – for the financial years 2017, 2018 and 2019, 30 June for the first year and 1 January for the next two years, the Government considers it necessary and urgent to take the measures that reverse the draft decree to implement and recover the tax and to provide the taxpayers with the tools to comply with their tax obligations. The law decree, as all of you have read, contains a single article, a transitory arrangement and a final arrangement. In the first paragraph of the single article, Article 4.2 of the law governing taxation is amended; the reference period is modified for the amount of the non-distributed benefits of the entity, the legal person, which must allow a certain right or right not to be considered unproductive and therefore tax-excluded; it is a technical modification that makes it possible to apply this article in a clear and precise manner. The modification consists in the deletion of the term "acquisition", contained in the phrase "obras comets" with the limit of the import of the benefits obtained both in the same year of the acquisition as in the last two years before; in this way, in deleting the reference to the year of the acquisition, the period to be taken into account is always of the year that the tax and the previous two is settled. In the second paragraph of this single article, Article 8 of the original law is amended, which is what sets the quota. For one band, some conceptual clarifications – it replaces the entire quota by the tax base and the liquidated base by the tax base – and another by the arithmetical base, for which it imports the remainder of the taxable base of the second tram, in which it replaces the amount of EUR 167,129,43_ for the amount of EUR 167,123,43_. In the third subparagraph, Article 10 of the original Law is amended. It regulates the presentation and input terms of the autoliquidation, which is fixed in the period from '1 to 30 June of each year. As you all know, this is a tax that does the formula of closing the tax obligations of the estate tax. So, help us, above all with the information that will come from this tax, to do... to re-tax for the assets that surrounds it. As you know, the estate tax is a tax on physical persons, which we pay people, so they pay, which is within the bounds, but all of us are taxed. But there is a practice, that is to put them on behalf of commercial companies, on behalf of legal persons, certain benefits that ultimately, therefore, they end up enjoying de facto..., they are of the natural person. So, on the other hand, that practice of putting a certain right in the name of the company so as to avoid taxation through the estate tax. Therefore, despite the inspection activity of the estate tax, this figure of the tax on the non-productive acts of legal persons, allows us to make this function of sealing. And, therefore, it has all the logic that we can associate the term of presentation of the non-product asset tax with that of the asset tax, because they go with one another, accompanied. However, the transitional arrangement, and taking into account the time elapsed since the approval of the law and the entry into force of the tax, allows an extraordinary deadline of presentation and admissions for the years that have already been deserved, 2017, 2018 and 2019, which will be made from 1 October to 30 November of Enguany. Finally, the final provision establishes the entry into force of this decree, therefore, which was fixed at the beginning of its publication in the Official Gazette of the Government of Catalonia. Finally, I would like to indicate that it has been necessary to approve this law order in order to make possible the inn in the margin of this tax during this same year and not to delay its application to the next exercise. The tax on non-product assets of legal persons, as I have explained before, seeks to reduce tax avoidance and avoidance practices consisting in transferring personal assets – with housing, second-residences, iots, high-range cars, among others – to corporate structures to hide real ownership and thus reduce the payment of taxes such as the tax on assets. In this way, we achieve a more just tax system, since people who properly tax their assets can suffer a hardship on those who transfer legal persons, businesses, some of these benefits. And a more efficient tax system also makes it possible to invest in actions affecting the economic activity of the company and not in personal and private actions by members and family members. It has to be put, therefore, every thing in the cove that touches it. Companies exist to carry out productive activities, not to accumulate and store the luxury benefits of their partners. If someone has a property or habitat they would have to tax as a property tax and now they have it on their business, it's not right. From here, the need to validate this law decree. It is a good tax, progressive and stimulating of wealth creation, which enables a fairer redistribution of the wealth of our society. So good the recap of this tax was zero, because I would like to say that everything is already taxed as it is to be taxed and that no one is looking for traps for the back door. We hope we can apply it as soon as possible. We will be fond of its impact, that we hope it will have positive effects for the joint venture of our society, for the increase in the productivity of our companies, too. And we'll make sure that it's not a new tax-free practice to avoid paying taxes that are paid because of the assets that are available. For all this, ask the House, on behalf of the Government, to validate this decree that we have just presented to you. Thank you very much for your attention. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.172.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Then we move on to the intervention of the groups, to fix their position. It has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr José María Cano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.173.0	Thank you, President. Counsellors, advisers, Members of Parliament, Members of the public who accompany us, very good afternoon to all of us. Today, Mr Vice-President, you are presenting us with a decree to put the tax on non-productive assets of legal persons into effect quickly and retroactively, a tax that I would like to remind you that was one of the events that the CUP used as an excuse to approve Junts pel Si's budgets, and it is a tax that seeks to record all the assets that a company has been acquiring and that, according to its wording, are considered unproductive. That is, it is a tax on the assets of a company. We today voted against this new own tax, and we did so because of its lack of rigour and the tremendous damage it would cause to Catalan companies. It is essential to meet certain requirements when implementing a new tax. Firstly, a new tax must avoid double economic taxation; that is, in this case, it must prevent it from being paid twice for the same asset. And that is precisely what is happening and what is caused by this tax. The trading company will have to tax for this tax that it wants to activate today and the shareholder will again tax for the same concept in its declaration on the assets. And it is that the fact that a company has such assets makes its shareholders obliged to include the value of the shares in their equity statement. Hence the double unfair economic imposition of this measure. It also acts with very little rigour by launching the holder that this new tax that will double record business assets is a tax that will only affect the rich and luxury. That is not the case, gentlemen of the Government: this is a tax that companies will bear and that what they will do is generate problems and legal uncertainty to the business fabric of Catalonia. And it is also not very rigorous to say that this tax, which will double and unjustly bear the companies that we have left, because it will only affect those domiciled in Catalonia, has the main objective of redistributing wealth. Look, the main source of employment and, therefore, of wealth redistribution is economic growth, and it is clear that in order to distribute wealth first what needs to be done is to generate, and the best way to redistribute wealth is for employees of Catalan businesses and self-employed people to receive a decent wage, and it is clear that in order to achieve what does not help companies to pay a new asset tax. Therefore, they must be serious and not disguise their purely collectory and procedural desire with the excuse of redistribution of wealth, because recording the economic capacity of Catalan companies does not redistribute wealth, the opposite happens: it stops generating itself. Secondly, a tax must be technically well defined and must avoid creating legal uncertainty and unnecessary costs for taxpayers. However, the wording of this tax does not contain a clear definition of what it considers to be an unproductive asset within an enterprise and leaves many questions open, and an indefinite taxation always generates legal uncertainty. But we already know that you are specialists in paying the ground for the flight of companies from Catalonia. We also have to consider that, from a business point of view, commercial companies have as a priority to maximize the economic performance of any of their assets, so the tax is already based on the wrong premise. On the other hand, it is essential, when implementing a new tax, that the positive effects in terms of collection and in terms of social benefit outweigh all the negative effects of its implementation, both direct and collateral that may occur. In this case the tax technicians themselves have already pronounced themselves and have said that they will have very little or no collection. In fact, the economic memory of the tax is already a veritable misconception. It is a memory that comes to the following conclusions: the Government does not know the number of taxpayers concerned; the Government does not know the number and typology of the goods; the Government does not know the possible collection of the tax. What I don't understand is how bold they are to have a tax if they don't know everything they need to implement it. Because the answer I think is very simple, and here too, as always, goes the process, which ends up distorting the decisions: the only thing that moves the Government in raising this tax is to get the company tax database that the Spanish tax agency has. Please note: this is by chance the only objective you recognize in economic memory. They do not know whether there will be collection, but what they do know is that it will have very high management costs for both the taxpayers concerned and for the administration itself. From the taxpayer's point of view, not only will they have to face up to their payment, but companies will have to bear the administrative costs and legal advice to know how to properly quantify and liquidate the tax. And from the management's point of view, it is necessary to approve models, establish an effective management system and collection system, a taxpayer-appropriate advisory and information service and a tax control system to verify correct compliance. All this obliges us to allocate human and material resources, which all have higher costs than the planned collection, and makes this tax figure totally inefficient from an economic point of view. Gentlemen of the Government, the balance between what will be collected and the costs incurred will be negative, a negative balance that will not contribute at all to the effective redistribution of wealth and that will cause the totally opposite effect: it will diminish resources to companies and will diminish their capacity for economic growth. And I have to tell you that the resources used in the management of this tax, if you really want to avoid tax evasion, would certainly be better used in strengthening other areas of tax inspection or management, where better results would be obtained, which would certainly help to collect more without increasing the tax burden. And also tell them that this law is no useful tool to fight tax fraud, as they try to sell us. To fight tax fraud, what we need is to allocate resources to tax inspection, rather than wasting them on a scam to clone the state tax agency. And instead of trying to clone the, guided by their nationalist desire, what they have to do is improve their collaboration with it, which they prevent, even if they veto their participation in the tribute papers we process in Parliament. But the worst of it all is the effects of their irresponsibility. All this collection and mismanagement is affecting Catalan fiscal competitiveness. Our autonomous community is the autonomous community with more own taxes and one of the lowest rates of fiscal competitiveness in all of Spain. These bad decisions have consequences: companies and assets take it very much into account when investing or not in Catalonia and when making the decision to relocate themselves or not. Look, their disastrous management and irresponsibility lead to the flight of businesses and the expulsion of investments, and that will have a negative impact on the well-being of citizens and the redistribution of wealth. You have to be very aware that decisions like today do not come free to our economy or to the Catalans and their effects are more serious at a time when we need to regain legal certainty, at a time when we need companies that have fled Catalonia to return, at a time when we would have to pay attention to the business return plans we have proposed from Ciutadans. But at this point, at a time like this, you do the opposite: you approve measures, such as this, that pay more ground for the flight of companies. Have they not stopped to think that this measure will lead to the flight of more companies, companies that are already transmitting to us their concern about the legal uncertainty they provoke with this tax figure? A legal insecurity that companies aim to avoid by changing their social and fiscal domicile outside our autonomous community, so as not to suffer harassment. Do you not even realize that art owners are currently considering the possibility of carrying their works of art out of Catalonia? This Act does not include exemptions in the property tax when the paintings or objects of art have been assigned by their owners or museums or cultural institutions, not for profit, for public display. Do they not really foresee that, in addition to the flight of companies, their irresponsibility also has the consequence of the flight of art in Catalonia? And this law will also have effects on small owners of rented properties, so that they will increase the costs and, thus, the rental price. Can you explain to me what this measure has to do with redistribution? And in addition you claim that all this is retroactive, you want it to be since 2017. Look, in the past plenary I told them that when we thought that we had reached the bottom, something worse for the Catalan economy always came. In the past plenary we said that what had touched us was a separatist government with the economic and fiscal policies of Podemos populism. For I was short, I have to admit, there is something worse: a separatist government with the economic and fiscal policies of Podemos and those of the CUP in charge of taxes. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.174.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the turn of Congresswoman Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.175.0	Thank you, President. Late afternoon, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies. Well, just two years ago – said the vice president – approved this tax promoted by two parliamentary groups, a tax – I said at the time – to record the great fortunes. So, the headline sounded pretty good; what happens is that ultimately the tax was a lot more modest than it was in its beginnings. In addition, it was a quick process – we are always in a hurry in this Parliament – and it was a single meeting of ponència, and it was also not possible to delve into a better job, in which it should have been this imposition. In fact, we did some research and we didn't accept any, we couldn't work in time, but we finally got this big fortune tax, which, as we say, was approved two years ago. Look, I'll use the words, at that time, of Mr. Coscubiela, because I was very pleased with the use he made to define this law. He said, "This is a placebo law. He sees, he believes that they are now concerned about the great fortunes, to have a more progressive fiscal policy, to make those they most have to pay, and, therefore, to conceal their lack of fiscal policy, of a fiscal reform, which is what Catalonia would need, with this law, with this tax on the great fortunes. It seems that it is very certain to use this word, to use this adjective, to define what this law is and which you are now modifying with this law decree. And I'm saying this because we haven't seen in this first year of government, now that President Torra is talking about it, so we haven't seen that Mr. Aragones has brought us any proposals, no one, about tax reform. What this country needs is a comprehensive tax reform that makes Catalonia's tax model a more just and progressive model. And we didn't see that, we didn't see that in the law accompanying the presuppositions of 2019, where there was no proposal on taxation; no, no, no. And now, well, you go here to explain to us and tell us that you have to be responsible, that who else has to pay more, that if you have an iot and you have it in the name of the company and it's for your family's use and enjoyment what you have to do is to tax... Yes, yes, and so much! And what you have to do, too, is make a serious tax reform, which makes you pay for the one who has the most, the one who wins the most and the one who pollutes the most. And that's what you don't do. They have absolutely renounced the modification of the IRPF's Catalan tram, have absolutely renounced the modification of the inheritance tax and have absolutely renounced the modification of the property tax, but they come to cover their shames here today, to present to us this decree which technically modifies that imposed on the great fortunes, which you give, in order to try to cover their non-tax policy, their nullity fiscal policy in this country. And, therefore, we, as we did at that time, will abstain from approving this decree. Honestly, we don't understand why you're doing these experiments. In fact, this tax did not introduce him to the government, he introduced some parliamentary groups. With the introduction of parliamentary groups, there was no economic memory, nor did we know what we were talking about: if we talked about 30_millions, 300, 2..., we didn't know. We didn't know exactly what the recap of this tax was and, as Mr. Cano also said, we don't know it now either. That's to say I don't know exactly, so what they're trying to do and what they're chasing this tax. Well, I've got a little clearer today, because Mr. Aragones said: "Well, the point would be that so much good we don't receive anything because people do well and pay tribute to the iot, the joys or the piss. But, listen, isn't that a fraud? I mean, if what we're trying to pursue here is tax fraud or tax evasion, we have control, inspection resources, we coordinate with the Spanish tax agency... but do we have to make a tax to try to change the citizens' pipelines? Like a lot of them, right? I mean, we put in a fine to try to persuade. No, no, What we think we should do is fight clearly against fraud and tax evasion by asking for resources. And we're not clear, Mr. Aragones, that you're putting them down. Look, if they really want to pay those they have most, come here with a tax reform of the taxes that we have said to them: IRPF, estates and assets. That's what he has to do: come and change the fiscal model of Catalonia, and don't bring us this tax that we don't know much about what it's going to entail. We don't think you're making up for this lousy tax policy that you're wearing, so, a year without making us. And let's not say it to ourselves, the Platform for a Fair or Intermon Fiscality has said it in its later reports. You have a policy... Catalonia has an unfair and regressive fiscal policy, and that's to change it. We need to change it for social justice. We must make the one who has the most, the one who inherits the most, the one who pollutes the most, and we are not doing so, and there is a possibility that this can be changed. Look, you talk a lot about fiscal sovereignty, and they really like to talk about having more fiscal sovereignty. But they don't use all the tax sovereignty they already have. To change these taxes, which are already our competence, is to increase and improve in fiscal sovereignty, and you do not. And they say we should have more, but if they don't use what they have! Therefore, what we would say to them is: "Listen to me, make a serious modification of the taxes for which we already have skills and in which you are not asking the one who has more than more to pay, for social justice. And why obviously it should, therefore, also increase, that it is one of the objectives... I would say to Mr Cano: "One of the objectives also of the taxes is to recapitulate; to recapitulate, not because it is, only because we want to maintain the state of welfare. That, by the way, it's been going on for some time now with the Spanish and Catalan flags. Here we have also seen details, but also in the Spanish State. And what we want is to have tickets to improve the quality, for example, of our education or of our sanitation. And when it comes to this Parliament, too, it often happens that "we pay a lot of taxes and that Catalonia is paid a lot of taxes and that we are all unhappy, so look, when we look at the data and compare ourselves to Europe – that I always say that it is better to compare with those we want to assimilate to and not with those that came after us – so it turns out that Catalonia and Spain have one of the lowest fiscal pressures in relation to the European Union. The Spanish fiscal pressure is at the top of the European countries, at around 32_percent of GDP, while the average is between six and eight points above this. I mean, we don't have a much higher or higher fiscal pressure than the rest of Europe, on the contrary, we're under. There is ability to increase taxes; not to everyone, to those who have more, to those who have more ability to make an effort. So, let us not say that we should push taxes on everyone, we are saying: to the one who has the most power. Because what has always happened in this country, or in the last few years, is that efforts have been made to those who could do them less: you will function, pensioners... And, therefore, what we do today is: "Home, perhaps it is up to those who already have the opportunity to put a few euros more into the common market. And I say it again, and not because I do. Miri, yesterday, to the Commission of Education, who went there to defend a motion for a resolution on some schools of Mataró, I had to listen as the two spokespersons of the government groups told me that they could not pay..., that is, that they could not give free food to children and young people, children and young people with special educational needs" because of the detail, they said, Mr Aragonès. What kind of noses, huh? To say that you can't pay free groceries to people who have special educational needs for retail has a lot of fabric. Do you know what these two doormen should do? Talking to you and saying, "Listen to me, I can't defend this. What you have to do, Mr Aragonès, is come here with a tax reform that allows you to have more tickets to pay free of charge to these children and young people who need special education. That's what you should do, because that's why you need a tax reform, to get more tickets and improve the quality of education, which is on the ground. Why do we have good educational projects? Yeah. Yesterday I was in an AMPA at a school in Mataró. Projects educatius entreccadores, attractius. What's the problem? That we don't have the resources to take good care of special educational needs, or people with diversity... there's not enough resources. So, listen to me, come here with a tax reform of course, because this one that brings us today, these modifications of this decree to the tax on non-productive goods do not know how much it will enter, do not know how much it will recapitulate. Honestly, Mr. Aragones, we have a lot of needs in this country and I've put the brush in education: we have a lot of problems with inclusive school, a lot of problems with school segregation. We are..., not here at which, but in the face of inequalities, with many difficulties because the social ascent worked – how it worked in the 1990s – and what it is to put resources. And the resources are achieved with the fiscal sovereignty that we have, imposing taxes, increasing taxes on those they have most. It's just that it's very simple. And don't bring us taxes here that you want to avoid conduits that you can avoid through..., of choice and tax fraud, putting more inspectors, more control or a clearer coordination with the other tax agencies. We cannot vote in favour, we have already abstained at the time and what we are asking of you, Mr Aragonès, as we have been asking for for many months, is a tax reform indeed. You are from a party that is called the Republican Left of Catalonia; therefore, please, give an example of this left, of this progressiveism that calls for a model of just and progressive tax reform. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.176.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Deputy David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.177.0	Well, deputies, deputies... Counselor, knows that our group, during this parliamentary term – and not only – has as one of its main priorities the struggle against inequality and redistribution of wealth, especially taking into account also, in Catalonia, which are social situations and which are also the financial situations of the Generality, in order to obtain more resources. And obviously throughout our legislature we have made proposals to increase fiscal capacity in Catalonia, to redistribute wealth, to fight against inequalities. Already in your time, from our parliamentary group, we voted in favour of this bill, so you would not feel that we have not done so either, and so we will support this decree, would we not? Yes, it is true that we had the feeling, at the time, when the bill was approved, that we were before a tax figure that was to throw a coin into the area and that we did not know exactly what would be, in this case, the real impact that could have so much to collect more resources for the Generality, but above all also to help to redistribute the wealth. There was a first element, about which it is certain that we had doubts and there were other groups that directly said it would be unconstitutional. And it is true that, in the end, the Constitutional Court has ruled that this tax is in line with the constitutional framework and that, therefore, we are not before a tax that is on a taxable fact that is, in this case, charged for another tax. Therefore, it is possible to do what at that time we did as the bill; therefore, we put it in the way. We contributed in its moment to introduce, I believe, better in the text of the law, for example, to remove the limit free of five hundred thousand euros; we also introduced that it should be recorded, for example, what made reference to joys and works of art. That is to say, in this case, we understood that I did not feel that you had any business that you did not have in your activity..., not just the fact of boats or cars, in your production model, but that we were also talking about joys or works of art, so that was also to be pursued. Even though we agree with some interventions that have been made by other groups that, obviously, the ultimate objective should not be merely or should not be primarily the fight against tax fraud, because we understand that this has other ways to do it, and that the fact that it should be taxed, therefore, could also give the feeling that we were, between comets, "allow practices that, in the end, are tax evasion or even tax fraud. One of the things we were worried about – and we're still very worried about – was knowing what real capacity to recapitulate this tax – and it's referring to now as well. It is to say, one of the, say, particularities that the inn was set aside by this bill, which is obviously legitimate, is that it did not come pushed by the government of the past, by a government of the Republican Left and at that time also Democratic Convergence, or PDECAT, under the umbrella of Junts for the Yes, but it came pushed by two groups jointly, in this case, by the group of Junts for the Yes and by part of the CUP. We voted against the totality reviews and tried to improve the text. But this has caused that there are no elements that are, I would say, important when a legislative project of these characteristics is promoted, which is to know, for example, what capacity for recaptancy has this tax and, in any case, that there has been a precept report from the Economic and Social Council. Actually, we also hoped that the economic memory, didn't we? , in this case explained to us, therefore, what forecasts did the Department of Economics have, which was the capacity to recover this tax, so, to see the power it had, the need it had this tax and, obviously, if we compared it to other tax figures, so if we were before a figure, in this case, a tax burden to help fight inequality and to redistribute wealth. But in any case, the economic memory that has come to us, and I read it textually, says: "This tax administration does not know, however, the name of taxpayers affected by the tax, as well as the name and type of assets that conform to the legal definition, that are included in the concept of non-productious actius and, therefore, subject to taxation. And they just said, "So, you don't know what the impact of recapturing this tax is. It is to say, therefore, that we still have the feeling that we are throwing a coin into the area; if I may, that we are following before a tax that has a symbolic high charge, but that it does not have a high charge of replenishment. We'll see... or, in any case, it doesn't have a high redistribution charge for the rich. And that we have other instruments that we have not been able to approach, as at least until now, in the legislature, that have much more ability to redistribute the wealth, that have much more ability to generate tickets to make social policies that the Generality needs. We haven't referred to some in this legislature, for example, the modification of the tax, have we? , of the IRPF, the imposition of estates, documented legal acts or even assets, where we have..., it is true that there are certain groups that he wants to eliminate, but there are other autonomous communities that, say, with the regulatory capacity they have, have more trams than those that have the same Generality, right? So, until now it has not been possible, we will see..., and we have placed them, in any case, on the presuppositions of 2020, to see if this will be possible to address it and, therefore, we will see if this tax is capable of generating more resources for social policy making, which is what we believe to be a priority in the market we have today in Catalonia, where we still have many deficiencies, since, obviously, the financing of schools bressol; university taxes of the highest in the State, and do not want, in this case, to reduce to 30_per_cent; we still have deficiencies in this case of primary care, of medicines and medicines, of health personnel..., therefore, we need..., we believe that we need more resources, right? It is also true that he will not answer us now, but in any case, we are giving him some thoughts, so that they can then, for other lives, bring us here. The first is: it is obvious that it is a type of deposit that is based on autoliquidation and, therefore, what you plant is that we place it in the market now and that the liquidation of the merits of the year 2017, 2018 and 2019 is produced before November 30. We already understand that there is this will that it is like this, it's obvious that as before better, but we also want to translate it which is the real ability, if we don't know who they are..., don't we? in this case, we have no information or the same department has no information about the name of the taxpayers affected, or the name and type of benefits. It's to say, as we can, in the end, have a real recap capacity on something about which we don't know the names of people who would have to pay this tax and, finally, what they would have to pay this tax, and we want the payment for the years 2017, 2018, 2019 before November 30. And in this case, more than that, they do it through a self-liquidation mechanism. So, what we're also planting at the government is, what real ability you have to know, isn't it? Obviously, this type of goods and that are, therefore, in this way under an umbrella of fraud or tax evasion. It is obvious, and so does the same economic memory, that it would be very good for us to keep the information on the tax of companies, that at these times it is the State, so we would also like to know if they are doing business with the Government of the State in order to have this information, because the Tax Agency of Catalonia, therefore, can work because there is an information campaign and because, also, we do not return to a situation, another time more, of tax fraud, where many contributors do not come out of these goods or do not end up taxing them. And, finally also – I finish with this – is to say, what is it, if any..., therefore, from the Tax Agency of Catalonia, the inn on the march of an information campaign about this new tax, which, moreover, informs all the taxpayers who are in this situation, who have to liquidate these three years: 2017, 2018 and 2019, so that, as a minimum, we begin to recapitulate. Let's hope that at the end of the year, then, with the monthly economic performance reports we really know what the capacity for recapitulation of this tax is. If, in the end, as we believe, we are ahead of a much more symbolic tax than we really are with a capacity to redistribute wealth and recaptability, to which we place it once more, it is that we are taking on a progressive tax reform and, in this case, progressive, it is worth redundancy, and also environmental, and that, therefore, we face the great debate on taxation in Catalonia, which has to do with those taxes that have a real impact both in recaptancy and in redistribution of wealth. And this, today in Catalonia, about which we have regulatory capacity..., we're talking about estates, we're talking about the IRPF, we're talking about the property tax and we're also talking about the possibility that we have today on the table, already with text on paper, about the bank's new tax through documented legal acts. I think that here we have an important fiscal capacity, we can mobilise around practically between 500 and 700 million euros. I doubt that tax has that ability, do you? It's a recap. Therefore, in any case, we place it in the presuppositions of year 2020, to see if, this time, we do, with this tax reform that Catalonia needs, especially the service of the people who need it the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.178.0	Thank you, Congressman. The next act corresponds the return to the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP; it is the return, therefore, of the deputy Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.179.0	Well, good afternoon. First of all, and respecting the intervention of Mr. Aragones, I think it would have been a detail even though he was to name the CUP one time only, because this is a proposal that we made and worked together. And Citizens have named the CUP three times, but you haven't done it once. For another band, we do not want this decree or this modification of the Law of Actius not produced, this tax, to be an excuse for not making this tax reform of funds that called both the PSC and the companies of Catalonia in Comú. Because it's real, you haven't had any kind of intent to make a change to either the estate tax, or the IRPF, or the assets... And, as much as we tried, we didn't get it to last year's legislature, nor did we get it to this legislature. And, therefore, we understand that what is needed is a profound tax reform. What is this measure that we worked together? According to us, a humble gesture to fight the fight... or to fight the tax fraud and, therefore, to fight the tax fraud. It's true that it's a modest measure, but we think it's interesting. Now we're in a period of paying rent, and everyone knows that working capital, so it's heavy, and I'm sure the people who are listening to us or the people who will listen to us know that when they're going to pay their tax on income they pay money. And it is also, then, that those legal persons, that those enterprises which are included, for example, a Miró, or a Ferrari, or an iot or a plane, therefore also pay, because these goods are not affected by the business activity, are not necessary to develop the business activity: they are for personal use and recreation. And what we want is for no one to do an elusion of taxes and, therefore, it's paid and we all pay the same, but we do it according to our ability. And, therefore, who has more pay and who has less pay. For another band, Ciutadans' representative said that the best way to redistribute wealth is to increase the competitiveness of businesses. So look, the data doesn't tell us what you say. What we are told by the data is that productivity per hour worked has increased more than average wages; that while Spain's companies have increased their profits by 200_per_cent per year in 2016 compared to the previous year, we have not yet recovered the wage levels of the year 2000. And, therefore, it is clear that more business competitiveness does not mean more redistribution of wealth, because in the end this competitiveness has gained at the expense of the misery and precariousness of most workers. And we could still do a deeper analysis of the situation if we had more time, to end up demonstrating this reality. You say that this tax is a tax that is not strict, that we are making an invention here, that this doesn't work... So look, the coordinator of the Hispanic Technical Union, Miguel Ángel Mayo, said that this was a valid tax to try to bring out the luxury benefits that are personal and that are hidden, and consider, moreover, that this tax will allow the Tax Agency of Catalonia to obtain very valuable tax data to extend the tax fraud thread. I haven't listened to any proposals to fight tax fraud; I'll like to listen to it, and I'm sure if you make a proposal to fight tax fraud, you'll find it on your side. And lastly, what we want to express is that we will try to actually redistribute the wealth, and we will follow it from our four humble scons, because the correlation of forces is what it is. But for now we understand that approving this law today with these modifications because it can already be effective and effective is a first step.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.180.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.181.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, MPs and MPs, the first thing I need to do is to rebut the initial and conceptual idea expressed by the Economic Adviser and to deeply disagree with the concept of free society that you have expressed. For you – it's frequent on the left, huh? – for you, society is free when you decide what you're doing with the citizens' money. For us a free society is the one where they are the same citizens who decide what they do with their own money. Therefore, I think it is conceptually very different from what you have expressed in relation to what is a free society and what we are convinced is a free society. Therefore, with this first premise, I would ask you not to be too quick to do the tax reform required by the PSC, Podemos and the CUP, because I believe that if you get involved in doing one of these things, the citizens of Catalonia will lose more freedom. In relation to his decree. In relation to the decree we have to start talking or we have to talk about the law, which is at the origin of the debate. The problem is not just the law, but the law. We already wanted to oppose this law, from the first moment until later, and basically the arguments are the same. It's inefficient law. Someone said: "So good that it is not a symbolic law. No, the problem is not symbolism, the problem is the effectiveness of a law. Why? Home, so because the doubt is not so much in the recaptancy level, I think that few people have doubts about the recaptancy level: it will be very low. The doubt will be whether the management costs will be so high that they will make this tax absolutely inefficient. I mean, it's gonna cost us more resources to put this law on the market than not to do it. It would be much more effective and much more effective than all of these resources that you can allocate to manage this tax is effectively intended to fight fraud. And this is the second element of discrepancy: this is a tax to avoid fraud, and the self-liquidation fan. That is to say, you come to say..., or you expect those people who enjoy acts that are in the name of businesses, to evade taxes, to self-liquidate Mr. Aragonès say: "Hello, I evade taxes, I come to pay to you his tax. [[You're looking for the bottom and the rialles.]] Really? Actually, if they believe it, what's going to work that way? No, no, But, in addition, it was a poorly planted tax, because of the iniciators, in addition, the tax type was lower than the property tax. When we made them see this circumstance, then you changed the tax type and matched it to the property tax. But you really expect them to come and say, "Hello, I'm defrauding you. I come to pay them the tax, because I am disappointed in you, because I have a good business that I take advantage of. Keep going. It has been said..., but it is so, and the feeling of the Constitutional, moreover, also puts it in evidence; and we have experience in Guipúscoa, precisely, that what the taxes of these characteristics do is promote tax relocation of businesses. Well, I guess that's already happened to you; I mean, in fact, in the past few years, we're not full of examples, are we? But, listen to me, that doesn't exactly do you any favors at the joint venture of Catalan society. What you're promoting is that there are relocations, tax changes. He talked about double taxation. One thing is certain: there is no double taxation for the tax fact. For the tax subject, yes; for the tax fact, no. That's what the Constitutional Court says. But, ultimately, actually, there's a double taxation on the same object, okay? And, therefore, we conceptually do not share it, politically we do not share it, nor can it legally be acceptable. I, finally, the issue of competitiveness, obviously, does not contribute in any way. Moreover, we have a bill to suppress this tax. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] And the decree just read the fan you, one, to avoid regulation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.182.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.183.0	... avoid making the rule – that they also suppress it from the law, they already do the law decree, it's simpler –, and second, to try to recapitulate three years. But I think the inefficiency will be clear with these three years...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.184.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.185.0	Therefore, our vote will obviously be contrary to the validation of this decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.186.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Lluís Salvado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.187.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Well, I'll try..., I had a prepared speech, but, given the interventions that have occurred and the whole glue of imprecisions that have developed on the part of some of the interveners, I'll try more quickly to respond to some of the things that have been planted. And before that I will try to make a statement to the..., or accompany, or make the same statement of recognizance, as the company of the UPC was commenting on now, that this is an imposition that is born of a proposal of law driven by the UPC and Juntes for the Yes during the previous legislature and that, in any case, the fatherhood and motherhood of this project badly in the deputies Salellas and Reguant, together with other members of the Group of Juntes for the Yes, and in the contribution of legal knowledge and knowledge about the tax props of the current Director General of Taxes and of the current secretary of Heritage, the Lords Espasa and Caba. In any case, on some of the questions that have arisen, to see, from the outset, this is an extrafiscal tax. Therefore, if anyone considers or expects this to be an imposition with a recaptancy vocation, that is not it. If anyone believes that this is the tax of great fortunes that at the time came to Euskadi, that is not it. It is not the property tax, it is not the IRPF: we are ahead of a strictly extrafiscal tax and that its will is not to recapitulate, but its will is to be a more effective tool in the fight against fraud. And in this sense, it brings infinites of them because the Government of the Generality and the Catalan tax agency have many more tools to fight the fraud. Some clarifications in this respect. Right now, the spokesman of the People's Party made a certain wedge over the autoliquidation, with certainly contradictions. For a band they say: "There are huge management costs, when it's just a self-liquidation. A self-liquidation is that the company compliments the self-liquidation and presents it; this is the huge management costs that the Catalan tax agency has. Therefore, huge management costs, res of res. In the second place, obviously there are management costs, because we will work in the field of proof, in a proof that we can do – and that we can't do now –, in the measure that because we have a law that allows you to arrange and claim certain censuses of assets that are in these hidden moments by the companies, because you have a law that you give cover we can ask for this information, which we can't now..., because if you don't have skills you can't ask for these censuses. And this, according to the General Tax Law, allows the agency to have this information. Information that we will allow us to be much more effective in the fight against fraud. And if some consider that the Catalan tax agency does not have to have this information, directly what they are saying is: "We protect, we cover up, those who at this time are defrauding. The fact that no evaluative memory is present is also in doubt. Obviously, we're ahead of hidden heritage. And the hidden heritage has a characteristic, which is hidden and unknown. And, as it is hidden and unknown, it is impossible for the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia, at these times—or anyone—to make a valuation, a quantification of what is unknown, what it is. For another band, there was also the fact that the target, as the vice president said, is zero recap. And it's obvious: it's not a voluntary tax, it's an extrafiscal tax. And when we say that the recapitulation is still zero, it means that if zero recapitulation is achieved, it is that all the hidden heritage has ceased to be, that all the assets that companies have at their disposal and the fruits of their owners, of physical persons, that will cease to be, that is, the elusion will cease to be there, because this heritage will become explicit and will cease to be hidden. And that means that companies would no longer deduct the acquisition of this assets from the VAT declaration and that would increase VAT receipts. And it means they'll stop deducting the expenses associated with these benefits. And, therefore, we will have more tickets, not the Generalitat de Catalunya, but the conjunction of the tax administrations of our country. And this will generate more recaps, and that means that a little bit later, as it is the will of an extrafiscal tax, that its recaps will go to zero, the same way that we explained, at the time, that what we would want is that some day, from the sugary beaker tax, the recaps will go to zero, and that would mean that consumers would stop consuming sugary beakers to pass on much healthier drinks. On the other hand, it was also proposed, on the part of Mr Cano..., that, certainly, he made the same speech that Mr Espinosa made two years ago, that I should read and that he made exactly the same speech, that he did not change the subject of double taxation, that perhaps two years ago he had a certain feeling that someone spoke or doubted that there was a double taxation, but after a ruling by the Constitutional Court that there was no double taxation, that today there was no tax on this part of the speech two years ago has little rigour on this aspect. There is no double taxation, as the Constitutional says, and it is not easy for the Government of Catalonia to approve a tax that the Constitutional does not consider double taxation, because even in the digital canon the criteria of the same European Commission on which it was double taxation, in the case of VAT, and the same Constitutional one contradicted what the European Commission says and considered that the digital canon was a double taxation. So, look, it's complicated that the Constitution doesn't consider it double taxation, and in this case, it hasn't considered it. And, obviously, he didn't consider it because, unlike some speeches made, it's a bill, it's a law, it's a law, it's worked in a very appropriate technical form and it's allowed to pass a very complex, very innovative tax..., it's allowed to pass the filter of the Constitutional Court. Some were predicting the flight of entrepreneurs, as they also said there would be a zero recap. If there's zero recap..., get out of business, hardly. Some have raised legal uncertainty; the law is passed, it is public since the last years, unfortunately. So, legal uncertainty, zero. They have had enough time to adapt – their structures and their decision making – to this law, which is more than two years old and which, therefore, today, can begin to apply. Legal insecurities, only in those that defraud. That's right, in those who have the so-called assets, yes, they have legal insecurities. And if they want to leave, then I feel it; surely, other autonomous communities will embrace them with more taste and with more "charity." In Catalonia, those companies that fail, that cause tax evasion, in a systematic way, are not very grateful, because what can get the receipts of these companies we will improve all folds improving the fiscal culture of our country. On the other hand, this logic of these acts was also raised, which, if they are in the hands of headlines, should only suffer those who are doing it badly; those who are doing it well, should not suffer in absolute terms. And, in any case, let's hope that this will follow one more tool so that the Catalan Tax Administration can continue to do this extraordinary work that is being done during these last years, especially since 2015, from the moment when the Fight against fraud Prevention Plan is approved, which, as you know, because it was made public, 2015 allowed 190_million euros of fraud to rise; 16, 170; 17, 197..., and this year 2018 has increased 183_million euros. Look, one of the things that we did during the previous legislature was to arrange, for the first time, for our geopolitical environment, for the calculation of the tax rate, which is known as the tax gap. This is only calculated by those administrations that have the vocation not to go out on pressing wheels explaining the fraud they have detected, but they have the courage to explain that fraud they have not detected, that potential recaptancy that has their system. And this is one of the few administrations in our political context that has done so, and this has shown that we still have a lot of work to do in the area of recaptancy, fighting against the fraud of the estate tax. And this tool..., I am aware that we have a lot of way to go in the fight against fraud in the heritage tax, we have a tool that we need to allow to be more efficient, to have more ability to fight to bring out those who evade, those who evacuate assets from their title with the aim of not paying the taxes that would correspond to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.188.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, finally, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.189.0	Well, good afternoon. Members, Members, Councillors, Councillors, today we are debating this decree law, which has its foundation from its approval, as the fellow Members have already said before, in Law 6/2017, and therefore today we will try to put this law into operation with the approval of the decree law. But I thought..., and in the interventions of the Members who preceded me in the use of the word do not make it – and I think we need to stop – there to think for a moment – at the impact of Article 161.2 of the Constitution. That is to say, this law was approved – the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia – and automatically, therefore, the Rajoy Government, as has also been done so many times by the Rajoy Government or the Government of the colour that follows, of the PSOE, therefore, come, with the abusive prerogative of Article 161.2 of the Constitution, and automatically results in the suspension of any provision that is impugned before the Constitutional Court. This is a precept that there is no type of prevention, background analysis, but that, automatically, with its simple challenge, it produces its suspension. So, what's going on? So it was passed a law by the Parliament of Catalonia; its sovereignty is automatically, ipso facto, challenged through Article 161.2, and we find ourselves later, two years later, that we are today approving this decree. Therefore, all those who defend the Constitution and defend the sovereignty of Parliament and fiscal sovereignty, therefore, should also make us a reconsideration of this prerogative, which normally makes use of the Spanish governments, which is that of Article 161.2. That said, this law, this law we're talking about today, so, it's... as Deputy Salvado said, it has an extra-fiscal purpose and what it claims to be..., and I read it also in the parliamentary debates that there was between the CUP..., and I read it also as Deputy Coscubila said it was a law that had placebo effects, right? And, therefore, I believe that here there is a compromise on the part of the Government of Catalonia to pull this law forward. And, in fact, I now remembered that, in Junts per Catalunya's election program in the Congress and Senate, this law... and therefore this policy given by the honourable Member Sirvent, modest, but interesting, therefore, was already in Junts per Catalunya's election program. Therefore, to this decree we will give support to this law, because we understand that it does not have a placebo effect, but that we have a compromise, in this sense, of the government program. Mr Cano listened carefully, as did Mr Romero, the Member of the Socialist Party, and when you talk about the purposes of this tax, so, listen, the Deputy Saved said very well: this tax has an extra-fiscal purpose, which means that it is going to be zero, and that what they claim is a redistributed and, at the same time, economic growth. And these objects are plasmen in the text of the law... that I disagree with what they said, I think there are no indeterminate legal concepts, but that they are automatically explicit in the text of the law decree, and that what they want, therefore, is to avoid, right? , that these non-productive acts pass to acts that are produced. Therefore, this is one of the first ends. When he speaks of double taxation, therefore, the same as that said to him by Mr Salvado: the Constitutional Court has already issued its resolution. And I believe that, from this decree, one of the impacts, Vice President, will be, therefore, that, with this fiscal policy, what we are doing is that these actions are produced when they are now in a situation of unproductiveness. This decree also favors economic growth because it enshrines those acts of those legal persons – not all of them, because the decree establishes limits – that are not intended for economic activity; therefore, it defines very well which is the legal mark. And when you say that it affects economic growth, I think the decree makes it very clear that it does not. When he talks about the other effects of the law decree... it's avoiding, isn't it? , politics, evasive practices, avoid tax evasion, trying to make businesses, these legal persons, in the context and in the assumption, in fact, that they are under the law decree, therefore, add economic capacity through the taxable fact. More than that, this taxable fact: therefore, immobile goods, motor vehicles with a power equal to or greater than two hundred horsepowers, lleure vessels, aircraft... Therefore, the taxable fact is correctly – correctly – delimited. And I will not repeat the technical aspects that Vice President Aragones has repeated. An objective_quarter is to encourage a more productive use of acts, so that legal persons who are in possession of them seek to use their assets more efficiently, so that they are not unproductive to be productive. And, in this sense, I call an expansive fiscal policy for giving out these unproductive acts. Also in the economic memory, and I think it is related to this extrafiscal character of the tax, fits this law with the law decree. Why? Because it is understood that it does not form part of the structural pillar, or basic piece, in the words of the Constitutional Court, and, therefore, through this decree, it is absolutely legal. [[Widow's remorse.]] Finally, I also say that this taxable fact has already been deserved and that, therefore, 2017...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.190.0	Silence, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.191.0	... – fem as the class... –, 2017, 2018 and 2019, so you can already do these autoliquidations. And finally, when we talk about these taxes, Congressman Cid also refers to the assumptions, which I think we need to find. I think the best thing we can do is pass the tax on independence. And he remembered, when we talked about this tax on non-productious acts, a report by Niño Becerra that analyzed the fiscal deficit from the year 1980 to 2016 and raised the xifra to 570,000_million euros. I Niño Becerra asked: "Do you imagine you could have made Catalonia with these 570,000_million euros? Can an idea be made of the investments that could have been made in sanitation, education, communication, dependence, cultural installations...? And the worst – and it reminds me of many of the interventions that have been made here in Parliament – of those that now criticise deficiencies in sanitation, education, communication, dependence or cultural installations are those that have contributed that Catalonia, in the present day, has this funding system. Therefore, as we were on the election program, we agree and support this decree. We think it's a law decree with different particularities and specificities. We are in favour of a zero-recovery, because it will mean that this step will have been taken from unproductive acts to products, with these purposes of elusion and avoiding corruption and tax fraud. And above all, what we cannot forget is this fiscal deficit that exists and that, in order to exercise fiscal sovereignty, what we find ourselves in is a Spanish government that every day resorts to Article 161.2 to suspend all those decisions of fiscal sovereignty that we approve in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.192.0	We're calling it a vote. Mr. Cano, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.193.0	Yes, for contradictions with the Lord Saved.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.194.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.195.0	Mr. Saved, you've tried to get away from my intervention. The doubt I have is whether he did it by ignorance or not. You should know that there are two types of double taxation: economics and legal. The double economic imposition, which is what I have explained here, is what is produced when for the same act they bear two different passive subjects. Therefore, there is a double economic imposition. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.196.0	Mr. Cid, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.197.0	For contradictions with Mrs. Geis and Mr. Saved.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.198.0	Thirty seconds, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.199.0	Mirin, our group was going to vote in favour of this decree, we will finally abstain. Because, of course, a tax that your will is zero recap is not a tax, it's another thing. And, therefore, in front of face rents and in front of aesthetic operations, with us not counting. If they want to make a tax reform like God tomorrow, they count on us; if not, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.200.0	We called for a vote. We shall proceed to the vote. According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, as you know, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. So let's go to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 8/2019. The vote begins. The result of the vote was the following: 68 votes in favour, 39 against, 23 abstentions. And so, with the result, the Decree Law 8/2019_is validated. In accordance with Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, a valid copy of the decree I ask the chamber if any parliamentary group wants to process this decree as a bill. [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] So since there is no petition in this sense, this decree will not be dealt with as the bill of law. [[Question to the Government on the system for the protection of children and adolescents]] [[300-00132/12]] Let's move on to the next point of the order of the day, which is the sixth, the question to the government about the system of protection of childhood and adolescence. Presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno. [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.201.0	Ladies and gentlemen, they are silent, if they are to come out, that we can proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.202.0	Thank you, President. Gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Councillor Homrani, Mayor of Rubí, Ana María Martínez..., members of the College of Educators and Social Educators, thank you for following us from the guest gallery. The 1st genera of encany, the Directorate General of Child and Adolescent Care, the DGAIA, had 9,736 minors; four_of_each_are minor strangers not accompanied. According to the calculations of the Consulting of Work, Social Affairs and Families, it is expected that around 5,500 MENA – twice as much as 2018 – will arrive during this year in Catalonia. The vast majority of these minors are male, more than seventeen years old and come from Morocco. It is not only in Catalonia that we have this problem; other autonomous communities, such as Andalusia and Madrid, also suffer. Mr. Counselor, I have said this on other occasions: the gathering of these unaccompanied minors exceeds the capacity of the same Generality of Catalonia. I recognize that they have made an important effort in creating new places; that a well-contained process requires a coordinated strategy with the Government of the State and an involvement of all autonomous communities, but also a good coordination between the different departments of the Government of Catalonia. Just as I recognize the complexity of the management of this migratory phenomenon, I must recognize that every day I am more concerned about the way in which they managed it. First of all, I think that they have focused a little on a message that I think is clear: eight of the children who have not accompanied Catalonia are joined, following their follow-up and social inclusion process with more or less difficulties, with certain conditions that are certainly better, yes, but without any type of criminal behaviour. Easier: Eight_of_each_less children do not cause problems of insecurity or incivism; only of_of_each_are involved in criminal acts, even with recidivism. I say this because, if we continue to focus or focus on these two Gods, we turn away, stigmatize and transfer to the people a little real message. I'll tell you more: the attitude of the DGAIA and the council, in some cases – I don't say it's vulgar – contributes to the stigmatization of this collection. These data, to quote the font, were made public by the Mossos d'Esquadra at the meeting of the safety board held at the Barcelona Assembly on 17 April, monographic on MENA, which neither the DGAIA nor the Councillor of Interior attended. So, fantastic coordination. Governor Torra-Aragones has supported a strategy in the time that – our parliamentary group has already said on other occasions – is completely wrong. You can't open Emergence Collide Centers where you don't have prior communication with the joints, without an explanation process to the veins and veins, without meeting the right conditions for the collide and the subsequent social work, and waiting, more than that, for no type of conflict to be generated. And if there is conflict, Counselor, you are also responsible, as a result, for a decision that is directly yours. And that's how this collection stigmatizes itself. A phone call to a mayor is not the exact communication we want. Assemblings which cannot say their own; which cannot be so warned if the place where the centre is to be located is the most appropriate, both for its type and for its location; assemblings which cannot be considered and which must manage the communication with the veins and with the veins, and, if they do not do so as you think, may even be entitled to have racist or xenophobic attitudes. Mayors and mayors are not executors of your orders. In fact, many of them and of them could, could give us lessons from how to integrate people from other countries of the world, and not five thousand: one hundred, two hundred, one thousand people; lessons from how to ensure coexistence in the barrel, that to achieve a good community integration we can count on the community, with the entities. It is not only a matter of putting up beds for the citizens; the children are not accompanied to school them, to form them, to generate spaces of finding, of living with the barrier, with the entities, they must hear which are their rights, which are their dues and basic standards of living. As at least they have the decency to acknowledge that they are doing it badly, and the Director General of DGAIA said on March 3 on TV3: "I have noticed that on occasion the assemblies are reticent. They ask, and with all due reason, the maximum transparency, clarity of information and that they can decide the location, which we plan to solve with a protocol that will be created after recent attacks on unaccompanied juvenile centers. The namename of the landing protocol, to what more do you mean this week, counselor, that announced the month of March, where is the protocol? The only respect we have is a scheme, it's a powerpoint. Did they use this protocol in the case of Rubi? The protocol is a call from an indeterminate person in the department informing that a center will be set up, as they did to Rubí and other gatherings? There is no protocol, there is no protocol; it has not been approved, and you come back to promise things you don't do afterwards. We can talk about Rubí, where there is certainly already a centre of minors, and you offer a _second; but also to Castelldefels, or we can also talk about Canet de Mar and other cities and towns in Catalonia of different political colors. That's not how things are done, Counselor. Its refusal to approve general State assumptions that provided Catalonia with €2,200_million and the government's inability to present some of its assets is already beginning to be noted. Yesterday, TV3, social entities denounced with a very graphic phrase: "We hold on one more, but we can no longer hold on, we are at zero. They calculate that you, your government, owe them 48_million euros. When will you charge, Mr. Counselor, the entities that run the children's centres? Who was the privileged mind that decided to change the form of payment, with the panorama that we have at these times? Some entities, as reported by the Confederation, have stopped paying names last month. There is no hot water in the winter – there is no hot water in the winter – and eating scarce food for dinner. When will you pay, Counselor? That same morning the councillor, you, acknowledged that you are at zero, that you are going to be in debt. While his vice president makes optimistic speeches about the Generality box, the reality is crueler: they do not have nor will they have sufficient resources to deal with a quality problem as important as the gathering of minors in Catalonia, as many MENA as they are not MENA and also expect their residential appeal. The Collège d'Educadors et Educadors Sociales de Catalunya has claimed a high quality. Consider that the centres cannot be designed as temporary spaces; over-worked centres, workers and workers with maximum tension, who suffer attacks on very better working conditions, some low and depressed. This is the situation, to give an example, of the CREI Can Rubio, a public center that suffered in July of 2018 a riot for lack of staff and that once again suffered yesterday at six o'clock: six young people detained for the Mossos, after assaulting with iron bars various educators. You haven't increased security in the center, as it was compromised after the prevention techniques are in place. One hundred and forty-seven agents for the president's pretorian guard; now, two agents for the security of the CREI is all utopia, counselor. A good part of the team is low; there is no psychologist, no sports gymnastics teacher, nor do you serve day care at the center. An example that could be transferred to other centres, such as the case of the CREI Castanyers. By the way, who is the person of reference of his advisor for the compliment of the Protocol for the prevention of aggression approved the year 2017? Let's see if we have any more luck, because entities, when they trick, don't get answers to this simple question. For another band, counselor, can you say in your parliamentary office that all the juvenile centres in Catalonia, which you have opened in the last few months, have an activity license? It's not a minor issue. Does the urgency justify jumping all the rules, that of asking permissions, for example, for works? Or don't they ask for them in case the assembly finds out they're about to open a youth center? If there are any of these centres without permission, Mr. Counselor, what do you think it would be good to do? The strategy on the MENA that you set aside in the month of generation, where they informed you that they would open five thousand places, how was it? Why didn't you go back to summoning a student work group? From the strategy was the fact of not paying the entities, as they are doing at these times? Your announcement plans and plans, and after the announcement, nothing. And they've already associated a calendar or a premise with this strategic group of unaccompanied minors? Or do you recognize that they don't have any money or that they don't know how to pay it? In a similar situation is found the famous collide model, the new collide model, which we do not know about again. Models, plans, punctual actions... Mr. Counselor, I would like us to make a global approach to how the DGAIA is working in our country, more than anything, because we will have to establish ourselves if the model we have is the best model we can have. There must be new complementary lives, professional families, collide families, social and labour integration plans sufficient and adapted for the child. The model of intensive educational residential centres, the model is exhausted, the inefficiencies outweigh the efficiencies, which also exist, but which are relegated in an unfair way. You're here to solve problems and not to perpetuate them. The opposition groups too, Counselor, we have a finite patience. If it does not complete what it approves of this Parliament for which it has to deal with the child protection system, we will have no choice but to start resigning. Catalonia needs a new policy of collide, coordinated and shared between governments, between councils, between municipal and supra-municipal institutions and with social entities and with the conjunction of the city. They announced it, but they didn't make it. I want to end, Mr. Counsellor, with a statement he made in March to RAC1: « In Catalonia – I said – we have no problem with MENA. That's right. The problem we have with his bad management. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.203.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, for the answer, the words of the Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, the Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.204.0	Thank you. Counselor... Deputy, after listening to his intervention, listening to her carefully, after the shouts of brave, after the smiles and laughter, we do an analysis. He was curious, because he started his intervention with the complexity of the challenge to address; we don't have a problem, it's a challenge. It has placed the responsibility of the State; nothing, the first thirty_seconds, after we have already forgotten. And then he went as a species of regular elements – some of us are not talking about – how to focus on the problems, the reptes, the management of a complex phenomenon, but he knows it hard, because he accuses of not wanting to give lessons just giving lessons of how to integrate these rare things that we have, people of alien origin, that come from other places, families from other places..., from whom we have to give lessons and who cannot give lessons. I found perfect. Look, we'll start... I'll try to go by order, because I wear two weeks without wanting to get into any things, because I think that..., and in the end each one does what he wants and what he considers. And it may or may not be wrong, but I think that in these two weeks there have been times when we have played with things that are then out of control – that are then out of control. And I think the role that surrounds me – wrong or not wrong – is to have a point of responsibility – a point of responsibility – because when we call this situation with electoral period it ends up passing what it ends up passing. And it ends up passing..., a report, that I don't know if he saw, the d'Antena 3. I don't know if he saw it, d'Antena 3, but it's for crying. And I'm just saying, it's for crying. The report by Antena 3, the report by Telecinco..., on a reality that was passing in a municipality of this country and in which, I believe that in an exercise of responsibility, I did not want to go in there, nor to go in to make judgments of value, they are aware of the difficulties that each one has, but I think we have to say so clearly: it was to cry. Then we worry about other things, but it's to cry. And that's what I'm saying, and every time I take it with me and plant it with me. From here, I've been in position. I'm in the state's presuppositions. There was nothing in the state's assumptions. I suppose it had to be the same thing that we had to do with the decree, the 40_million decree... that decree that only took into account the entry point of the guys and girls migrated alone, in what accounts is the protection system that they get them. This 40_million..., 1,060.000, if my memory doesn't fail, 1_million and escaig, which now I don't want to be wrong. Is this the logic of the PSOE government? The inability to plan? The inability to give information? Because to give our country has many virtues but now it does not have the virtue of having an extra-Community border. I suppose I should talk about that. Just as I suppose I should be talking about... I am absolutely respectful, and I can hear the difficulties of each of them, but it was almost a year ago – almost a year ago – that we placed the problem that was in the government sub-delegations at the time of regularizing the situation of people we have to regulate; regularizing their administrative situation, basically because they enter the protection system. And I can hear it being said: "It's that we have a staff problem. Then, for other responsibilities, I can't understand that it doesn't work, and that numbers are coming, for people, to go to the sub-delegation to regularize their administrative situation. I can hear the difficulties, but this is also part of the problem or the areas that we need to address. In the situation of state assumptions and in the situation of resources. I am very honest, and what I place – and when you have managerial responsibilities in an administration you are absolutely aware – is that, for the sake of the presumption, the DGAIA credit, of a DGAIA in which there was the presumption of 2017 designed for 2017, the credit ends. And what have we done? As we have done in 2018: introduce contingency funds, and we have introduced them in the moments that have taken place, and there has been an absolute responsibility on the part of this government, basically because beyond legal responsibility we have moral and ethical responsibilities. Now, that the credit is exceeded generates other management elements of the Administration. And that makes it hard. And I think that I have to say things in this faristol for his name – and that makes it difficult. It's hard because you have to go generating. Just like the system's change with the accreditation orders, which has worked very well in most areas. Because it has not been a system change in childhood and adolescence, it has been a system change in the overallity of the department, to agile, to give response. But in the place where we have the most tension this system change ends up affecting. Now, that's not because it's... it's for a will, but it's not because it's for a will to bother or for a will to get harder. It is a need for a department that has 70_percent of the contract of all the Generality, with very little contract, to facilitate all the administrative management, both for entities with which we work – it is in the area of childhood, it is in the area of people with disabilities, it is in the area of youth, it is in the area of social action, it is in any of the areas – and it corrects the whole situation of the contracts that were to be renewed annually, it is also in the area of paper management both for associations and for the Administration that I do not have any feeling. And it's a system that's working for us, but it's true that in the place where we have the most tension, because the implemented assumption of the DGAIA compared to the ordinary assumption is more than double, so it has generated tensions. And we've set it up, and we're correcting it. Now, it was a system change that had to be made. Because there are also other control elements, such as interventions, and they are control elements that I think everyone here shares. And in the realm of resources we will continue to do so. And we will continue to do so because I believe that at the moment we have not even been in a position to fail to assume our responsibilities. And we're aware that right now we're running a few late payments. Now we've already made the payments of the month of generation and fever, at about 50 entities, we're... In the Government Council yesterday we approved 6_million more than they were going to contract, and the new contracting system and payment will end up improving the system, and it's more transparent, faster and more sustainable. Now, the process of adjusting the payment process that has resulted in delay in the subscription of invoices we accept and are solving it, and working point by point, because it's what's close to us – it's what's close to us. Now, it's funny that I say it and I say it with this point of... – well, I won't define it – who, from the State... And, in the conversations... – that you take responsibility for them, their political group in the State –, and all the conversations that we have done, have not happened before, of the things that we have asked for, that are very simple, that is: information, transparency in the information of arrivals at cost, transparency around the exit of protection systems... Because I assume that all of us here are aware that when they arrive at the Catalan protection system they have not come from..., they have gone through other protection systems. Only with this information can we generate... Landing protocol. Our responsibility is to embrace everyone. We've generated a protocol. A protocol that takes into account the exploration and search of space; pre-opening planning; the opening of the service, and then the locking of the center, because in some cases it is closed. Because it's a reality, we have a hard time finding places. And that's it, because it's a reality going on in this country, and we have to give that answer. About the ruby case, I'm not going in there. We'll give you a heads-up, yes, we'll give you a call. Ask yourself: "Wait. And then he went out. I won't judge values, but the question is, if not, what do we do? It's that they're eighty kids that Sant Just Desvern was a year and didn't cause any trouble. And we put a tag on these eighty kids, because they weren't... that I don't know if we'd get out of it. And we should do it. And then I want to talk about the actions of the strategy; about Can Rubio's claim, which I have left pending... But I think that this global reflection was bound to do it, and more, like at least, with a certain that I think we should all have when we talk about these things.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.205.0	Thank you, Counselor. The word has now the deputy Raúl Moreno for the reply of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.206.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, that's exactly what this inquiry went out of the election period, and I did it with all intent. If you don't like Antena 3's reports, then I'll talk to Antena 3; but what I want here is to talk about his management, not about Antena 3's reports, whether they like him or not. Miri, decree of 40_million euros, which he never had, that they posed for this topic. The Generalitat will receive around 2 million euros. I have already transferred it, to the Government of the State, that I believe the resources will be distributed according to the autonomous communities that acquit, not the place of entry. And he'll probably have some good news, in that sense. Therefore, we share this – we share it. But in addition to complaining, trying to pressure, seeking complicity, – seeking complicity – they cannot go alone for life, demanding that criteria are changed without the remaining autonomous communities being in favour. The Government Delegation has always been on its side – always – offering, at last, equipment, if necessary. Always. And if I don't, I won't have a problem facilitating this gathering or these agreements that may be with the Government Delegation. I don't think it's necessary, but if you need help with that, you can count on us. But it's not just an information problem for where they come in, for where they're going, for where they're coming in. It's not just this information problem. It's a day-to-day management problem. It's a real problem with what's going on. He said: "The general assumptions of the State did not bring anything. Home, 2,200 million euros. It's not bad; in worse places we've bullied. But you said no – you said no. And it's that, besides, they said that they haven't even presented their own; or else, don't explain their management problems to us. To the citizens and the citizens, that you have problems of treasuries, of management..., listen to me, so very well. I'm talking about people's problems, centers' problems, they don't have hot water, some don't pay their workers their names. To me, honestly, I'm just like the economic problems you have, among other things because you've been unable to agree and come here and present a draft assumptions. It's not our fault or the State. You bring a draft of assumptions, and you tell us what game you're going to play. "The accreditation orders," he says, "have worked well. So, it must be any department less of the childhood entities, less of the social entities of this country. The other day I asked her about the special work centres and you came out here to say, "You can't pay because the State hasn't made the sectoral work conference. The next day he paid. But if it's not possible! The next day he paid you. Look, the entities may hear that there are some delays in the payment, but just yesterday TV3 called transparency, a calendar. If you already know that you will have payment problems, tell me when you will pay and how. Gather the entities. You should gather the entities, socialize the problems they may have. But more than that, there is no type of information, for their part, to entities. And, to be, pay some, not others... well, play this game of permanent division. Counselor, the landing protocol. Please, now, in the turn of the line. Do you think it's normal that you can set up a youth center with a phone call to a mayor or a mayor? Do you agree with the statements of the Director General of DGAIA, who admits that this is not the way things are done? And if that's not the way things are done, why are you cheating more than three months into making a landing protocol, which, moreover, has not been discussed with the representative entities of the municipalities? How much do we triage to make this landing protocol? And if you think you're doing it wrong, why do you keep doing it with the same system? Because, look, Rubí and other cities – I don't want to give him lessons – I told him before they can give him and they can give us lessons on how to integrate, cities that have seen immigration processes much more complicated and that have apostate, mayors and mayors, to ensure coexistence, that it is also a very important value, coexistence, security, that it is also a very important value. And, therefore, what you can't do is make a decision, generate a problem, come out currents and say: « Mayor, Mayor..., you yourself, solve it. Now they will not be calling him, to the mayor or to the mayor, to say: "The one I said I would do, I will do it. No, so don't raise your phone, or the CAP, or any other kind of investment. No, this is a lot more expensive. So, I'm the one who claims and offers you all our support is to search for a normal, logical, common, informational, transparent system... The same one that you claim to the state government, we claim it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.207.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the final reply, the counselor has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.208.0	By order. Congressman, information to entities. Now – I'm saying as a reminder, I may be wrong about yesterday or today... – I mean, yesterday or today – and I don't know how many meetings we've had – there was a meeting with the Fedaia, which is the federation, with the FEPA also meeting... This exercise the fem – this exercise the fem – with all the difficulties. What we are very honest at the time to explain how it will work and what passes... We assume all our responsibilities, we would only fail, we assume all our responsibilities. Now, what's also... is that we may or may not like the Antena 3 report, but if we feed this report, then we have a little responsibility. And we also have to do this, and we also have to plant this, and that is also to be said loudly. And I think it's close to saying it out loud. From here, I do know that, as a minimum some of the issues he has raised, because there are many fears..., and they know that in this topic I try to make the slightest possible sound, in the sense that I get into polemics that I think that what they do is give us the most difficulty at the time of management of an important repte; I try to make the smallest sound possible, because I think it's how it's done. But what we do also... is to be clear in some things, and sometimes among all folds we don't help each other. And that's it, because the eighty children of Sant Just Desvern have already been labeled. And this we have to plant all of us, who have been to Sant Just one year, and nothing had happened– and nothing had happened. But well... About the strategy, things we've been doing. And that's what I'm saying, huh? The landing protocol? It's that the call is previa, it's a previa call. And if you say, "Please, let's wait for the whole process to pass, so we believe that in a straight way, let's wait. That's it, and there's no kind of bad will. Now, from here on, I think we've experienced some municipalities where one of the themes that has been on the table is the difficulties surrounding buildings, housing, especially in this country. I think we're all aware of that. Because if we don't, we'll end up making the hortelan dog, which neither eats nor lets eat. And that, when we talk about minors, we can't afford it. We cannot afford the logic of the hortelano dog, which neither eats nor lets eat. And I think it's that way. And he knows perfectly well that in this I won't blow, I won't scream, I won't show, because I think the subject is pretty important. From here, I've placed the protocol points... and May 2 by June end. I think it's a time... And considering that we are in an emergency situation, it is a time... We have generated 650 seats this 2019, already – 650 seats! Most of the centres that have opened have not had this sound, because it is not generated, this sound. From here, from time to time it passes. I think every one of them... takes on their responsibilities and takes on the public discourse he makes. Because cohabitation, and as long as it's protected, cohabitation. It's that my sentence is different: it's not that you have to protect coexistence, it's that coexistence is the solution, it's not the problem. It is that coexistence, knowledge and recognition of the Community fabric are the solution, they are not the problem. There's no problem with living together. It's that cohabitation is what gives solutions to certain negations and pors. And soc absolutely aware of the needs and needs. And I don't think there's a whole lot I don't say that the department has gone, through DGAIA, through the directors and directors of territorial services, through the Secretary of Children, through the Secretary of Immigration..., that you haven't gone to any place with your veins and your veins. It's what they do. You know you're complex, and you do. And as long as we do – and as long as we do. And around the strategy, to give some examples. The theme of the counseling to the centers in the field of documentation; we worked with Save the Children and Red Cree. The Mentorship Program, one of the programs we're most proud of and that's working and that's worth it, and the accompliment. Now, we're also aware... we're growing up in the fold, but we're aware that it's a profile that's complicated and that we need to accompany. We think mentorship can be a good first pass. The specific centre for young people, where we make traffic detection elements, where we incorporate the specific gender view. The CAI that we are working, landing, here in Barcelona. That it would not be reasonable for us to have a landing centre in Barcelona, but it passes. Even though they're not at the cost, it's over. So we do it, and we do it from the hand of the Barcelona Assembly. The updating of the DGAIA protocols... [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] There are many elements that... And we are aware that there is a lot of tension, and so much! And we're aware that they do a lot of work. And on the subject of Can Rubio I do want to situate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.209.0	You're out of here, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.210.0	We're working on it, we're working on it. Can Rubio has twenty-three kids and twenty educators. I'm just saying, I'm just saying, I'm going to, uh, I'm going to, uh, I'm going to, uh, I'm going to, uh, I'm going to, uh, I'm going to, uh, I'm going to, uh, I'm going to, uh, I'm going to, uh, I'm going to, uh, I'm going to,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.211.0	Time's up, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.212.0	And we will continue to work with workers' representatives as well as with the difficulty of moving from a therapeutic CRAE to a CRAE, which was the great difficulty for Can Rubio. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.213.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about its social inaction]] [[300-00135/12]] We turn to the agenda item, which is the question to the Government about its social inaction, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose the inquiry has the word MP Naomi of the Street. [[Sound the acoustic signal calling to the vote.]] I'm sorry, I was wrong. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's a mistake, I know. [[Rialles.]] Excuse me, we didn't call for a vote; there was a confusion on the screen. [[Naomi of Sifré Street intervenes without using the microphone.]] Yeah, yeah, give it a minute. Give it a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.214.0	Councillor, deputies, deputies..., a few days ago all parliamentary groups received a report from La Confederació that came to confirm what we have been alerting citizens for years: the total inaction of the Government regarding social policies, the abandonment of Catalans in the issues that matter most to us. This report speaks of a lost decade, a trend that its management at the head of such an important consultancy as that of Labour and Social Affairs has not only not reversed, but has worsened in the most unfair way. A large part of the problem is the lack of dialogue, the lack of realism and the lack of self-criticism on the part of the Government. There is a lack of dialogue, because every question we make from the opposition is answered with an exercise of parliamentary anaesthesia by reading a list to the Magi that is never fulfilled and that is never real. Also lack of realism and self-criticism, because they are unable to recognize and assume that social indicators get worse every year, due to mismanagement and lack of bets on social policies, because in that you are champions. And for a long time they used 155 as an excuse for everything, although many private entities, therefore, recognized us that they had never charged as well as during their application. Because you used 155 as an excuse, for example, in late payments to special employment centres, when already since 2016 the defaults have happened year after year: defaults in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019. This year, the TECs have been joined by defaults to DGAIA-dependent centres. Will there be a year for you to pay in time? Will 2020 be the year in which they begin to do so? Because this year we're late. What is more, will they ever stop having the entities kidnapped and resubmit the calls for grants in a multiannual manner? And, look, prioritizing social policies isn't talking all day about what they're going to do, but doing it. And how? So investing, investing in social policies. Do you know that the percentage that represented social services spending in Catalonia in 2018 is well below the Spanish average? And I'm not talking about absolute numbers, I'm talking about the percentage of the total budget. And the percentage that an administration allocates to social policies reveals the degree of priority it represents for a government, and in its case for many years making it clear that they are not its priority. That is why it is not surprising that indicators, as I said, not only do not improve, but they get worse every year. And, as you should already know, after the publication of the reports of the Unit Observatory and the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, we are again champions in neglect of dependents. And, as my colleague Carlos Carrizosa recalled this morning, Catalonia has the highest unattended rate in the whole country: a 46_per_cent higher than the national average. And the president this morning had the face of saying that we don't care about dependence, but who doesn't care about the least is you, who are the ones who have the power to change things in their hands, and the data do nothing but make it worse. And I will give you another fact: in Catalonia there are only 3.42 reception places for every 100 women with protection orders, when the average for the whole of Spain is almost ten. We are also champions in child poverty, and it is that investment in children in Catalonia is well below the Spanish average and in light years of the European one. Not to mention disability policies: in Catalonia there are more than half a million people with disabilities, but investment in this area barely reaches 1_per_cent. Is he aware, Counselor, that having a disability represents an annual economic overstress of EUR 23,000, according to Cocarmi? When will the great forgotten policies of this government cease to be disability policies? And it is that, frankly, I must admit that in the face of the government's non-existent self-criticism, it is very difficult to put oneself in its place and empathize with its management. Because you are neither a realistic government, nor a dialogue, nor a self-critical one. And look that from Citizens we have tried by presenting motions for resolutions and laws, such as the Proposition of the Law for the Reduction of Fiscal Pressure on Low Income in the IRPF, such as the Proposition of the Law for the Improvement of Quality in the Provision of Health and Social Health Services, or the Proposition of the Law for the Prevention of Child Abuse, and also by promoting full monographs and social commissions in which all parliamentary groups could participate. And I remind you: we push a full on prioritizing the social agenda, we push a full monograph on children, we also push a study committee on large people's policies so that entities, users, companies in the sector and all parliamentary groups could have a forum where the problems of the older people's collective could be addressed, as the dialogue with the Government was not working. And thanks to the initiative of my parliamentary group in this Parliament, there is a space to be able to discuss the challenge of caring for the elderly with the dignity they deserve. We are also pushing for a committee to monitor disability policies, which, unfortunately, therefore, you have brought us down with the help of the Socialist Party, and which, by the way, I remind you that the entities are still waiting for that working group that you sold them as an excuse to vote against the committee that proposed Citizens. Another unfulfilled promise. Non-compliance after non-compliance with all motions and social resolutions adopted in this Parliament. And not only do they fail to comply with resolutions, but they do not pay social entities either. However, what they never forget is to water economically with subsidies to entities or media related to the separatist process, millions and millions that go through the drain of the process. And it's really desperate, because you have in your hands the tools to reverse this situation, but you're wasting the money and time that families don't have. They are wasting a very valuable opportunity to improve the lives of Catalan citizens. And it is a shame, not to say an insult, that you spend 20_million_de_euros on institutional propaganda, and open the newspaper and find yourself with advertising paid by the Generalitat about how good guaranteed income works, when everyone knows that management is a disaster. Don't waste the time and money of the Catalans anymore and do your job. Update your social service portfolio. They are failing to comply with the law that requires the portfolio to be updated every four years. Twelve years have passed, and that means that professional ratios are not adequate, economic modules are out of date, entities do not cover expenses, workers are precarious in their jobs, and users have seen how the quality of care has fallen; unequal care depending on whether you care or work in a public resource or a concerted one, because salaries and professional ratios vary depending on whether it is public or concerted. You reverse that inequality. Because that's another weak point of your government. You talk very little about inequality among the citizens of Catalonia. They like to talk a lot about Catalonia as if it were a homogeneous thing, facing the rest of Spain, but the inequality in Catalonia is unbearable, it is unsustainable. Do you know that life expectancy varies in ten years depending on the neighbourhood of Barcelona in which you live? And this is a terrible fact. In addition, the socio-economic level of parents affects the education of children, health, occupation and future of such children. We need more investment in children, because equal opportunities in children are not being ensured in Catalonia. And that translates into a loss of talent. Because talent doesn't understand social classes, talent grows everywhere and we need to ensure equal opportunities in childhood so that that talent can come out and not be lost. A society cannot afford the loss of talent, and investment in children is one of the best social and economic investments that the Administration can make for future generations, it is the best that it can do for that one_of_each_four Catalan children living below the poverty line. And there is not only inequality of opportunity in childhood, but also in advanced ages. There is a huge territorial imbalance in the resources to dependency. And I'm talking about municipalities like Hospitalet de Llobregat, municipalities like Ripollet, areas like Terres de l'Ebre, where we have an extremely ageing population and a percentage of dependency care resources below the average. Territorial inequalities in social resources are unsustainable for many Catalan families. Planning does not respond to the real needs of our society. And when you conclude squares many we get our hands on the head because they do not follow criteria of social needs; the distribution of resources makes no sense. Nor does it make any sense what is happening with the child protection system. And it is not hidden in the increase of the arrival of unaccompanied minors to justify the collapse of the system, because for years we have been alerting him from the opposition, from the centers themselves, from the unions and from the Col·legi d'Educadores i Educadores Socials. And you have come in through one ear and come out through another. And I will not deny that from my parliamentary group we have been suspicious for a long time, and we are not the only ones, as it is now being investigated by the courts, and that the current situation of collapse would respond to the for profit of some people since the time of the tripartite. And that is why I am already telling you that we are going to ask for an audit of the management of the DGAIA in recent years to shed light, to know why we have come to this situation and above all to enable the DGAIA to fulfil its role, which is to protect children and adolescents by offering them and guaranteeing them a speech worthy and full of opportunities. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.215.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to answer the question, the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Chakir El Homrani, has a new word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.216.0	Thank you. Counselors, MPs and MPs... Congresswoman De la Calle, has dealt with various issues, in a very general line. I'll try to focus on the concrete issues, what it's about, the challenges we have, and from here, yes, if you want... I won't go into certain other aspects that I think they don't have much... more general value. I am grateful, because in some questions I do not know if the model they are planting, economic and social, is the model of fighting against inequalities and fighting against situations of discrimination. But good. And that day by day is already seen, with which we don't need to be fooled here, nor do we need to be here as the great saviors when you represent an economic model and a social model where it is done to encourage inequality and discrimination. From here, he spoke of disabilities and people with various abilities, he spoke of the need for investment in this area, he spoke of the fact that this government has not done anything about it. This government has remained the only one who, after the rise of the minimum wage, has made a direct increase in the same percentage of the pro-funds devoted to it, which we are curiously the only territory that devotes pro-funds to it, because we should not finance it. And these pro-funds represent 42 million. The State is at 50; we're hoping that, at the next sectoral conference, we'll see how the 84 more people who want to put in – that's what I said, not the payments... It's not Mr. Moreno, but at least that's what I take advantage of. We are also a territory where we work from the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of United Nations. This is not done to the rest of the State. We are doing a lot of work in the Codiscat brand of how we have to change legislation and public policies to complete the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We're working with the sector. And we don't have a problem. And we have set some dates, which is June-July, to have a full route around the tariff elements, but not only the tariff elements, but also the model changes, and I think we will soon have interesting answers, which are in line with what is to be done in this area, which is to complete the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, to support the protected work, but at the same time to work for a real insertion into the ordinary business. I was also asked about the protection system for childhood and adolescence. I take this opportunity to reflect, because the system of protection for the childhood and adolescence of this country..., which is always in the wake of the hurricane. It's very curious because we, with Euskadi, are the only two territories where the protection system went beyond the divided years. We've got it right now, and I was looking for the data... I'm telling you, because we're also located, because a lot of people who have responsibilities for government, in many other territories, in different years... [[The counselor makes a gesture of disappearance with his hands]] - No, no, no, We now have 3,030 boys and major girls of age in the protection system, whether by way of post-custodial help or by means of resources, whether on floors or in centers. I'm saying this because we could also explore this element, because that's surely... that it's one of the concerns that most of the gatherings get us around about how it's handled the fact that when they spend their years and the whole period of empowerment, and with processes that sometimes haven't kept up all the work and time needed to make a good process of empowerment and job placement. I remember, 3,030. With Euskadi, the two only systems that have a look beyond the divided years. I think we need to put this in place, too. Just as I feel that the system is tense and that we need to rethink it with positive elements and elements that we need to change, because the diversity of the guys has changed. Just as I always say that talking about childhood policies is not just about the protection system, it is much broader. If we're talking only about the protection system, we're talking about god, and I think childhood in this country, and adolescence, represent more. That's it, it's doing this... I don't think it's normal that I don't, an element that I think is key at the time of hearing social action and social services, I think it's normal that I don't, because they have few responsibilities or one in the municipal sphere, and now it hasn't changed a lot, that it's one of the key elements in the fabric, which is the social services program contract. And here, just as we are fully aware that in the 2020-2023 programme contract we need to rethink the area of energy poverty, the area of sensillarism, which is where we are working, already situated the "must have...", I remind you that, from the programme contract, in this last contract the programme has contracted more than 850 professionals to the basic areas of social services, finally completing the ration. And that was based on the program contract. Eight hundred and fifty professionals across the country. That in the program contract..., this last program contract allowed us to start the model change around the centers opened up to the SIS, which took place in Terres de..., we decided to do it in a different way than usual, which was: it started in Barcelona and radiated to the territory. And we've done it in a different way: we've started with Ebre Lands, Tarragona and Ponent; now Girona is taking place, and in our own program contract we'll enter all of Barcelona; a model change that will also allow us a much more comprehensive and financially more comprehensive view than the one of the open centers around the childhood system. Because the childhood system is not only about AIFM, but also about the program contract, with an increase of more than 50_per_cent in AIFM; that is to say, there are other elements. And from here I place the two deures that we are..., the two reptes that we are working for the future contract program, because we think that we need to work them, that it is poor energy and sensellarism. He also told me about big people and the whole area of dependence. Miri, we have to give an answer to the needy. One, first, not all care for dependent people is a system of dependence; there are areas that we share with salvation, such as socio-health residencies, which answer and which are not accounted for. I'm also saying to situate it. I believe that everyone is making a great effort, making an important effort as the assemblies of this country, making an effort from the Generality, with the limitations we have. I always come out here, don't I? Also, and I will always say: there is a problem, that it is a poorly financed law and that it does not complete the financing of the law. And what should have been a subject right is not a subject right. And here we have a problem, and always the situation: set, two, u. And I think that with this theme it is clear: seven, the Catalan administrations; two, co-op; one, the State, when it should be fifty-five, counting the co-op; if we count the co-op is eight-two. I think we have here... But, in the same way, the challenge that we are working on, both in the area of unions, as of entities, as of employers, is a double challenge that at some point – and I take it here to situate it – we must be honest to situate it, which is: how do we increase the capacity to cover? And here work has been done, we have agreed with the Hospital, with Santa Coloma, with Prat, with Molins de Rei, with Ripollet, now we are working with Granollers hand-in-hand, with the gatherings, which is what he is looking for. As we increase the coverage capacity and as we also have a tariff policy that has a representation also around the working conditions of workers and workers, especially workers, because it is an absolutely feminized sector. I think it's one of the other areas where we need to locate these elements. In short, we will contact parliamentary groups because we are already working on what is the basis of an element that must be vertebrate, that is the strategy of social services, that must pass through Parliament, and in short we will present them with a first draft with a will of work around this strategy from 2020 onwards, and that it must be approved, as the law says, for Parliament. And I'll keep working on it. And around the guaranteed income, with the difficulties that have been encountered, and I know the first one that I have placed, with the difficulties that have been encountered, we cannot relativize that we are now giving answers to more than 120,000 people; that we are complementing, because we decided all the pleas that were complementary, more than forty thousand people who were with a non-contributory benefit, responsibility of the State, that all of us in this Parliament considered to be below the level of dignity, with all the growth and we will continue to work. I've also located one of the other elements here. In the end, in policies of occupation, whether active or passive, we spend almost 1,000_million euros per year, because we also have very clear that the best response against..., the best social policy is quality work. And here we also have another assignment that is clear, that is quality work; otherwise, we don't give an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.217.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, for the reply, has the word MP Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.218.0	Thank you, Counselor. Do you know what model makes the state of well - being unsustainable? With your model: the model of the chiringuitos; the model, therefore, of being the autonomous community with the highest positions, where they most charge these high positions; the model of waste in organizing meetings; the model of waste in protocol... And it is that you, your Government, are incompatible with the state of well-being. And, look, I've done this interpellation or this kind of interpellation... I've done it on several occasions, with the same result, and it's that the government has not complied with anything; different resolutions, too, in commissions. I am going to make ten requests which have been approved countless times, tabled by my parliamentary group and even on other occasions by other members of the opposition. And I'm going to tell you one thing: that you commit to or fulfill only one in this legislature, you have already done more than the previous councillor. Let's get started. The first, when will Catalan laws be brought into line with the UN International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities? Since 2007, this convention has been ratified by Spain; it is 2019 and has not yet been done. This doesn't cost a lot, you just have to take the laws and make the transposition of the law. Let's see if we can get on with it. The second, when will they stop delaying payments to entities? Because the delays I remember go back to 2016, but because I came in as a Member of Parliament in September 2015; these defaults probably existed before. When will they stop delaying payments? Will they pay in time by 2020? The third, when will they reconvene the subsidies in a multiannual way so that social entities can make good planning of these activities and can stop being kidnapped by the Government, kidnapped already since two legislatures? Fourth, when will they present the Catalan law of personal autonomy? , a law that, with you, has already been four advisors who have promised it and none has fulfilled it. Five, when are they going to present the rules of the Accessibility Act? , approved in 2014 and we are in 2019. Five years they've had to make this deployment. Six, when will the Law on Rights and Opportunities in Children and Adolescents be fully implemented? adopted in 2010. Almost ten years they have had to deploy the law. Seven, when are they going to submit a report on the implementation of the Covenant for Children, signed in 2013? Six years have passed. When will the Social Service Portfolio be updated? , which should have been updated in 2011. You talked about the program contract; you keep being the Social Services Portfolio, which is updated, and that's where the framework programs come from. When will this Social Service Portfolio be updated? , which is the one that has the sector as it is. I mean, as it is... everything comes from here! This is the root. When are they going to do it? Are we gonna rip off a...? Is today the day when we start a commitment? Is this the legislature in which they fulfill it? Nine, when are they going to deploy and provide budget for the Catalan Sign Language Act adopted in 2010? And ten, when are they going to comply with the 2007 Housing Right Act? Twelve years, huh? And in that law..., that law reminded him that it set the goal that, by 2020 – which is only six months away – a minimum of 15_per_cent of housing intended for social policies had to be reached. Do you currently know how much we are in? In a 2-per-cent. Six months to 2020. Do you know what you have done to achieve that goal? Nothing. But what have you been doing all these years, apart from, well, tying it up, as we all know? What can be more important than addressing the problems of the most vulnerable? In whose hands are the Catalans, who have a government that ignores dependent persons, ignores persons with disabilities, while encouraging the CDRs, or advertises the fugitives of justice? And, look, if they devoted the same energy to ending the waiting lists that they have put him to try to get out of jail a chorizo like Oriol Pujol, in Catalonia there would be no people waiting four years...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.219.0	Mrs. Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.220.0	...to access a public square in a residence after all his life paying taxes. Gentlemen of the Government, enough is enough of this great scam that is the process and enough is enough to ignore those who need us most. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.221.0	Then, for the reply, the counselor has the word again, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.222.0	Consellers, deputies and deputies... street deputy, I already said: "Here is something strange going on. I mean, a first part of the question places people with disabilities, great people, child protection system and adolescence; I place the program contract later in the answer... God..., and now I say: "There is an inquiry reasonably linked to these titles that keep them to their questions, which are very fun and have a great originality – they have a great originality. "It's strange, it's Ciutadans." And I was waiting there, when the issue of prisoners, the fugitives of justice would come out, only... it's that when I listen to them... I don't make gestures to them when you talk; I think it's an exercise of respect. When you talk to the listener, I write, I don't make gestures, I don't try... Why? Because I think it's the way, it's respect between everyone and everyone. It's here. And I remember it and I'll remember it every time I want, if they do. So, Jo Ja said: "What a strange thing. Because, of course, we are listening to you and I think, "It's that when I get out of Parliament I'm going to be in an apocalyptic version of this country, where everything is cremating, where it works, where I don't know how... we must be an island where everyone should be leaving this country, before the great management that is done to the other places, because we die, right? It is that we listen to you and say: "There is a drama, they are, there, killing in the street, and there is nothing. I think this reflection has to be done, because it's that they end up generating... And you said: "Deut elements. Two elements we're working on and two elements you'll see. And it seems lied, because it is that the Codiscat – and you if it has this relationship, and I'm sure it has this relationship with the fabric of entities in the country – explain to him that the working group on – and that at the end of June – the legislative adaptation and the adaptation of public policies around the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is working. And if you went – and I think you went – to Plaça Catalunya and spoke to some of the members who came out in that act of right to vote for people with disabilities, there were people from the Dincat area who were participating in that group, and who were happy with how they were evolving. I'm talking about the accessibility regulation. The accessibility regulation is in management. Now, the rule of... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, it's in the fields. And we may or may not like it, but it is within the realms of internal management that a government has in any regulation. Now, I'm telling you, the accessibility rule is exemplary because you have a global view, you have a view of all the departments. We didn't want to make one aspect..., a part for each department; it has a global view. You've brought me up to speed on the Social Service Portfolio. I put it there – and I explained it to them –: now, for the same law, the strategy has to be approved, which has to be approved every four years. I told you. It's just that we'll be calling them to introduce them to the eraser, because it's the one that's around us. Just as we are... And to generate that element of work, what do we have to do? So, both with entities and with parliamentary groups. Because... besides, you know that the Social Service Strategy has to go through this Parliament, and it has to be approved in this Parliament. And that's what we're close to doing. About people with disabilities, I would also like to say that it is not there.., we are, surely – and I think we can say it with pride – the country, the territory – as I would say, I will not enter into discussions – that we have more incorporated the gaze of the Convention of the Rights of People with Disabilities, around people with disabilities. So we understand that we have special difficulties with special work centres. This isn't happening in the State, why? Because people with special difficulties are not in special work centres, they are in occupational therapy services, because there is no bet to give them these opportunities. I put it another time that we are working together with the sector, which is premature aging, which is one of the key aspects to which we must also respond. And then I also found the scope of the modification and the change of the child protection system. We've told them and we've located them, and, for example, [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] We are working on indicators with the Autonomous University of Barcelona, quality...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.223.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.224.0	...and quantity, of the protection system, to start this work. We are very clear that we have these reps, and we will do them, just as we are doing them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.225.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.226.0	And there is no apocalypse outside this Ple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.227.0	Thank you. The next question is about the emergence services, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, Mr Marc Parés. [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] It's true, there's a real question, isn't there? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's just that I've got it in my... okay – okay. [[Question to the Government about the museum situation in Catalonia]] [[300-00138/12]] The new, therefore, is the inquiry to the Government on the museum situation in Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To present it, the honourable Member, Ms Montserrat Macià, has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.228.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies, deputies, friends who accompany us from the guest stand, staff of Parliament... Benvolguda Councillor, as you well know, Catalonia is a land rich in cultural heritage that is one of the foundational pillars where it supports and defines our cultural identity, as it represents us symbolically and exports us to the world. A good part of this heritage, both the furniture and the immobile and also the immaterial, is preserved, managed and difficult by some heroic entities that have made clear political claims and social and institutional recognition: museums – museums. Our memoirs, which after making a number of desert crossings, have already ceased to be rooms for the mummification of cultural assets to be converted, through their collections into spaces for discovery, knowledge and inquiry. Our museums today have ceased to be the type of object, showcase and label to become powerful instruments of society's integration or, as Icom says, active actors of their communities. So the museums, all of them – all of them – can finish complementing this vital cycle, which directs them towards the future, such as support, involvement and the absolutely focused look of the department of which you are not the owner. And that's why this inquiry: to know which actions will do their department in this direction and which is today the location of museums in our country. Because this way alone, with your support, counsel, our institutions will be able to conveniently position the line of exit suitable to face the third decade of the 21st century with all the reptes it carries implied. Some institutions that... – and will allow me, counsel, to make an esquetx, because this deputy who speaks to him has dedicated twenty-four years of his professional life to the world of museums, cultural heritage–, some institutions, said, that to survive they have had to fight with the tool of imagination and perseverance against the economic crisis; they have had to live and denounce the centralism of the metropolis and the inherent territorial imbalance; they have had to reinvent themselves and redefine themselves to interact with society, to show its social value, and to demonstrate that its mission and utility cannot be assessed solely through visitor data or related inputs, as many times the Administration has required, but for the quality of the services it provides to the cultural community. Let's talk about the museum institution, the instrument that serves us to reinterpret history and to work for the culture of pau and coexistence. But, of course, institutions make people, and in this case the museums make them professional professionals who become real experts in the collections that they manage and that they need to develop multi-disciplinary tasks that are often unknown to society; professionals who are very close, and especially to small museums, to working precariousness, to which the generational press is attached, for which a review of working conditions is necessary, with which the professionals find themselves. And, above all, now that they are immersed in the paradigm shift that saw the museum institution, transcend the bottom of the collection, subdue's from the fame of elitists and become calidoscopic to interpret the world through knowledge. To hear the news of our museums leave a bit of history. Thirty years ago this house approved the Law of Museums, the legal tool that today still organizes the museum system of this country. In this sense, I would like to take this opportunity to greet Dr. Eduard Carbonell and Mr. Esteller, who accompanied us from the pool of guests, because he led the Museums Law and the Cultural Heritage Law of 93, and can therefore consider the artifex of heritage..., the artifex of the legal architecture of our cultural heritage and one of the references of the museum world. The Museum Law was both a pioneer in what makes the same definition of the concept of ‘museums as the organizational structure, and, above all, because it provides for a decentralized configuration of national museums through its sections and the museum service. We came from a fruitful decade, from the restoration of the Generality and the creation of the Servant of Museums and the Body of Local and Comarcal Museums, which, recovering the models of the Commonwealth of Catalonia, foreshadowed the museum policy. The years following the approval of the law was prioritised the support to the national museums, the museums close to the generality and the participants, and their deployment was pending. In 2008, above the Pla de museus of Councillor Tresserras, which wanted to be an update of the law. Finally, and among other bonds, that plan sought to give answer to the claims of the territory, through the establishment of territorial and thematic networks, but it also ended up deploying everything, because 2012 was announced another Pla de museus, presented in 2015, which re-centralized the museums through the names « thematic constellations linked to the national museums, in creation of us, while the three competitions of management and autonomy through the Agency of Cultural Heritage. Finally, in September 2017, at the end of the moment that the State has intervened the Generalitat, Councillor Puig, today to the exile – to which I send from here our esteem and recognition–, presented the new Pla de museus 2030; a strategic document, endorsed by the consent and participation of the professional of museums that marks the priority lines of work to situate the country's museums to the place where they are close to them. It is an ambitious plan, which places the emphasis on the social values of the museums, with strategic proposals for the future, realistically economically, and which again declines through the territorial networks and the gaze laid on the territory. Its implementation, through its action of government, will advise – because the government governs – of course that it will allow the resurgence of the museum institutions, its territorial rebalancing and the overcoming of the current weaknesses, especially linked to the reformulation of the mission of the museums and its relationship with the public, for one band, and the professional system of the museums for the other. Perhaps the great challenges we now have, more than that, to increase the percentage of the budget devoted to culture. We would like to know which is the state of execution of Museums 2030, especially considering that the document provides for a timetabled and economically quantified performance plan for the period 2018-2021. Certainly the intervention of the Government through 155_has encouraged important actions. The plan provides for the dignity of the professional working conditions of the museums. We know that in a more or less generalised way, especially in small and territorial museums, professionals are in a situation, as we have said, of job insecurity, made worse by outsourcing and the service contract through Chapter 2 of the museum's assumptions. Counselling, we are obliged to create a new work system that identifies the profession and that lays down the basic needs of equipment with qualified personnel and new profiles. We know that the coming week, on June 5th, the Museums' Forum will be located, the participatory tool planned for the plan, and that you want to give to all professionals to face the future with a solid museum system. And the subject of work will be one of the thematic issues dealt with. The results of this initiative will have to be translated into actions, which demonstrates the commitment of the department that you preside over to mitigate the weaknesses and increase the strengths and face us in the future. In 2030 we will have four national museums that founded, with the rest of museums, the Museums System of Catalonia. In the band of the MNAC, the MNATEC, the Museum of History, merged with the Museum of Archaeology, and the Museum of Natural Sciences. He will advise, for what he does at the National Museum of History of Catalonia, we would like to know if the museum project has already begun and the location has taken place. Alternatively, the plan creates and implements support structures for the museum system. Some are institutional, such as the Cultural Heritage Agency. The agency, perhaps worth it in the process of revision and modification of the new statutes, is revised its definition, its current functions and, among others, the national museums regain their autonomy of assumption management that they lost with the creation of the agency in 2015 so as to make them more agile and direct them towards excellence. We celebrate the strategic will of the plan, to order the museum equipment and explain planning and coordination tools through the museum map. We understand that 2030 will hardly be able to justify large white staves on the map of Catalonia, symbols of absences from registered museums, as it goes even to the demarcation of Lleida or to the Lands of the Ebre. Or not to take advantage of the great nodes of heritage attraction of the territory, such as, for example, the rich paleontological ingenuity of the territorial area of the Museum of Isona and the Conca Della, to strengthen and prioritise them. The Museums Board can turn the country's museums into real territorial vertebrate tools, and we always remember that, of course, with the actions of your government..., which you preside, will help us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.229.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the return, to make the answer, of the Councillor of Culture. He'll advise when he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.230.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. We count on you, for your expertise and to be a great connoisseur of the world of museums, as you have just shown. I, well found, friend and colleague, Dr. Eduard Carbonell. Catalonia, as you said very well, and we all know, is a country with a great cultural, artistic and heritage density, even though I do not want to clap them with a huge debt of data, yes, when we talk about this density, it is necessary to provide a minimum battery of figures, in order to be clearly a composition of the place of the phenomenon. By virtue of the 2018 balance data provided for the Museum Service of the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage of the Government of Catalonia, we have 114 registered museums, 379 open collections to the public and 133 extensions of museums and collections. These figures project a total of 626 museum equipment, which, compared to other European countries with size and population similar to those of Catalonia, is a very high figure. These equipments, disseminated from the territory and focusing on various themes, the year 2018 covered 25,823,767 visitors. This xifra represents an increment of 7.3_per_cent compared to the visitors of the year 2017. I bring this, but we must not forget that what matters is not the quantity of visits but the quality. The result of the confluence of many vectors, some of which I leave in full, Catalonia has recently had the political will to materialize this living space that must be museums. As you said very well to the honourable Member, 2017, under the direction of the Honourable Councillor Lluís Puig, that we have heard and greeted from here too, was presented the Pla de museus de Catalunya, which, in a horizon of thirteen years defines and systematizes the global policy for our museums. It is a plan that starts with a broad political and institutional consensus, and that after having been analyzed and agreed with the entire museum sector, it addresses the vast array of museum equipment in the territory, setting out defined performance criteria for leadership, innovation, transparency, ambition, flexibility, equity, and, of course, the insurmountable conviction that culture is a universal right, and that, therefore, we, like the Government, have the empire of doing this right. It is a plan in which a national strategy of museums crystallizes, where, with a view to the future, posing the view in 2030, but already applying a plan executed until 2021, a new articulation of the current national museum system, defined in that Law of Museums of 1990, is established. Of course, the economic, social, political, cultural and technological context forced the museums of the 21st century to rethink. Call, therefore, a new planning and museum ordering, the establishment of a museum map of Catalonia. It was about creating and developing a balanced, sustainable and quality museum system. You can also use it to increase the visibility of museums. It was important to support the development of the professional sector linked to heritage. It meant prioritizing the social dimension of museums, reinforcing the link between society and museums. It was intended to stimulate collaboration between government departments, as now, to set a nodal example, between the Department of Culture and the Department of Education, all of which are adapted teaching programs. Now, the Government of the Government's Department of Culture has begun the process of approving the Museums Plan as a government plan, and, despite the current situation of extended assumptions – we would like a lot more money for Culture – this plan has been deployed since 2018 in close collaboration with the main agents of asset management. In this sense, it should be pointed out that approximately 75_percent of the actions provided for in the plan have started. The deployment of this plan is governed by four basic axes. The first is that of social action, which, as expressed in its title, designates the social vocation of the plan. The highlights of this are the accessibility plan that we expect to be completed at the end of the year, and that we do together with the Directorate-General for Cultural Cooperation. And it has as its object that cultural equipment is accessible and inclusive, so that no person is discriminated against for their condition. Another action is the social barometer, a basic tool for donating social performance indicators and public value of museums. The second example of deployment is that of support activities at the museum, which includes programs of better security at the museum, or the policy of purchasing our museum equipment. The third deployment axis is that of support activities to the museum system, which contemplates a point as important as museum networks, designed to channel support to the museum and heritage equipment. The fourth axis of deployment is the performance of better equipment, which aims at the renewal of museums and investments in museum equipment. As the cross-cutting action of the Museum Board, the coming week – and it seems to me that we will find it – we present the results of the First Museum Forum, including a space of finding all the museum equipment, in which the state of the museum system will be periodically reviewed, will be diagnosed with points of interest and will be fixed growth folds. In this overview of ambitious and realistic horitzons, there is a branched project that – I say now – takes full responsibility and personal will, I would say, with illusion and enthusiasm. It is that island of museums, or cultural island, conformed to the mountain of Montjuïc, because, in that environment, a combination of equipments converge that for their heritage quality are able to set up a great museum project for the country. I am referring, to the band of other spaces, to the MNAC, the Miró Foundation, the Olympic Esport Museum, the CaixaFòrum, the Mies van der Rohe Pavilion, and also to this great new project, the National Museum of History and Archaeology of Catalonia, which has to be born from the sum of the Museum of Archaeology of Catalonia and the Museum of History of Catalonia. It is a project that closes a circle in a coherent way: explain the origins and the deployment of Catalonia. It is a project aimed at achieving an international reference museum, and it is an ambitious proposal, which does not only express our willingness to spread art, heritage and history in the continuum of a museum dialect irrigated by the social system, but also makes clear our determination to internationalize, to make visible a cultural, artistic tradition, of a country of southern Europe, which, by contributing its heritage quality, deserves to be approved in a global framework, all this project, without oblivion of the task of rebalancing that is taking place, since we have also diagnosed that we have an unbalanced museum map, characterized by an excessive polarization, with few well-equipped museums concentrated in Barcelona, but also with other museums that are in a critical situation. I look forward to thanking and giving my step to all the professionals of our cultural equipment and to the Director General of Cultural Heritage, Mrs. Elsa Ibar, who also accompanied us. Without them, without their irreplaceable effort, that would not have been possible. We do not understand culture as an ailing phenomenon of social cohesion or the democratic quality of a society. That's why keeping our memory alive means vitalizing our present community. That's why we understand that cultural equipment is one of the lungs of our civic and social system. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.231.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Inquiries to the Government on Emergencies Services]] [[300-00133/12]] Now, the next question to the Government is about the emergencies services, and he presents it, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, Mr Marc Parés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.232.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors, well, Catalonia's emergence services find themselves in a situation of extreme precariousness. I know that, as the president did this morning, they're now going to want to pawn the medal that they have a working agreement with some of the bomb squads, not all of them. But the reality is that we are at the gates of summer and, frankly, for the information that we have, the country is not prepared to face the risk that it is at this time of year. And the problem doesn't come up now, it's a problem that comes from the far, but the situation is already totally on the edge. Let's start with the Bombers. It makes a couple of weeks, the Sindico de Greuges ugía public l'Report on the Bomber Coss of the Generalitat de Catalunya, where it was made clear that the Bomber Coss does not only have a work problem, but has much more structural problems. The firefighter system, based on the coexistence between professional and voluntary firefighters, already came into crisis the year 2010 with the breakdowns, and in fact the year 2012, very surprisingly, the government expelled the firefighters of the services considered essential and, therefore, caused them not to be free of the detail. As in so many other areas, Mr. Artur Mas and his Government of the best of us have said that they would fix the Administration, that they would make it effective, and that what we find ourselves in hours of time, some years later, is that, instead of efficiency, what we have is inefficiency, that is, a public administration that is not able to respond to the problems of the people and that if it stands for the great professionalism of its workers and public workers: doctors, teachers, rural agents or firefighters, among many others. Catalonia had 2,500 professional firefighters and 2,500 volunteer firefighters, and the reality is that the year passed the professional firefighters were 2,093– four hundred minus–, and the volunteers, between five and eight hundred– two thousand minus. Not to mention the very scarce presence of women in the body: there are only forty-one. The problem has already been detected, or the bad situation of the body, since the year 2012. In fact, today's date has not yet been implemented many of the better ones that were proposed to end the fire at Horta de Sant Joan and the parliamentary investigation committee. In 2016, the Directorate General for Prevention, Fire Extinguishing and Rescue had developed the strategic plan 2017-2022– three years ago, of this – and in this plan there was a whole series of measures of renewal, maintenance of materials, costumes, infrastructure investment, and it was estimated that it would amount to 207_million euros to execute it. But the plan remained on a tight paper, because there was no presuppositional endowment and, therefore, it was not executed. In the same line, the Bombers 2025 project, developed at the end of last year, recognizes the operating col·lapse of the Bombers Cos and establishes that what would be hot is already 240_million euros of reversal. The year before the professional firefighters made more than 500,000 hours outside; eight years ago they did not summon a plaza, and thirty years ago they did not renew a vehicle. Of a fleet of seven hundred, caldria renews three hundred. Professionals lack basic material, what they have is obsolete, they lack pants, equipment to ensure their safety, they run parks with three firefighters, when they're as hot as four firefighters. Years ago it was unthinkable that it's a firehouse, and now it's become a normality. Emergencies are not just Bombers; they are also, for example, the Mossos, and the situation of the Squadre Mossos Cos is also deficient. But, counselor, today we are talking about the Mossos, with whom he spent this morning in Sants' bar, leads me to ask him to give us explanations about what he spent this morning. We have seen moves giving cover to Desokupa, giving cover to the work of bullies and extortioners, intervening in habitats with minors and with a pregnant woman, and they have done it violently and jumping, once more, the protocol, assaulting over the waist. You yourself, after the charges of October 1, said: "We know that it is a practice that, by protocol, is not to be used. We'll have to find out who the agents were who acted unregulatoryly, just like we've always done. I'm asking if they'll do it for today's charges, too. Counselor, I would expect the police in my country to defend vulnerable families, which are certainly families that are found outside the months of housing emergency, because of their col·lapse, and not that the police are standing on the side of extortioners. What is the model of the police you proposed for Catalonia? What's the country model, anyway? And, for what it does to the emergences in the area of the Mosses, more than the same: vehicles in bad condition, lack of patrols in the street, no willingness to take on the deficit in areas where they need it most... In two years, 30_percent of the template will move to second activity per age and in fifteen years will be 50_percent of the template. Five hundred seats will now come out, but are you aware that there will be a massive exodus of movement to local police, because there are better working conditions there, that the assemblies cannot take on training costs and that they will want to take on trained and experienced agents? And, in any case, I ask you, counselor: what will be the criteria for the territorial distribution of these movements? And why did she plant the mayor of Barcelona at the security board of April? It's just that, counselor, we can't hear him. How many of the nine places of mossos will go to Barcelona? They're missing at least one hundred and fifty, you know, before the summer. The question is easy: will they provide them or not? In addition to the Mossos, apart from the Mossos, there are other services involved in the emergency services: the Rural Agents Cos. The Cos d'Agents Rurales is included in all self-protection and emergency plans; they are responsible for monitoring the forests of Catalonia, representing 64_percent of the surface. This thing has only five hundred agents; this means that many days there are only two or three agents per region and that in the heads of the week there can only be one and, therefore, they cannot even leave, and, therefore, what it means is that the forests of Catalonia are not guarded. In this case, they are eleven years old without being summoned to the square. The middle of age is fifty-two years, and in thirty years will retire half the staff. The 2017 generation, in addition, suffered the tragic murder of two of their agents, and two years and a half after the only one that took place was to buy five hundred anti-ballards and a temporary instruction, but the recommendations of the committee of experts that created Arran of these facts have not been implemented. And agents remain defenseless in terms of self-protection. Moreover, the body is also integrated in 112, which derives from it a large amount of incidences, and this saturation of all its activity, which also includes or should include vigilance and environmental management. And that brings me to 112, another tip of the Emergence Service. They cut off the storms of the year 2017, as you know, there were deficiencies in the 112, because we had a twenty-and-a-minute delay during the storm, that is to say, the twenty-and-a-minute delay without an answer, recognized for the same director of the CAGTU, and at the Reus Hall, in the second storm, that of Cambrils, had left only the minimum services of the night. Therefore, what would be hotter, of course, is to improve this service, would be hotter to professionalize the service of 112 with professional experts in emergencies, would be hotter to improve the working conditions. And instead of recognizing that the service is deficient and that it can be improved, what do you do? So you have just made a bid that is identical in terms of labor and economic conditions to all previous publications for the CAGTU public enterprise, which does not include a system of "holding of guards or localizables, which does not structure the 112 salts or the internal model that they want to attend to the citizens. The function of this new bidding simply perpetuates the precarious and disorganized 112 model. It's also better in 112. And lastly, in the last few years we have also seen the dramatic situation of health transport in Catalonia, and what is at stake in this dramatic situation are the Medical Emergencies Service, the EMS, who are the ones acting before this situation. And again, instead of expanding the staff, instead of improving the working conditions because the teachers want to go to the SEM, you do all the opposite and make totally inconsumable proposals, they have the issue stuck and, which is harder, they don't even apply the salary increase approved for the entire public sector and which has applied to all the workers of safety less than that of the SEM. In short, counselor, the emergency services in Catalonia – the Bombers, the Mossos, the Rural Agents Cos, 112, the SEM – are, all of them, in a crisis situation. The situation is difficult. Call solutions, call structural measures and call urgent responses, counselor. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.233.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the Inner Counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.234.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Congressman, it started when we wanted to score a medal. So, no, we don't want to have a medal. Then he told us that the unions didn't sign the Bombers agreement. It's not true, a union didn't want to do it, it's Workers Commissions – I guess it knows well about it–, and it's the only one, and it's who went against 70_per_cent, almost 70_per_cent of the Bomber Cos. So, if the unions sign this agreement, it's because practically 70 percent of the Bomber Cos workers and workers gave support to this agreement. If there is any union that has not fulfilled the popular mandate of the Firehouse is Workers' Commissions; the others have ratified it. Therefore, in any case, more than arguing to me that there were no unions, perhaps what you have to do is ask him why a union – Workers Commissions – did not want to sign an agreement that was referred for almost 70_per_cent of the Bomber Cos. Therefore, no medals or lack of unions; in any case, one was missing, and he would have to ask why he went against the popular will of the Bomber Cos. What's going to be a minimum deal? I said it the first time, I said it in the presentation. It's not the agreement we want to sign, no; we want to sign another type of agreement. But that's what we can sign and so we signed it. And we signed it after twenty years in which they only signed three, of course; with claims of worth more than two years. I signed it. And we signed the Bombers and us. And there are some commitments that we want to start fulfilling. And, while someone told us that we did this right, it's fake. We approved yesterday, the government approved this agreement, why? So because one of my commitments is that this was done from June 1st. To do so from June 1st, it had to be approved before June 1st, and the last government we had before June 1st was yesterday. So, we have to sign off on the sale because the Tuesday can go to Government and because June 1st can be done. Because, if there's anything between the Bomber Cos and the direction of my department is complicit at the time of troubleshooting – complicit at the time of troubleshooting. He told me about the report from the syndic of Greuges. Of the twenty-three proposals made by the Synod of Greuges, of the twenty-three, fifteen are being made by the Department of Interior. The others do not correspond to the Department of Interior: there are two who correspond to this house, to the Parliament of Catalonia; there is one who corresponds to the Department of Economy; there is only one who corresponds to the joints, to the Assembly of Barcelona also; there is only one who corresponds to the State... Therefore, of the twenty-three, the great majority, who correspond to the Interior, are moving forward, giving solution to the agreement that we have, gives solution to the agreement Bombers 2025 – said « 2027, I suppose it was a mistake, 2025–, there is a move to the proposal made to us by the syndic in the proposal of Bombers 2025, there is an answer in the appropriate signed now with the Bombers... So he's working on it. And the others are pulling them forward. There is no one that affects the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia, which we have already asked them to rectify it or to look for the way in which we can do it. Therefore, of the twenty-three points, I repeat, fifteen correspond to the Department of Interior and these fifteen are being executed, if they are not already executed. Look, we, when we entered the department, the first one we did – the first one we did – it was very clear that a country that wants to have the department of security and emergencies is a mature country, a country that wants to have full powers, a country that doesn't do it for or a government that doesn't do it for adversity. And that's the Interior Department, that's facing security and facing the emergencies of the citizens of this country. So if we don't have to deal with this, we don't have to deal with the adversities that we found when we came in. We came from a few months of 155, we came from a critical – critical – situation, at the infrastructure level, at the worker level, at the vehicle level, at the level of everything you mentioned. That was diagnosed in the first moment. And we explained it. I explained it in this house. Because no one can cope with a mistake if they don't diagnose it or know it first. Once we know him, once we diagnose him, and once we explain him, from here, we start pulling back, we start looking for solutions to all the problems we've had. We diagnosed, analyzed the situation, we looked for solutions, and I think we're finding them, and we put them in practice – we put them in practice. And these are the four activities we've been doing to recover a highly adversity situation from the Interior Department. Surely, other departments of the Government have also found themselves there, with similar situations, but I can speak for my own or my own. A critical situation, of course, eight years without calls to Bombers. It's critical; it's a critical situation. When you..., people are big, and you take down and take away the long malalties, if you don't fill the bag of people, it's normal that in a given moment that it's empty making small, it's normal. So, you have to go full of the bag. When you're eight years old without making firemen, without filling the bag, so you don't have people; it's normal. So, how do we reverse this? They make more firefighters, putting more calls into practice. The first, they didn't pass six months that I was a counselor that we threw in front of the first call, was approved for the government; one of 250 bombers, the most important of the last twenty-five years of Bombers in Catalonia, the most important, 250 bombers. Besides, this was accompanied by promotions for the Bomber Cos. What's that supposed to mean? So base bombers who can ascend, they can take responsibility, they can take title with sergeant, with corporal, with inspector. Why? So because the base is not only to be filled, but also to be supplied with the structure and to be made robust. So, let's get promotions going. And we also look at the lack of reversal for many years. So, the problem wasn't just work, but we also had a weak reversal. So how can they do that? So pulling all the bidding we can. It's more, you know that October 3rd we had a box lock on the government. You know that June 2nd I was a counselor. So, if you count, between June 2nd and October 3rd, four_months pass, counting the August for the middle. Therefore, you execute, there are three_months. Of these three months, count, what do we have to do? I have to appoint the directors general, the secretaries general, and the more we change the dome of Bombers, we set up a new dome. All of this, in these three months. Do you know how much we've run on the 18th? 98_per_cent – from Bombers. What's that supposed to mean? That everything we could have invested, that we went through all the pills, because we diagnosed the problem and we knew we had to make a lot of investment. Therefore, we did everything we could – everything we could. And now we're on the move. In fact, we have more than sixty bids and I'm out. Why? So because we know that there's no material, no helmets, no clothes, no handcuffs, no excarceration equipment, no trucks, no vehicles, etc. So, we're going all the way to get back all these years of disinvestment. Attention, I don't criticize the past, I don't have time to criticize the past, we don't have time to criticize the past. We can feel very good criticizing them, we can think that they did it for one thing or that they did it for another, but it's wasting time. It's a waste of time for me. We are exclusively focused on reversing a situation, a situation of adversity, as I said at the beginning, and I didn't think so. The first day I came to this house, I explained it, and the days I came here, I explained it. Therefore, we are giving the turn to the situation. You're hard, you're expensive. I'd like to go a lot faster, yeah. But with the resources that we have and have the terms that the Public Administration gives us at the time of doing things, it's who they are. But we're going as fast as we can. The deal... The reversal we made last year: 9,3_million euros, with this 98_per_cent, 9,3_million euros, in clothes, I explained when I came here, clothes, maintenance of vehicles, maintenance of buildings, urban rescue equipment, equipment of water rescue, etc.; plus 4_million certificates in works of thousands of parks, because we have parks..., we have parks that are very, very, very, very, but very badly, very, very much. Miri, one of the first parks I went to see was Moià's. It's been a long time since they had the half shut down. Why? So that's because I was just about to fall. And it took a long time for us to have bombers that were in prefabricated modules. For me, it's a shame; for me, this situation is a shame. And, therefore, we try to reverse it as quickly as we can. In view of this year, what do we have in mind? So, look, you know that it's one thing we've approved this buy-in of BRP's - heavy rural bombs; it's the trucks that we usually see, that are the most, let's just say..., those that adapt to all the situations that the bombers can have–, which is a buy-in of 40_million euros. Okay? What do we have on the way? So a purchase of 263 light vehicles, acquisitions of vehicles with transformation, urban light bombs, heavy urban bombs, autoscales, costumes GRAF and GRAE, sub-administration of three_ thousand helmets. And the compromise – the compromise – that the 250 that we have made for this year, the most important promotion of this year, the last twenty-five years of the history of the bombers, we have to repeat it four times more. One, two, three, four. We'll put a thousand bombers there – a thousand bombers. And we'll review, one year and a half, two years from now, see if we have enough of these, and if we have to extend or if we have to make them bigger, because the goal is to reverse the situation as quickly as we can. I'm done. Education is very important, it is very important health, it is very important the social welfare of the whole country, it is very important, but the emergences of this country are also important, because there is no welfare, there is no education and there is no salvation if there is no security. Therefore, emergencies are also a basic pillar of any society. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.235.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the line up, it's the congressman's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.236.0	Well, thank you, counselor. Indeed, emergencies are a pillar, all emergencies, in plurality. Housing emergencies, too, and so what they have to do is protect housing emergencies and protect the vulnerable, because security is protecting the vulnerable from insecurity and not putting us next to Desokupa, as the police in Catalonia did this morning. So... [[Greetings.]] He didn't answer me about the facts this morning. I hope you're doing it now, on the contrary. If not, in any case, counselor, then we will already ask for his appearance in the Internal Committee to explain why the Mosses are standing on the side of Desokupa, whether or not they think to give some direction to change this parameter, and also – and also – why they give explanations about repeated situations in which we see the movements acting in breach of the protocol, and therefore carrying over from the waist, because it is not the first time. Then, when there are repeated situations, we believe that we can take action. Anyway, counselor, I already know it's not all his fault, and I didn't say it, but you can't make it look like there was a change of government here two days ago. That is to say, the situation that we live in, as you yourself recognize, goes from the disinvestment of the last nine years, and here we have had the governments that we have had in the last nine years. But it's true, it's about looking forward. Therefore, I share with you, therefore, that we must make a diagnosis. I think the diagnosis is shared, that the situation is critical, that we just call it off. We have the feeling that what has begun to be done right now are promises and some pieces, and it is necessary that there is a plan of shock and it is necessary to act, but what is called structural measures. In fact, a little more than one month ago, the different political groups of this chamber gathered here, in their parliament, with the unions, with the different bomber unions, and where we actually found that the situation was dramatic, and the message was also very strong. The different unions told him that yes, that they would come to an agreement on work, as he has been, but they all made it very clear that this does not solve the problem of foundations, that the problem of foundations is much bigger, that it is a plate of firefighters to deal with this study, but that it is a country agreement, that it is a strategic planning process that is evaluated, is reviewed and defined the model, it is a calendar of actions, it is a calendar of investments, and above all it is full of assumptions, because the feeling is that we are making commitments that after we do not comply, and so we can reverse this situation. I would also like to refer to the map of parks and study the needs of each territory, as we now have a situation of inflation in the metropolitan area and many areas of the territory that are supposed to be covered but are not actually covered. For what you're doing... also because you told me about dates, didn't you? Of the compromise that June 1st, etcetera. So, miri... And that it was to be approved by the government, or by the governments, to complete this commitment. So in the case of rural agents, the Rural Agents' Committee asks that the Government approve a strategic plan that they promised them where it was the need of 860 agents for the total body, and all the unions of the Rural Agents' Committee warned that, if the plan was not approved during the month of May, they would return to the mobilizations. Well, we're on the 29th, and the strategic plan isn't approved. He could have approved of this last government, too, and they didn't. On the other hand, on March 6, 2019 at the plenary session of the Parliament you announced the intention of the Department of Interior to begin to draw up, starting from the next month of June, yes, so this coming week, a law of emergencies of Catalonia that replaced the laws of 94 and 97, and a law of police of Catalonia. Well, we're at the gates of June, and what I'm asking is if we actually start working on these laws, with five terms, which way, with which participation. We will find it, because we understand that this legal mark is necessary, that it is necessary to update it, and therefore we are working on it to work in this legal mark both of the police system of Catalonia and of the system of emergencies of Catalonia, because we understand that the country needs it. And, therefore, we ask you, counselor, that we pose, that it is possible to work already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.237.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make the later reply, it's the counselor's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.238.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, MPs, I'm asking you to stop lying, please. Just as you lie when you say that the Mosses deny families... They know it's fake – they know it's fake. The moves don't deny anyone; a judge orders the police to act to call a family, and it's a judge who decides. The Mosses don't give up. And that's what you said more than once. So, enough to lie, please. First. Next. You know that the assemblies have an agreement, because who led it, this, was Mayor Trias of Barcelona, a signed agreement asking for justice that before naming a family the judge corresponding with the assembly because the assembly said whether it was a vulnerable family or not, because the assembly could act in advance. And I'm telling you because in that signature I was there, the director Maite Fandos signed it, and I was president of the ACM, and I said, "The one who signed the Barcelona Assembly we have to sign all the meetings in Catalonia, and we signed it through the municipal authorities. Well, if there are charges in this country, it's because the mayor doesn't handle it, or the judge doesn't handle it. Therefore, if there are denunciations in Barcelona... There are meetings in Catalonia that solve the problems; in Barcelona, no. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Explain it to me. But tell me..., you say: "You make promises and pieces. I remind you of a promise with urgent housing: "We will make eight thousand floors. They haven't made eight hundred in four years, and they're all coming from the Trias government. [[Widow's remorse.]] Home, don't fuck me, man. Don't tell me how to eat hard – don't tell me how to eat hard.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.239.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.240.0	Are we working for the emergencies? Okay. Are we working for the emergencies? Okay. But don't come and explain things that aren't, please. I, in emergencies and in search of solutions, will always find myself there; but come and explain things that are not, no, please. Just like in the denunciations, just like saying that the Mosses collaborate with a company that is said to be Desokupa. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's fake – it's fake, it's fake.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.241.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.242.0	I have the report that explains what happened...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.243.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.244.0	I have a report on what happened today. There was a series of people who attacked the police, because they wanted to get into conflict, huh? , with other people, and the police are down at Mig. It doesn't sound like it, nor... the only thing he does is separate himself, get in the middle, because people... there's no mess. And you criticize me for that, and here they criticize me for something else, and then they criticize you for something else. They always criticize the police. Why? Because he's in the middle, because he's trying to make sure people aren't messy, because he's trying to make sure there's no attacks. They do it with certainty and they do it with decency, sometimes, and they're wrong, like you, like me and all of us are wrong. And the day they're wrong... as any of you will work, as when a doctor diagnoses something that is wrong, or when a teacher is wrong; but there are procedures to correct these practices, to fix these errors. We'll work them out and get them out of here. We really don't run away from this, we don't run away from it, and we try to find solutions all over the place. And I turn again to what you were talking about, which were the emergencies – the emergencies. He talked about the SEM, he talked about rural agents. It's a skill not to be around me right now, but I, as the person responsible for emergencies, make them my own. Therefore, any criticism, any solution here, even if I don't respond to myself, I will work there to find solutions. I can talk more concretely about Mossos and Bombers. From Bombers, we're talking about a country agreement. Look, the first one to put the country agreement on the table was a server, with the unions, at the beginning of me coming in as a counselor, and when they told me all about the situation I told them: "In this, we have to reach an agreement in Parliament and we have to pull it forward, and that is why I finished the intervention, at the end of the first, saying that we have to age because there is a series of pillars that a society cannot afford to lose, and that emerges and security is not one. It's very important to society. If you look at the pyramid, the second requirement is the security of people, the tranquility of living in a safe country. Therefore, we must guarantee the security and the emergence of Catalans and Catalans. You mean we have to have more resources? No; it means that security and emergencies are very important for a company, it is a foundation, and therefore we have to guarantee them. And I, the compromise... and this government's commitment is to guarantee it. And that's why we have three thousand places out of all departments – all departments–; all, all departments have given up retirement places to have a thousand places in security and emergencies. And one time – and I told the union – we get the solution straight, which is a convenient job, even though it's at a minimum; a series of bids to get back all the material we need, and all the reverse that hasn't been done for many years..., we've got this all done with the country agreement, and we're good with a law. I didn't tell them that we'd be working with you on the same day; we've been working on it and we've let an electoral period pass. And, if I'm not mistaken, I think they're called to a meeting – if it's not this week you're going to – because we said that once you passed the election, we'd find ourselves with all of you. Why? Because these laws were so important that we didn't want them to sit in a debate of two electoral campaigns. Therefore, we have done the internal work, to come, to work with you two laws: Emergencies and Security, which does more than twenty years..., and I think this country is worth..., more than twenty-five, and I think this country deserves to keep them. So I'm counting on all of you to get them out of here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.245.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the agreement on working conditions of the Generality Bombers]] [[300-00137/12]] The next question is about the agreement of working conditions of the Generality Bombers, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. The honourable Member Mr Ferran Roquer explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.246.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Counselor, Secretary General, Director General of Fire Prevention and Fire Extinguishing, well, today is a day when we're talking about long firefighters. Counselor, I'm kidding– you already know– I always tell him who named him for this advice didn't want him well. I know it's not true, I know it's not true, but in any case you're up at the Interior Council at a time when you're confluing on this council a perfect storm. You've made reference, and I'll explain what I mean. 2007 enslaved to the United States a financial crisis in the face of the ownership of toxic assets. The effects of this crisis are soon spreading 'his whole world, to Europe, to the Spanish State and to Catalonia. And up on May 2010, several European and even world leaders warn the Lord Zapatero that, either he touches a few on the ground or, after Ireland and Greece, he will be the next country that will be under a rescue. A period of adjustments begins, a period of adjustments of expenditure begins..., Pla E – remembers –, aids for the birth of children, for the production, for the construction, for the collection of taxes, for the growth of the environment, for the increase of benefits, for the GDP, etc. The Government of the Government of Catalonia, in this context, after years of excessive spending and the realization of works, constructions and repairs in different payment – we do not lose sight of it – you are obliged to make extraordinary adjustments. Extraordinary adjustments that are seen as potent, are affected by successive delliialities that the Spanish Government held at that time: the third additional provision of the Statute, the difficulties in accessing the FLA, the types of interest of the FLA, etc. In this situation, let us add to it the continuing and endemic fiscal deficit suffered by Catalonia, which oscillates between 8.500 and 16,000_million, according to the model we are serving, and which even the entire government of the State does not dare to deny. In any case, what it is..., I don't know in which quantities it oscillates, but methodically it is between 5 and 8_percent of the wealth of this country. What's going on in these circumstances? Therefore, the governments of the Generality are obliged to reduce the acquisition of assets, to reduce the renewal of the actions that the Generality had; it is obliged not to expand plants; it is obliged not to be able to call public offers of employment to replace the functions that leave the body; it is obliged not to rest the equipment; it is called to not be able to build buildings. As all this goes on, there is an increase in the population and surely an increase in the demands of the population. This situation – nine years ago but it is here itself – affects all departments of the Generality, but in particular affects the Interior Department, and affects the Bomber Cos. Get over it. The year 2010– it was said here– there were 2,610 effects on the Bomber Cos, sunny the maximum. From now on, we've reached 2,315. This fact, obviously, causes staff shortages. And to add to it an added factor, in the area of the bombers: in the bombers it is not possible to hire replacement personnel, interested personnel, they have to be called, and after that it is made a call until a bomber that has passed through the academy and is prepared to go to a park, pass, since the call, approximately two years. To address this problem, we can only make more intensive use of the firefighters we already have working on. And, therefore, extraordinary hours had to be done. They are implemented, in a forced manner, with Decree 74/2014, by day and times of the Cos de Bombers. It's worth saying, counselor, with a pay per hour at the end of the normal time, a fact that's strange and that it's hard for us to hear. The unions, as a measure of pressure, asked not to do extraordinary hours, which meant a reduction in efficiency and even difficulties to keep the parks open. You were also found, in the middle of this storm, with an obsolete, old-fashioned mobile park, and I remember you saying in this very Parliament that there was no shop to go to buy heavy rural bombs, that you had to charge them, that you had to do them, and that you had to charge them until they arrived in the parks two years later. You found that the bombers didn't have any material, they didn't have any clothes, they didn't have any handles, they didn't have any excarceration material, they didn't have any urban rescue equipment, they didn't have any water rescue equipment, they didn't have any thermographic cameras, the dressing room was ancient, the rescue hoods, and the gloves, the boats... Counselor, that would act immediately in this sense. You recognized it in the appearance, in the first appearance that you had to the commission. In various areas, we are not able to complete the strategic Pla of Bombers. And you were talking about it, you were talking about the staff, you were talking about the mobile park, about the aging... and I remember that at some point you said that you found yourself with trucks that didn't have safety belts. We found deficiencies, and you recognized them, in the material and the operation needed to intervene in the same emergence. He talked about infrastructure, he talked about different infrastructure that affected the seventy-three professional bomber parks and the seventy-seven volunteer bombers. In this storm, which you find at the time of arrival, you, in the department, there is the application of Article 155 on the Government of the Government of Catalonia, which makes it difficult, which made it difficult... Up late – you say it – above with extended assumptions... It is in a limited situation with the staff, with waves; it finds various waves, that..., until we had a meeting in this house with the representatives of the unions and various representatives of the Department of Digital Policies, of the Vice-President's Department, and you yourself, who presided over it. Yesterday the government approved an agreement between the Interior Department and the trade union representatives of Bombers. Which way, counselor, will this agreement improve the initial situation of the body? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.247.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.248.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, MPs... I told the fellow MP that I don't like talking about the past because I don't have time to talk about the past and it's up to me to talk about the future and look for solutions. So, the analysis you did of how we found each other is fine, huh? But I'm not going to give it any money. Anyway, I can explain how we got to where we got to, can't I? And as we have arrived and as we are before the situation, as we can face it. Specifically, the agreement, let's say, labor, the conditionality pact, as I would say, the last one signed with the Bombers is from the year 2006 – the year 2006. So he's already in an unusual situation having thirteen years without a work agreement, isn't he? But the situation is so abnormal, that the year 2014, for a lack of firefighters... [[The timer shows the camera a full in which graphics are reproduced.]] Actually, I've taught this picture a lot of times, haven't I? In red are the summonses that have been made of Bombers. When there's no red stripe, it's because there's no call. So, look at all this drilling out of here, this drilling out of here, this drilling out of here... years and years that didn't happen. So what we say is that it doesn't work out. So, what's the government doing at the time? He lacks it personally and says: "So the one who will have to work the most. And it makes a decree, which is not granted with the body, with the unions, go, the year 2014, in which it makes them complete 1,790 hours, when for a functioning is 1,688 or 1,684, I do not remember well. That was the year 2014. The year 2017 is the first meeting between unions and the Government of the Government of Catalonia, to talk about the agreement, to review the situation of working conditions, okay? The year 2017, at the end of the year, is approved this strategic plan that commented the deputy of the previous inquiry, which is not presupposedly endowed. There's an agreement and it's not presumptively gifted. And the Bombers Cos notes it as a deception – the note as a deception – because it says: "Home, you told me you would do all this, you approved it for the government and there is no presuppositional endowment. So, they feel deceived, don't they? Then he sees 155 and we're on our way. And this is the climate we find ourselves in. From here what do we do? So, I explained: let's analyze, let's explain what the situation is, let's see what the situation is, and let's try to turn around. The first one we've ever done? So, make a change of command, huh? The change of command, the same thing also called for. We make a change of command and start working on the reversal, which I explained before, that in three months we practically execute 100 percent of the assumption, right? That means there's been a machine, the back office of the Interior Department has been working all over the machine, on hard marches, to bid on everything we can, because it couldn't be that we got to the end of the year and had a game without spending. We'd have to spend them all. Because it wasn't an expense, it was an inversion, an inversion that made many years waiting for the Cos de Bombers. And we're starting to work with the agreement review. Let's start working on the social part of the deal review. This approval of the 250 places of firemen, which, I repeat, is not a bet of the Department of Interior, it is a bet of the Government of the Generality, because unfortunately the State, governing the PP and governing the PSOE, with the members of the PP and with the members of the PSOE, do not raise the possibility of hiring the public administrations personally. And we need to use a tool that says the repositioning rate. From here, through the repositioning rate, which is: from the people who retire from an administration, you can take this square and use it in a series of cases, such as security and emergencies. So, from here all the departments of the Generality lose their seats, which they give up to the Interior in order to have these 250 bombers and these 750 moves, which was approved for this Parliament a few months ago – I think it was in the month of disembarkation – for a vast, vast majority. But you said it, it's a lot of wheat to make a fireman. We reduce, in the case of moves, because it is a longer term or because the last call was very slow..., we reduce the call of these 750 moves by 28_per_cent, and we reduce the call of these 250 bombers by 21_per_cent. We need people and we need them now. Why? So, because the architect makes the race and opts for some opposition; the engineer makes the race and opts for some opposition; the economist makes the race and opts for some opposition; in the case of moves and bombers, first they do the opposition and then they make the race, which is not a race, but they are new, de_mesos to the institute. So let's just say it goes the other way around: we don't have a bump of movers or a bump of bombarders on the market, but we have to take our seats first. That's why there's got to be an all-government effort, and that's why we've reduced the calls to the maximum. But it's clear how these two were the previous ones and these two are the new ones; as we move forward, we're as fast as we can put firefighters and firefighters in the Firehouse. The same month of December, as you say, there is either the will or the decision taken by the workers of the Bomber Cos to say that, as they are in a critical situation, to do many hours, and we came from the critical situation many years back, more of this agreement that was approved for the government but that there was no presuppositional endowment and, therefore, they felt deceived, so... We in six months did not give us time to fix it all. So they made the decision not to do more outside hours. And that meant a park block, because, when you don't have people, the people you need to work the most. If these people stop doing outside hours... that's a lawful decision, huh? I do not criticise it, nor question it so alone, but when they decide to make this decision, then parks must be closed. And we've been four months in a critical, very critical situation. By the way... and you proved it to the meeting that we were here, that we already said, as the company said before, that you would certainly agree with the agreement, with the agreement that we signed; that it was not the best, but that we wanted to get out of that situation. But I believe... because here too there is a point of trust between the same firemen, the same unions and the department. And I want to think that there is also a point of trust, to see that the situation is critical, as I said and we diagnosed it at the beginning, but that it was intended to capture this situation. For example, the purchase of the two trucks, with this cost or inversion of 40_million euros. For example, these 9,3_million euros invested in three_months, from the past year; 9,3_million euros, which is an important figure, and, I repeat, with the processing of public execution, it is difficult to make an investment of 9,3_million euros, because you always have, so..., you don't have time, huh? 'cause before you take the game, you don't call, before you don't bid, before there's no bidding, before there's no bidding, it's been a long time. But, well, where did we get to? We have reached an agreement, we have reached an agreement on the social side and we have reached some commitments that we are implementing in reverse. Therefore, if we were to diagnose the principle that the problem was labor and reversal, we have to face up to the agreement of conditions and reverse. We pulled the chord forward, we almost pulled it with a 70_per_cent of the entire template. The deal goes on to hire a thousand firefighters in four years, with the compromise to do the review that comes between you, to see how the evolution of the template went, huh? Because if we don't have to do more, then we'll do more. The agreement also passes because, in the event of a more favourable situation, economically speaking, on the part of the Government, this agreement will be reviewed. It also passes to make internal promotions, as I said before; internal promotions between the same workers to go make robust, go make the body in general. Pass to match the price of the extra hour to the price of the normal hour as at the very least, because they are now charging the price of the extra hour under the price of the normal hour. It also goes through a complement that doesn't have a park closed in Catalonia; therefore, this is important, because, if not, all the parks will work, we have the compromise and we have the guarantee that they will remain open. He goes through an hour reduction; if they remember the decree I told him of 2014, that he gave them 1,790 hours, then they would go down. And what I want is to give thanks to the union, I want to give thanks to the whole team of firefighters, I want to give thanks to the whole group of firefighters, and I want to give thanks to the negotiating side of the department too, which among all of them have found a space to get out of this point of, let's say, I don't agree. They've been able to find it among all of us, we're focusing on the agreement, we've moved forward on the labor issue, now it's up to us to move forward on the investment issue, and that's why, therefore, it's an agreement that's really important. Are you happy? Yeah. Are they coves? No, no, Why? So that's why there's a lot of work left to do. Are you all right? No, because there's a lot of work left to do. Aren't we going to rest? No, because we have a lot of work to do. From here, we have taken one more step; it is not the last, we have to keep walking. So, with the support of the same workers and the department and the commitment to get out of it, we'll give it around, I'm not convinced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.249.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on the management of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[300-00136/12]] The next question is about the management of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the question was raised by Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.250.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillors. Counsellor, you have turned the public media in Catalonia into a private club made by separatists and for separatists, a club that excludes more than half of Catalans; that is, paid for by all. According to the CEO, only 5.4_per_cent of citizens' voters and 14.2_per_cent of Socialist Party voters have TV3 as their reference channel. Aren't you worried about this, Counselor? Although, of course, I... I'm not surprised they don't see it, because anyone who tunes TV3 is subjected to their nationalist intoxication. You have been doing what you really want for years with TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio, including the tripartite years, when the PSC had the great idea of putting the media in the hands of Esquerra Republicana. That is, TV3 and education in the hands of Esquerra Republicana : what a great idea! Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, really; what could go wrong? – what could go wrong? And, of course, of those dusts, these muds, to the point that we have at the head of the corporation someone whom the lawyer himself of the director of Catalunya Ràdio describes as a "political commissioner of the Soviet Union". And do you know what this has all come to? In which the dome of TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio are charged for the crime of criminal organization. Well, in particular, it is the prosecutor's office who asks that Ms. Núria Llorach, president of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, be prosecuted for the crime of criminal organization; Mr. Vincent Sanchis, director of TV3; Mr. Saul Gordillo, director of Catalunya Ràdio; and Mr. Martí Patxot, director of Marketing and Sales of the Corporation. There's nothing there, Counselor. And I ask him, who is the boss of this whole band? And we are talking not only about the crime of criminal organization, but also about the crime of disobedience for issuing the October 1 announcements; announcements that, by the way, the Constitutional Court had already expressly prohibited. It's just that Mrs. Llorach was actually notified by the Constitutional Court. Do you remember these advertisements, Counselor? I'm sure you remember; you and all Catalans, because for weeks Catalunya Ràdio and TV3 dedicated themselves to broadcasting and bombing Catalans with hundreds of these ads calling for participation in an illegal act. But, of course, perhaps you are one of those who have little memory; I will remind you of one of these ads. Look, there were railway tracks and there was a phrase that said: "You were born with the ability to decide. Will you give up on her? I was wondering. And it's curious, it's curious because millions of Catalans, although they were also born with the ability to decide, the only thing they could decide to avoid the propaganda that you were issuing, illegal propaganda, was to switch channels; they had no choice but to switch channels, a channel that is that they also pay with their money. This is the idea that you have of neutrality and plurality for the media in Catalonia: that you have no choice but to change channels. And it's curious too, it's curious because you were also born with that ability to decide. And you know what they decided, Counselor? They decided to disobey. Despite having an express knowledge of the ruling issued by the Constitutional Court, with all the warnings of the world, with all the knowledge of the case, you decided to disobey. Why? Because they had plans, of course: to strike in Catalonia to separate the rest of Spain; no more or less. And we say, yes, but so does the prosecution, that I insist that you want to prosecute them for a crime of criminal organization. Are you planning on doing something, Mrs. Budo? I don't know what you think of this. I say this because we have already seen how this Parliament reproached Mr Sanchis and you have not done it, you have done absolutely nothing about it. And the same with Mrs Llorach, who is the longest-running president in history I've ever seen. And I also remind you that this Parliament adopted a motion calling for Mrs Llorach's resignation in 2017, and we are still waiting for her to leave. It is that you fill your mouths talking about Parliament's mandate, but only listen to those who are good for you. But let's talk a little bit about Mrs. Llorach. We know she was chosen by her Convergence Carnet. We also know that, as she says, she holds a temporary presidency – which I say to me already seems vital to me. And we also know more things, that we know about them as a result of the judicial investigation. It turns out that Mrs Llorach was working to coerce the director of Catalunya Ràdio, Mr Gordillo, so that he would issue the illegal announcements of the referendum, which was also illegal. And so it is incorporated in the judicial case. Mr Gordillo's lawyer, as I have told you before, compares Mrs Llorach's pressures with those of a political commissioner from the Soviet Union, and provides documents, in addition, where we can see these coercions. Thus we see, for example, in these documents, how Mrs Llorach tells Mr Gordillo: "You and your conscience will know, but remember that you entered the direction of Catalunya Ràdio supported by your commitment and the trust that certain people have placed in you. I, sincerely, counsel..., this is more typical of the mafia than a president of a public medium, sincerely. What was this commitment? What was this commitment, Mrs Budó? Doing everything possible to complete the coup on September 6 and 7, even if this involved committing crimes? Because Mrs. Llorach was very aware of what she was asking – well, rather than what she was demanding – and Mr. Gordillo was also aware, and hence his initial reticences. I recommend everyone to look for the content of these emails from Mrs Llorach, because they are very illustrative of the strategy and instrumentalization of the public media in Catalonia, eh? It's all picked up in the cause. There are even WhatsApp conversations where Gordillo's lawyer advises him and says: "You are not obliged to comply with an order if you know it is illegal – all this referring to those orders given by Mrs Llorach. At other times Gordillo also expresses fears at the criticisms of botifler and regrets that the pressures he receives are based on zero arguments, only authoritarianism and patriotism, to which the lawyer answers: "They have all lost together the north, the east, the west and the south. Wow, I had this man more reason than a saint. I..., Mrs. Budó, if you treat yours like this, what won't you do with the rest? What won't they do? It's just that fear gives me. I insist that all this can be found by you in the case opened on 1 October. I, of course, suppose that in the end, when one sees that this justice thing is serious and that you can drop a conviction, then you bring out any evidence that seems relevant to you, like these e-mails from Mrs. Llorach. There are also others who do what they do is run away to Waterloo and leave their own. Of course, for tastes, colors, and with strategies, the same. In any case, Mrs. Budó, doesn't this seem like a scandal to you, really? That is, that the director of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans is dedicated to giving orders to a public radio director to do things that they know are illegal doesn't seem like a scandal? Doesn't it seem to you that the TV and radio we pay all the Catalans in our pocket serve as criminal machinery? Because the prosecutor insists that he is talking about ‘criminal organisation, which is that they are very serious words, Madam Counselor, they are very serious crimes. I am ashamed of what you have done with public television and radio, which should be everyone's. The problem is that once again you think you're just yours, right? They think that Parliament is theirs, they think that public buildings are theirs, they think that the streets are theirs, they think that all Catalonia is theirs! But that's good enough, isn't it? All right, that's it. Have they not been content to manipulate each day, every day from the Catalan public media, but have also placed them outside the law? What were they thinking? That they were also going to get away with all this? Did they think so, too? Look, I personally say to you that I would like one day in Catalonia to be able to talk and stop blaming the government for using the public media to go against most Catalans, and to stop using them as one more speaker in the process. But, of course, today is impossible for us. Or, rather, Mrs. Budó, you make it impossible, because you use TV3 as an apparatus of agitation and propaganda in the service of the separatist cause. I mean, get out of the bubble and stop feeling unpunished, Counselor. Because, look, out of the process bubble, reality every day takes away their reason. Yesterday we knew that the European Court of Human Rights, Strasbourg, where you have put all your hopes, has once again given the constitutionalists the right, once again giving us the right! Because, as much as TV3 is committed to denigrating Spanish democracy, it turns out that Spain is a fully internationally recognized democracy. Stop distorting reality, as you did for example yesterday, counselor, saying that fifteen councillors, forty-one, in the City Hall of Barcelona, are a majority, Mrs Budó. Not – not, not – Mrs. Budo! That fifteen of forty - one rulers are not a majority, no matter how hard you commit! But, of course, it's that you and you are a factory to make fake news, and to the last I refer; the last one is from today. That is, it turns out that from the creator of 'in Germany they have judged and acquitted them, they now arrive 'in the UN they give us reason again. You don't see that? – they don't see no? And of course, of course, TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio have run to give candy and platter to this news, this news that Mr Torra said today. You don't see that? That they don't get tired of being ridiculous? I hope you will give me some response to all this that I have explained to you today, because I insist that I find it shameful to use the public media that we pay for all Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.251.0	To answer the word has the adviser of the Presidency, Mrs. Meritxell Budó. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.252.0	Well, it's really late for everyone and everything. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Miri, I've been taking up and holding this new responsibility as the President's Counsellor, and it's the second question about the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation that they make me through their group. And, therefore, the first one I can say is that you yourselves in the last inquiry already told me, that this inquiry could almost become a fixed section of plenary sessions. And, look, I would actually be delighted that it was so, that this was a fixed section of the plenary sessions, whenever the hope of their interventions was a built-up spirit, a real political debate spirit, a rich spirit in contributions and sum. But it's beyond reality. In fact, what can we expect from a political group that doesn't need to load the linguistic immersion and that doesn't need to close the Catalan public audiovisual media? Because this is the only intention and the only reason to be in his group. They have said this on repeated occasions, I am not saying anything that you have not said with your own words. And, therefore, what can we expect from a group that only wants the Catalan public media to close them: TV3 and Radio Catalunya. But the truth is that I believe that, in fact, here we are what would be hot, so, precisely, it is what you do not do, that they are contributions of sum, as I say, of building a real political debate and not, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, letting go, talking about communication means, all the barbarity that the honourable Member has just said. Miri, in fact, we are in the Parliament of Catalonia, which you also sometimes seem not to know what it is, one of the most important institutions in this country. Miri, we are in the Parliament of Catalonia, where the word has to be the vehicle to reach agreement, not to win, not to confront, which is the only one they know how to make from their group repeatedly. In fact, I told you, no problem that this section is a fixed section of questions on the subject, but the truth is that..., more original, more original because the ones you raise are always – always – the same recurring approaches, as is also its way of acting. Mirin, lords of Ciutadans, is very easy to hear: from the government there is no political control over public media. And the guarantee of this is precisely in the model of public media of communication. And if they want to, we'll talk about it. And we're talking about how it's through Parliament that the dome that runs the communication media needs to be changed. And we can remind you that this agreement was near here in Parliament, and that it was you who jumped off the "boat and did not want to continue working on this renewal of the heads of the Catalan corporation. I remember, changing the corporation's dome from here in Parliament, and you jumped off the "boat when you were..." and were part of the commission that was to take this deal. So, memory, everyone's. Miri, and as long as we talk about public media. And we invite them, in fact, to come back and talk about this again. Perhaps now that the electoral cycle is over they will be able to sue and talk to it, because, in fact, the government has never said that it does not want to talk. It was you who jumped, I repeat, from the "boat. We need to talk, and as long as we don't talk, about public media, about a model that works, about a model that explains Catalonia to the world and explains the world from a Catalan optics, a model of national quality television and radio. This is the Catalan public communication media. And our model is based on three criteria: the criteria of independence, the criteria of professionalism and economic viability. Miri, you were talking about data, CEO data, some data that, along with their interpretation, do not fail to repeat to us repeatedly that the public communication media are the ones of the highest audience, that the month of April another time we have been leaders in the audience, during twenty-one months followed. This is the success of the Catalan public media. Of the thirty days you have the April, TV3_was the most viewed channel in twenty-seven days, and you've got the fifteen most viewed race programs from TV3. The information, not to say, are leaders in all its editions and is kept in the forefront of quality achievement, and they are also leaders in impartiality, quality and credibility. TV3 telenews are leaders in impartiality with a 94_per_cent and leaders in credibility with a 96,2_per_cent. Listen to these three criteria: impartiality, quality and credibility, which you would like, precisely, to have no Catalan public media. We can talk about the independence criteria – so much so that they denounce it that it's not like that, huh? – and how we ensure this independence, because our model is also a model of success in this aspect. We are talking about control over media, which are of three types and which guarantee this independence: parliamentary control, control of the Council of Audiovisual and control of the Union of Accounts. Three types of control with strict transparency, because the reports of all of them are published and have direct access. Mirin, we're talking audience and leadership, huh? And it won't be a coincidence that once again, as I said, special programs, also follow-up programs – here we take... – of the election nits, there have been those who have had a major success audience. An excellent result of the special programming of the general elections and also of the municipal elections and the European elections of past diumenge, in which more than 3,200,000 spectators connected with TV3. An electoral diumenge that leads the screen quota. All the contrary – all the contrary – as you must know, of the case of the compensations required for the Central Electoral Board, which have given rise to the hearings. And that's what happens – that's what happens – when the criteria are not professional – that's what happens when the criteria are not professional. And if you want to comment on the CEO's data as well, they have to fill in that TV3 is the preferred channel to be informed. According to the first news of 2019, more than half of the polls follow the information through TV3 and Channel 3/24. And in the field of radio, one_third does so through Catalunya Radio and Catalunya Information. It also highlights the significant increase in the follow-up of thematic information channels. You know and have these data. And if the model is more clear to them, that it defends some objects arising from consensus and public service, that guarantees independence and professionalism, and that it practices maximum transparency, then we can move forward. And I invite them to move forward, despite everything, I invite them to move forward. And moving on to where? So, in the face of the future that the new digital world poses. And it's from this perspective that we need to talk about the need to modify the Audiovisual Law, as well as the Law of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. I'm done. Look, our positions in many themes – and communication media is probably one of the clearest – are so far away that we could say directly opposed. And that, in a democracy, is normal and desirable in a plural society. But what is not normal and what is very difficult and very worrying is that it wanted to create an interested report, as the Member here did to us today, an interested report about our media, which is just fake news, the report that you did here. You, Lords of the City, have contributed a great deal to this report; in fact, they are the ideas of this report. And I'm convinced that the most critical and critical of TV3 are those who never see it, never look at it. And if they see it, and if they look at it, they show bad faith in wanting to manipulate plurality, objectivity, and quality of service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.253.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, it's the congresswoman's turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.254.0	Thank you, President. The truth is, you've curled the curl. Now it turns out that it's us we're manipulating. Come on, counselor, please, if it's really, really that... you're new, you've said it yourself, but the mantras are known to the finger, and perhaps, as it's new, because you don't know well well..., you don't know well what you said, but, look, I'll explain it to you. Look, I criticise us for what we say, not for what you would like us to say, for example, what you said to eliminate TV3. No, no, no, no, we want you to stop manipulating and stop using TV3 as a separatist propaganda device. [[Greetings.]] That's what we want. Let's see if he can get a little into their heads. But, of course, it is that you have come here today, you have done nothing self-critical, because you brought the speech you have written from home and you have merely said nothing else; you have not answered anything, because I have asked you several questions. How do you feel about the prosecution's opinion that the directors and the TV3 dome have committed a crime of criminal organization? What do you think? Who was the band leader? Tell me about it. Tell me why, really, you haven't answered anything at all. Do you know what I'm telling you? That does not cease to be symptomatic of the extreme politicization of TV3, the fact that its separatist acceleration coincides precisely with the moment when separatist parties have fallen down and have already definitively unleashed their radical separatism, when it has reached its maximum expression. When was this? With the investiture of Mr. Torra, a person who is able to say that the Spaniards we dedicate ourselves to stripping or that the Spanish speaking, therefore, we are beasts mad with human form. That's what's going on. This is not just about disobedience, which you have not told me at all about the crime of disobedience, which is already serious. This is not just the crime of criminal organization that the prosecution appreciates, which is also very serious. It is that one day after another you manipulate, it is the lack of neutrality, it is the absence of plurality and the partisan use of the media in Catalonia, eh? It's just that you guys do everything the same, and besides, no repairs. And the message you have been sending to citizens for years is very irresponsible and dangerous too. I mean, do you have a conviction for corruption, like Mr. Oriol Pujol? It's okay, the government gives you a prize and they give you third grade. That the Electoral Board fine you for having a separatist banner in the Generalitat? Hey, look, with nationalism you can even be president of the Generalitat. What are you accused of justice? Well, you can be director of TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio. That's the message you're sending. Because it's also that the partisan use they make of TV3 is double. When they don't use it for their illegalities, they use it as propaganda machinery for the process, huh? Which, by the way, has made me so much fun, too. He has told me that you are subject to parliamentary control. But what parliamentary control if Mr. Sanchis is reprobated by the chamber and does not pay attention – he does not pay attention – which seems to go with him the wrong way! [[Greetings.]] Reproved by this Parliament! Mrs. Budo. And more things. Up to four times we have had to go to the Electoral Board in this election period for the blatant use they have made of the media. Four times we've gone, four times we've been right. But does it seem normal to you that we have to go to the Electoral Board because TV3, she alone, is not able to guarantee neutrality? Really? Doesn't that really sound funny to you? That we are talking about public television, that of all Catalans, and it turns out that we have to go to the Electoral Board to claim the abuses you commit. And it's not just during the election period. No, no, it's just that I tell you it's every day, because the editorial line that follows is very clear. And then we have to see things, like being dehumanized, right? , that we are even animalized, as they did the other day with the president of my party. But, of course, this is in full agreement with what Mr Torra thinks, who calls us « mad beasts. Do you know what this proves? That TV3 works as a transmission belt of separatist message, no more or less, Mrs. Budó. And we also have to see, for example, how you laugh, laugh on TV3, from the donation of a kidney, as you did with Mr Millo, that you laugh at something so sensitive that it seems miserable to me; it's the most miserable thing I've ever seen on a public television, huh? We also need to see TV3 collaborators who are devoting themselves to insulting my partner, Mrs. Arrimadas. I remind you that Toni Albà called her "bad whore, Mrs. Llorach... – Mrs. Llorach, no. Does Mrs. Llorach know what she did? He justified it by saying that good, that it was a sense of humor. "Sense of humor," said Mrs. Llorach. But then they come here to teach feminism lessons, huh? What is it, Mrs. Budo? What's that? That's nothing macho, is it? No, no, No, no, because when then on TV3 they set examples of macho, you see what chance, what chance they find only examples of constitutionalists, and in particular of my colleagues, Nacho Martín and Jordi Cañas, who call them macho, you know why? , for interrupting in a chat. Wow, what we all do, Mrs. Budo. [[Greetings.]] Look, I..., make him look at you – make him look at you. Public television should never be a tool to encourage hatred. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] A public television cannot become a teleprocess, and public institutions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.255.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.256.0	... – I finish, I finish, President – you are not a showcase where, you, put your separatist propaganda. What is of all Catalans is not property of separatism...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.257.0	Congresswoman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.258.0	...or the public media. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.259.0	For the reply you have the word "adviser".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.260.0	To see – thank you, President – are you never tired? Isn't it ever tired of digging red lines here in the Parliament of Catalonia? [[Greetings.]] Really, isn't he tired? That's surreal. Listen, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, There are always three institutions at stake: the Barcelona Provincial Board, which usually resolves in favor of the company's allegations; then we find that the Central Electoral Board resolves the contrary, and finally the corporation has to appeal to the Administrative Disputes Tribunal and wait a few years for its resolution. But, look, the Central Electoral Board, this one that you come out here and explain that he's the savior of the country... maybe you've taken him as the savior of the country. Because, listen, look, it was the Central Electoral Board, precisely, that did not want the very honorable President Puigdemont to be present in the European elections. And you know what? He didn't just show up, he won them. [[Greetings.]] And, look, I'm going to remind you of something else, 'cause, you know, if you're going to make memorize, we're going to follow all the folds. Listen to me, I also remember what the Catalonian Journalist College said at the time: it said that once more the Central Electoral Board went beyond its functions. And in fact – in fact – the Journalist College understands that it represents a full-fledged intrusion into one of the central pillars of democracy, such as freedom of expression and political non-interference. Look, if they want to talk about manipulation, I invite them to listen to workers from other public media. I invite you to listen as the Spanish Television, on repeated occasions, have denounced the manipulation and censorship imposed by the direction of the Spanish Television information. The workers are taxed when they say that there is no pluralism on Spanish television. This has never happened with TV3 workers. I suppose they also remember that the Spanish public channel was expelled – it was expelled – from the European Broadcasting Union's Information Committee after reports denied for information manipulation. There have been studies on information, but also on third parties, and the results are always the same; always – always – they are the same, and it is that the third parties of the communication media of the Catalan, public and private, are more plural than those of the Spanish chains. Look, all the data unravel the accusations against the Catalan public media, which leads me to think that the attacks against the public media are part of a strategy to justify their intervention, which is their political will – I said to the beginning, in the first intervention – that it is one of the reasons why their political group was born. They criticise many TV3 programs repeatedly, programs that have large audiences, such as FAQS, huh? But what they should criticise, what they should criticize and denounce are cases like those of their presenter, who when she was on Spanish television asked for more plurality in her program and then she was taken in by interference and indiscipline. Look, we, the Catalan public media, we want plurals, we want independents and we want frees, and we want frees and independents. And that is why, for this reason, I repeat, to conclude, that the governance of the public media will be what the Parliament of Catalonia wants it to be, as has been done so far, not as the Ciutadans Group wants it to be. It will be what the Parliament of Catalonia, with its majorities, wants and decides. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-29-3201.261.0	Thank you, Counselor. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
