ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.1.0	The session begins. The list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is included in the dossier and, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules, will be replaced this morning as the first item on the agenda of this plenary session. In the first place, and before going to the questions, I am sure that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules, the deputy Ferran Pedret, with a motion for parental leave, has delegated his vote for this plenary session to the deputy Eva Granados, spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, and so also that the deputy María del Camino Fernández Riol has delegated her vote to the deputy Lorraine Roldán, spokesman of the parliamentary group of Ciutadans. Also the memory that deputy Raül Romeva has appointed deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise his parliamentary rights. [[Ask the government about the negotiations with the Catalan Institute of solo for the purchase of land where the recent casinos of Hard Rock are to be replaced.]] [[310-00192/12]] [[The first item on the agenda, therefore, are the questions with an oral answer to the Government. The first question to be answered orally in the House is on the negotiation of the Català del Sol Institute for the purchase of land where the recent Hard Rock casinos, formulated on behalf of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Pomera, are to be replaced by Mr David Cid. When he wants to.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.2.0	Thank you, President. From our parliamentary group we would like to know who will pay the citizens of Catalonia – now it seems..., according to the Platform Aturem Barcelona World –..., for the purchase of land to « the Box on behalf of the Catalan Institute of the Sun, or for its consultancy, we will theoretically have to locate this hotel complex and the game now known as Hard Rock Cafe.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.3.0	To answer the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.4.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, advisors, Mr. David Cid, the Government has worked, is working and will work to create the conditions that allow us to develop this strategic project for the economy of the Costa Daurada, the Camp de Tarragona and ultimately the country, and this includes that we effectively exercise the option of purchase, signed in your day, with light and tachygraphs, and that these lands will be made available to the winner of the casino competition also, therefore, developed with light and tachygraphs on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.5.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.6.0	Not bad: from Eurovegas to Barcelona World, from Barcelona World to Hard Rock, and now to Casinos Generalitat, SA; from Adelson to Veremonte, from Veremonte to Melco, from Melco to Peralada, from Peralada to Hard Rock and now to Incasòl and Damià Calvet. So, there wasn't enough of an urban project to measure, there wasn't enough to modify the Law of the game, but more the Generality has to be responsible for the project buying the land in this case to "the Box". It seems incredible to me – incredible. I think we have to stop doing ridiculous things like the country, I think we have to stop playing Monopoly, I think this project is not of interest to Catalonia, I think this project does not represent the tourist model that Catalonia needs. And what we understand is that if the generality has to do this step, it's because this project doesn't work, because this project doesn't work. And what we don't understand is how Mr. Pere Aragones, with the economic situation the Generality has, is willing to give him 120_million euros in this case to the Incasól so that he can come to an agreement with the Box and do him a favor to the Box. We don't really understand it, and it doesn't seem like it – it doesn't seem like it – is a waste. Because in these moments that become responsible for this project are the city and city of Catalonia; who will play the roulette with public money are you. Because, if this project fails, which will lose public resources, it is not just its Government of the Generality..., it will be the city council and citizens of Catalonia. Therefore, explain why the Generality has to allocate 120_million euros – if it is 120_million euros – to buy land that is from the "Box" for a project that is theoretically a private investment, a project that moreover does not fit with the tourist model of Catalonia, which is based on the game and tourism in this case of soil and plagiarism. We don't understand. On many occasions, you said that the Generality would not exercise this option of purchase; you said that the Generality would never buy these lands, and that this was a private investment and an agreement between privates, between the Box and in this case a private investor. Is that what you lied about? Is it that you fooled the citizens of Catalonia? Or is it that this has to do a favor to the Box and that the risk of the reversal in this case is assumed by the citizens of Catalonia? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.7.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.8.0	Thank you very much. If we were to do something about Catalonia's Radio translator, we would say that you disagree with this project, neither you nor your group. But this is evidence, we already knew it a long time ago; in fact, it was already discussed with its predecessor, so it really showed this lack of agreement with this project. But that you do not like it does not mean that it is a bad project, or that it is a project that aims against the territory, or that I do not have all the guarantees of social, economic, and environmental sustainability. You make a film, a theory of the conspiracy of "the Box", when there is nothing more far from the reality. Everything that has been done with respect to this project has been – before I said it – with light and stenographers. This Parliament of Catalonia – this Parliament of Catalonia – has voted two laws to make this project possible: the first, year 89, which created the CRT, and the second, the Law 6/14, voted for a majority here in Parliament, which effectively allows to donate complementary uses to the CRT and thus be able to develop this project. Therefore, light and stenographers in the elaboration of the law. The second, with the urban director plan, an urban director plan that went through two initial approvals, that went through public information, for environmental assessments, and that even the legitimate vice president, Oriol Junqueras, presented with normality to the territory. And the third, with the purchase option. But when did I say we wouldn't exercise the option of buying, if we signed it? The purchase option is executed and then passed. They say the papers, they say in the casino competition, which also developed the Government of the Generality, through the Department of Economy, which says that the owner of the casino license will acquire the land. How will he acquire them? Through Incasòl, that's who has the option to buy. If we did a press wheel, year 14 or 15, I don't remember now, to explain the purchase option. What we have said once and for all is that the Generality will not make any..., it will not have any additional cost, there will not be a public investment in this project. But it will exercise the buying option, effectively.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.9.0	Counselor, your time is up. [[Pause.]] Thank you. [[Ask the Government about consumer policies]] [[310-00199/12]] The next question is about consumer policies and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.10.0	Thank you, President. Last week we knew a project named "Consum Estratègique", presented for the National Assembly of Catalonia, and we would like to know which is the opinion of the Government and concretely of the Business Council in relation to this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.11.0	To answer the word, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mrs. Maria Àngels Chacón. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.12.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. You ask me this question why you've detected that from the Consumer Directorate we're promoting some kind of boycott? I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.13.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.14.0	Thank you, Counselor. I remind you that this is a government control session, not an opposition control session. Therefore, the game is that we ask and you answer. In any case, your absence of response is what I'm certainly concerned about, not what you told me. Mirin, this campaign of the ANC is a campaign that is protectionist, it is allaist, it is ultranationalist, it is all the contrary of what an open and interdependent economy, which has brought us to growth in the last forty years to Catalonia; it is a campaign that is profoundly antagonistic to the economic principles of the European Union; it is economic racism – economic racism. A couple of weeks ago I asked myself about industry in Catalonia, we pointed out some weaknesses in the industrial sector; we also see some weaknesses in other sectors, also in tourism: a drop in important national tourism in Catalonia. And according to experts, the origins of these weakened, one of the origins of these weakened, are political tensions. And this is an example. We play a lot, counselor, we play a lot. Let's play the Catalans' welfare. Catalan companies come to 40,000_million euros to the rest of Spain; 70,000_million euros to the rest of the world. Catalan employers, such as Pimec and Foment, have already come out to reject this initiative; the Chamber of Commerce is obviously not, because it is secreted by the ANC. And the government has absolutely nothing to say. We're worried about that, Counselor. In response, let's play the freedom of business, let's play the economic freedom, let's play the freedom of Catalans. And from the government we can expect nothing more than the firmest of these characteristic initiatives. You've got a second chance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.15.0	To answer, again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.16.0	Look, if I asked him the question – and I don't miss the answer; I'm answering it right now – it's to know if you've detected that from the department we've pushed any kind of boycott. And I don't think anyone can say that. Because from the Catalan Consumer Agency, both in the information tasks, as in the protection tasks, as in the sanctions tasks – that, for example, the inspections we are now doing at the airports, etc. – has never been encouraged. If you ask me exactly what I think? "We have always defended an innovative, inclusive, sustainable and world-open economy – open to the world – and therefore against any kind of boycott. I say it again: "It would be against any kind of boycott. And why? So, look, because, in the value chain of a company there are a number of subcontractors, suppliers; it is very difficult to determine today whether or not a company uses the services of a certain type of enterprise. Therefore, when we are speaking in favour of an open economy we are implicitly saying that we are against any type of rebreed, because it may well be – and in the opposite direction – that companies we consider to have locals from other nationalities, from other regions, and in the opposite direction. Therefore, I repeat again: supporters of an inclusive, innovative, sustainable and world-wide economy; no boycott. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about respect for diversity in the classrooms]] [[310-00197/12]] The next question is about respect for diversity in the classroom and the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sonia Sierra. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.18.0	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Mr. Counselor. Last week a minor was allegedly assaulted by her teacher and shortly after leaving school she had to go to the emergency room and then left with a medical part of the injuries that later appeared before the Mossos to file a complaint. The Department of Education commissioned an investigation from the territorial services and this investigation concludes that there has been no conclusive evidence of physical abuse. I believe that we will all agree that preserving the physical integrity of minors is fundamental. So, if we take into account that there is a medical part of injuries, that there is a complaint to the Mosses and that you say that the teacher has not been, then, who has it been? Who is the suspect of having caused you those injuries that consist of the medical part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.19.0	To answer the word, the education advisor, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.20.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., Mrs Sierra, the ‘medical part, which you say, if you have read it. In fact, in two different ways, for the networks, which you have circulated, you and all the media around you control, and in the two medical parts – one of which was false and one of which was real – do not consist of these injuries that you say. In any case, what we did was we commissioned a series of reports, which we were in forty-four hours, and from which we said that there was no such thing as aggression. We also said – and I told him yesterday, to you, because we were on the committee for quite a few hours discussing issues like this – that if you had any other information or documentation from which it was now official, you could transmit it, because another thing that you said is not correct is that we have nothing, but we have opened an expedient. If you have information that we don't have and you have a medical third party that we haven't seen, it'll get us there. But while I don't accuse you of falsehood, you don't judge and you don't condemn. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.21.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.22.0	Thank you. It would take twice as much time to deny all the lies you just said about things I haven't said. And of course we didn't circulate any kind of medical part. That means he watches his words very closely because he's falsely accusing. And go ahead with my presumption of innocence, and hence the kind of words I have used. But the truth is, there are things here that draw a lot of attention. Who is at the forefront of this investigation? A Republican Left activist and separatist. And do you know what one of your first decisions was at the head of those territorial services? Fill those with yellow ties. Do you think anyone can report indoctrination cases to a building full of yellow ties? And another thing that this report says is that there has been no ideological implication of any kind. Do you really believe that a teacher breaks a Spanish flag, sends the girl to the hallway and there is no ideological motivation here? Did he break the rest of the drawings of the other children and also send them all into the hallway? Look, the truth is, it's hard to believe in the neutrality of an investigation, of a report, of a file from territorial services full of yellow bonds. And I already know that you believe that it is the highest educational authority in Catalonia, but fortunately that is not so, because above you are the laws and justice, those laws and that justice that serve precisely to protect the weakest of the bad rulers. We trust that justice will be done, and we trust that the students will finally be protected, but not by you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.23.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.24.0	...that we know he's incapable, but here's Citizens to... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.25.0	To answer the word again the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.26.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, your fans of justice, your convictions, your checks, your photos, your names. Do you remember when a congressman for Madrid published the photo of the new teachers of Sant Andreu de la Barca? Remember when he published the photo, published the names and accused them of some things to six of which justice has exonerated and three will soon do so? Don't judge, don't condemn, leave the school alone. And they don't say lies. Who you say and who you have just lost has not made the report or is who will make the instruction of the open consignment. And, besides, this teacher intervened on three students, on three front pages of a job that didn't fit... we don't think the intervention was correct, but it's not ideological. Not everyone is like you, at school people are free – not everyone, like you. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.27.0	Thanks, counselor, time's up. [[Ask the government about the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[310-00198/12]] The next question is about the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and the formula, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.28.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, today a week ago you and your president attended the act of delivering diplomas to the new promotion of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. A very long day, without clouds, but, as always with you, with lights and shadows. Counselor, the formation of the members of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, including the undeniable fact that our democratic order – the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy – is the real guarantee of being able to fully enjoy civil and democratic freedoms?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.29.0	To answer the question you have the word the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.30.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. MP, obviously, squad movements in the basic police training course at the Institute of Public Security are formed with all the legal and police requirements that surround them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.31.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.32.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I have heard myself say many times: police action in accordance with democratic order is essential to protect the free exercise of rights and freedoms. The first obligation of any public servant, of any public servant, is to respect scrupulously the democratic order: the Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy and the laws governing the social and democratic state of right that we enjoy. This only legitimizes public servers and state institutions, inclusive Generality. And that's why I asked him the specific question about the formation that our police officers have. Because in the act of delivering diplomas, June 19th, the president replayed the words in his speech. As always, when I said one thing I wanted to say another. Because when you say or speak of civil liberties, you mean disobedience and rule outside the law. Or when they talk about democracy, they mean independence and democracy. It's been a long time since they've given us the steroids with so clever "we'll do it again. What do you mean by that, counselor? Another time they'll put the Mosses back between the spade and the game? Will the institutions of the Generality be placed on the sidelines of the law another time? Are we going to see a new attempt to get the police to play the democratic law? Because it's you who did it, and now they're telling us to do it again. What are you gonna do, counselor? Will they continue to play with the future of millions of Catalans? Do you believe, as the Director General of the Police said, that the legitimacy of the Squad's Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra came from its link with the Government? Because it must be made very clear: the legitimacy of the Squadron's Cos de Mossos comes from the constitutional democratic and statutory framework. If you don't think so, maybe you'll put the Mosses back between the span and the wall, maybe you'll follow the passes of your predecessor. I sincerely hope it's not like that. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.33.0	To answer again, you have the word, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.34.0	Thank you, President. In fact, starting the plenary is a threat that you tank in prison isn't nice, congressman, isn't it nice people, huh? I'm commenting on it because I know that, because of the relationship I can have with you as a company or as a politician, so it's not nice people to threaten you to be sent to prison. Look, if you listened... that wasn't there – I don't think there was, huh? On the day of the institute? – It wasn't there; other Members were there, you weren't. Okay. So, he read it somewhere or he saw it somewhere. If you've heard the president, the president, how deeply democrat it is... - and I share his opinion, huh? – power, sovereignty, always, because we are a democratic country. You may have devised another system of democracy in which power over others. We, this Government, believe that power alone and exclusively over citizenship, and that we are its representatives – its representatives. So, if the president says it's the citizenry that runs, that rules, it's because he believes it deeply and because he says it's a convinced democracy, no, in this case, depending on your question, like you. Therefore, reflect on whether you are well-conceived as to who collects sovereignty, because we are clear that it is upon the people. Moreover, he said: "When the president says this, he means others. Listen to me, so, look, you must be very skilled. I recommend you go to these private televisions that answer phones on the night and tell people the future, huh? I recommend this work, which will certainly do better, because it interprets things very well interpreted; now, yes, in its own way, not in the real way, eh? Because if you interpret things..., how do you interpret, for example, a case that happened to the State's security forces and bodies, which was named "the State's sewers?" Because I didn't hear you criticise him. That's right, they say every day that the Catalan police are politicized, but they never talk about the locksmiths or the sewers of the state; they never talk about that, because they don't care. Or, for example, they don't speak of the judicial failure that they had in their bones and security forces on October 1, that we all know clearly what the interlocutory was, and that the only ones that failed to do it were the state's security and security forces.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.35.0	Counselor, time is up, thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the processing of the People Service Contract Law Project]] [[310-00190/12]] The next question is about the processing of the draft law on service contracts for persons, formulated, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, for the deputy Mrs Alicia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.36.0	Good morning, President; thank you. Vice President Aragonès, from the beginning of the process of this law of service contracts to people there has been criticism from parliamentary groups, but also from the academic world, social entities, health, employers, organizations, and even a very critical report from the Catalan Competition Agency. They've gotten up even more often. You're not aware, because you're summoning some entities to your department to copy your opinion. And we'd like to know what the will is, so let's face it, the situation we're in right now, in relation to the parliamentary handling of this law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.37.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and Hisenda Pere Aragonès has the word, when applicable.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.38.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Member, this government has done its job, in fact, a year ago we brought this bill to Parliament, and now it is in the hands of the parliamentary groups its processing. We are not the legislative power, the legislative power is you and they are the ones who are close to deciding; but, if you ask the government's opinion, this is a necessary bill because the social policies of this country are doing, in part with public contract, it has to take precedence over the quality of the price, because if we don't already know who is left with the home care services and who is left out, and that we can apply social responsibility and have more control over the subcontracting and that makes it possible for this bill to be at its hands and from the government, so far as it can reach a maximum of agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.39.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.40.0	So, Mr. Aragones, why are you summoning the entities to the department? But, look, we also think it's a necessary law, it's so necessary that the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units presented seventy reviews to improve this law. It's a law that we don't like as designed, as many entities have said, but we want to improve it. We believe that it is necessary, as you quite rightly said, other groups that do not believe in it have not done so much work and are oblivious that, precisely, a legislative chamber one of its functions is to legislate. And we don't like it for two reasons, because we think it doesn't guarantee what you say and what the directive marks, that it's guaranteeing quality over price and more in people's services, where we value the expert, knowledge, thanks – important when we're dealing with groups of vulnerability. And then another element that you didn't say, transparency, equal treatment, competition, that too can guarantee it. We believe that this law does not guarantee these two principles which the directive sets out for us and therefore we believe that it can be improved. And the other is that the provision of public services can be done from various angles, one with indirect management through the contract and the other through the concertation. We have a large part of the "what we have at these times, Mr. Aragones, is because you have not presented a law of concertation. Don't say that you a year ago presented a law of contracts – yes, very well – and the law of concertation where are you? Because if we have clearly established what are the services that are concerted, with a..., plus the wealth that Catalonia has in the field of the third sector that manages social and health services, we may not find ourselves in this difficulty, but you have passed on to the legislature a problem of yours, of your government, which does not make a law of concertation because, I understand, I suppose – I ask you – if it is that you have difficulties in the government, if it is that Together for Catalonia and the Republican Left do not think the same about this law of concertation. I'd like to ask him if they'd approve of the SCP message or if the groups that support the government approve of the SCP message that calls for a concertation law in the proper twelve_months, because it's also dealt with that. If you had done your job, which is what you don't do in so many areas, and have presented yourself in parallel with the contract law, the law of concertation would not have the problems with which you are today and which is found to be the legislative power, yes, the question, with an ill-designed law and with many shortcomings. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.41.0	To answer the Vice President's words again, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.42.0	Thank you very much, President. The law of concertation is working with the sector and is working from the government and, therefore, when there is a sufficient level of consensus we will bring it to this Parliament; as we have done with this bill, up to four versions. You can look at the background to the bill: a public hearing, there was a participatory process; there were parliamentary participations from the entities, and you were able to submit papers. I would like to remind you that a parliamentary group presented a report to the totality – a parliamentary group. Some of the entities that today raise their voices, when they are given the opportunity to participate in public hearings, zero proposals; therefore, I believe that we also need to be rigorous. And I want to take advantage of the opportunity to make a few things clear. First of all, this law doesn't privatize. Article 3.2 of the project: "Excludes from the scope of application of this law the performance of the services in direct management, which the Administration does, excluded from the scope of management of this law. This law, moreover, establishes the social responsibility of tenderers, such as, for example, the better working conditions respect the appropriate collection – how many times in this Parliament does it require us to take advantage of public contracts to improve what they establish the agreed collections? –; measures of environmental responsibility, labour integration of persons with disabilities; prohibition of financial operations in tax havens – how many times has this Parliament asked us, that bidders sign the United Nations Global Compact of Measures to Fight Corruption? Therefore, it is an innovative law project, a law project that, moreover, controls the subcontracting that can be produced and establishes the limit and rescue capacity of these contracts that are incorrectly exercised.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.43.0	Vice President, time is up, thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about climate policies]] [[310-00191/12]] The next question is about climate policies, and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.44.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the importance of the effects of climate change and its impact makes it, from our point of view, that the government makes the ecological transition one of its key strategies. The government has spoken to us about climate emergency, and even made a statement, but beyond these words we see no concrete policies or presuppositional resources like this except for those coming from Spain and Europe. Can I explain the priorities?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.45.0	To answer the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.46.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Mr. Deputy, effectively, the Government has made the declaration of climate emergence and will develop everything that was stipulated at its time in the law of climate change, pioneer, and now with this declaration with concrete measures. In fact, it has already started from the Department of Enterprise or the Department of Economics to develop a whole series of measures, review them and speed them up so as to give concrete expression to this declaration of emergence. You talked about resources. The resources are close to the Government of the Generality, but they should not come more. They should, for example, arrive those that the Government of the State collects through 0.7 and not territoriality, or those that the Government of the State collects from the carbon sub-upstream and not only does not use in climate policies, but also territoriality. Therefore, I ask you, which is part of a political group that also governs the State, to help us to have the Ministry of Ecological Transition provide the necessary resources to develop good climate policies in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.47.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.48.0	Miri, counselor, placing the economic transition as the central strategy of the Government is key to modernizing the political, social and economic life of the country, and we do not see that it is his priority, despite his words of the day. For example – we haven't talked about it yet – the contamination of the air. Responsible for 133 deaths every thousand years in our country. Here it is almost impossible not to be exposed to environmental contamination. We have an excessive fleet of vehicles, which generates a lot of pollution; its obligation is to take measures to avoid levels of environmental pollution, measures for sustainable mobility, more and better public transport and fewer polluting vehicles on the road, such as in maritime and air transport. More space for people and less space for bad smoke. And you don't have a clear leadership in this camp. And speaking of greenhouse gas emissions, we're also suspeneming, counselor. While Europe has reduced a 22,4_per_cent on the base scenario of the year 1990, in Catalonia we have increased them by 15,1_per_cent. Many voluntary agreements and little efficiency, as you can appreciate. And that goes against the competitiveness of the Catalan economy. And if we're talking about sustainable model change, we need to talk about energy transition, and energy transition isn't done for a spontaneous generation. You haven't done anything either. We're at the bottom. In these moments, of the 8,229 megawatts in development in Spain, only 134 are in Catalonia, a 1.63_percent of the total. And out of 5,123 megawatts of public information, do you know how many of them are in Catalonia? Zero. And if we're talking about photovoltaics, we've only installed the last year 8 megawatts. And if 50 per cent of the electricity that is generated is to be renewable from now on, then let me show you my scepticism at the rate we are going. You're a government used to making statements, but that's not enough. Governor, Mr. Counselor; they govern, which is not what they are doing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.49.0	Congressman... thank you. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.50.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, MPs, I agree with you that the declaration of emergency and climate action must focus the government's action. And that's our intention. In fact, there is an interdepartmental commission because each of the departments contributes to this fight against climate change, so all the measures that can be taken. We need to incorporate the climate vector into the whole assessment of plans, programs, but not only of infrastructure policies or mobility policies, but of all sectoral policies. Therefore, departments that sometimes a priori do not seem to have an impact on climate change. You talked about air quality. Know that we have led since the Air Quality Table, for example, to establish a low-emission zone, which will be mandatory from the '1 of generation of 2020, of the coming year. This, that other cities are disproving, and that I am sorry, and that even the European Union, therefore, has made a warning, we have developed it from the agreement between the Government of the Generality and the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, joints of the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, and will be binding. Know that these days we are, precisely, in advance of environmental events, and, therefore, we are much in the world, and leading. And energy transition? Absolutely okay. And in order to encourage it, we are repealing the decree limiting the installation of photovoltaic parks, because we need to speed up everything that is the establishment of urban and environmental measures that allows us to speed up much the deployment of photovoltaic parks. If the countries of the European Union have been able to reduce by a percentage higher than ours...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.51.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the provision of quality public services]] [[310-00195/12]] The next question is about the provision of quality public services. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.52.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. Vice President, you know that Republicans and Republicans have as their goal to improve people's lives, to take them, to feel free to sort out those services..., with full freedom, and to sort out those services that go much better with their pace of life. Republicans and Republicans defend social justice. In fact, we fight inequality. Fighting me is that public services are of quality, it's the essential objective, because it's the first tool we have to fight these inequalities. Republicans and Republicans do not only fight inequality, but we also seek with much incision the empowerment of the citizenry for as long as we see each other, have the right conditions to live there. From his surroundings and from his own home. Therefore, public services must be of the highest quality, because they are the essential tool for determining the breakdown of these inequalities. It is in this sense that, for us, the guarantee of social cohesion and equity are the public services, in that they are the main indicator. Public services which, in our country, from any Administration, are provided directly or indirectly. It is obvious that we defend it directly from public services, but it is also evident that not all administrations have the capacity to do so. Therefore, before indirect management, we must guarantee and equip tools so that public services are of the highest quality, and so as to control this quality always, always, always, always before the price. So, Vice President, to guarantee this quality, what does the government do?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.53.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.54.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. MP, the Generalitat de Catalunya manages three of the four friends of the state to bless our country: salvation, teaching and social protection. The area of pensions, which is managed by the State, is missing. Therefore, we have a great responsibility, and that is why we demand that all the resources generated by the workers of Catalonia and which are carried out in the form of taxes, therefore, can be managed, precisely, in favour of this state of welfare in Catalonia and on behalf of the same Generality of Catalonia. That's why we've been working on Catalonia's general assumptions. We have put forward a proposal in this Parliament, we have shared it with parliamentary groups and we will continue to work with consensus so that it is possible to approve these assumptions that recover expenditure in health, education, social care, security and emergencies. And, obviously, as you say, public procurement policy is a tool for these quality public services, because it is obvious that not all of you serve by question of expertise, volume, scale of administration, can be provided directly. It can't all be done with public workers. Also because the State limits us the number of public workers we can hold and the percentage of increase, to us and to all the assemblies of the country. For this reason, gatherings of all political colors, therefore, mediating public contracting serve as home care, reading monitors, support in different areas of care to people... And what we have found is that multi-service companies linked to private companies, specialists in public works bidding, decide to compete in these public services, displacing third-sector entities, displacing cooperatives. Why? Because it was over, with the Law of State Contracts, the price for quality. And that's what we're going to reverse by exercising our sovereignty in this area. Therefore, prioritizing quality over price. Secondly, promoting the social responsibility of tenderers, with greater respect for the agreement; with equality plans; with a ban on transactions in tax havens, as I mentioned earlier; limitations on subcontracting, which is a source of job insecurity; direct control in the execution of the contract. Therefore, this is a government that is clear that the public contract must be in the service of social justice and we do not think of giving up this responsibility. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.55.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about occupied housing dislocation protocols]] [[310-00196/12]] The next question is about the occupied housing dislocation protocols, and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the MP Núria Picas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.56.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, the right of housing and the drama of denunciations are, unfortunately, a constant topical issue in our country. Obviously, there are multiple strategies to solve this endemic problem. The Government of the Generality is committed to making the right of housing an effective guarantee for the citizens of Catalonia; for example, the problems of the prices and of the contracts to date are on the table in this House. Although the government is making an important economic effort in social programs, unfortunately, this is not enough to avoid today a very high number of charges with court orders. Beyond the tasks of the police, which act, as has been manifested on different occasions, always under judicial order and in compliance with established and granted protocols, it is also certain that in the later years the revision of the denunciation protocol has been requested from different sectors, with the aim of being able to work with preventive measures from social services, with sufficient time to avoid critical cases with families of great vulnerability. This is why there is a growing social concern before the proliferation of cases of out-of-court relocations through companies contracted by some owners, in many cases real estate companies, theoretically for the exercise of mediation and counseling, but in the background they end up with denunciations by force and without judicial order. Cases of pressure, intimidation, threats and even attacks. It would be useful not only to avoid any type of relationship with the security features, obviously, but also to avoid any possible collaboration or collusion, and to establish the mechanisms of complaint and action that fail. All in all, from the Republican Left of Catalonia, the question we want to ask him is the following: what is the advice of the council before these cases of intimidating commands disguised as business? What concrete steps will be taken to avoid it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, the Inner Counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.58.0	Thank you, President. In fact, the finding you make in your question is that the system can improve, because it does not give solutions to vulnerable families that can be left without housing, and that is why the government is constantly working to find solutions. It is also true that this Parliament and this Government do not have every opportunity to face this challenge that we have as a country and as a society, I believe... that we manage to share it, and that I feel very imbued with seeking solutions to these challenges. As you said, for the laws approved in this Parliament, the Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron members are assigned to the Judicial Police Unit. In the case of the Mosses it's the whole thing, because we don't have a specific unit of judicial police. They depend functionally on the courts, the courts and the Ministry of Public Prosecutions in the exercise and the compliment of the functions entrusted to them. So again, I say that the moves do not disown anyone, they act by court order. And, therefore, in a given moment is the judicial criterion that decides whether to intervene, when to intervene, and who intervenes. No..., the Mosses do not have any type of connivance, nor will there be – connivance, nor will there be – with any company or with any sector or with any group that a judge does not reasonably determine that they are to act in that dislocation. The Mossos d'Esquadra is what they do to homogenize procedures, to work on the guidelines to be given by the instructor units, to facilitate interlocution before a possible conflict, and, obviously, mediation, which is the mark of Mossos d'Esquadra – mediation. And, in the event of any conflict, those who provoke it are identified, but in no case – in no case – is it done in a way that is not in accordance with the law or the court order. And, look, I've said it more than once, I'm going back to saying, this protocol, which I've pioneered, is the protocol for the execution of the launch orders to the judicial parties in Catalonia. I was a pioneer. So, a few... I'm sure there are people who have a lot of sensitivities, but I've proved it, to look for solutions for families who suffer from maladministration. But don't blame the police for which it is a criterion or a judicial decision. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.59.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the balance of Sant Joan's rivet]] [[310-00193/12]] The next question is about the balance of the Sant Joan rivet, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.60.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, honourable counselor, the arrival of the summer is marked by the Catalan Countries for the celebration of the night of Saint Joan, a very new night in which tradition is swept with the present, and fire and gunpowder is mixed to forge the bad spirits and protect, with dance and music, the ones we believe. Fires and firecrackers welcome the summer solstice, as is tradition in the Mediterranean basin. Fire and gunpowder, however, are a danger in a warm season and each time drier in the face of global warming, aggravated by precipitation and low humidity that alter the environment. Fires and firecrackers are a potential danger that can cause forest and urban fires, and increase the number of emergencies to attend to. It is for this reason that we celebrate that the Government declared a few weeks ago the state of climate emergence, to combat climate change and adopt sustainable energy, economic and mobility models, and thus to be able to fulfill the threads that are already in the law against climate change, that I will not be reminded that it was incomprehensiblely suspected by the Constitutional Court. Sant Joan's night is a party night, but it's also one of the most dangerous and most incident nights, together with Cap d'Anny's night. It is even more so if, as the Interior Department warned us, the celebration coincides with a week-end at the door of an announced heat wave. Anticipated knowledge is the foundation of all prevention policy. Natural elements such as fire and heat are unfortunately not the only dangers of a night's sleep that should be a celebration and celebration for everyone; there are no others that affect human rights. Every year we have to report and condemn cases of harassment and abuse suffered by women; there have been three reports of sexual assaults, due from which against children under 18. It is for this reason that we celebrate the inn in March, a few months ago, of the Protocol against Sexual Violence in the middle of the night. What is the value of you, honourable counselor, of the arrangement that was prepared for the night of St. Joan and what is the balance that has been made since the incident department related to the setback? Secondly, we would like to know how the Department of the Interior prepares the threat posed by the hot-aired announcement, which adds to the persistent lack of rain and low humidity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.61.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, the Inner Counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.62.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Congresswoman – I turn around, but it will be complex. It's true, we talked about how it could be the most dangerous week-end of the year. We were going to announce it. And, in fact, there were three elements, which were: the head of the long week, a head of the long summer week; an increase, a forecast of rising temperatures, low humidity and strong winds, and the lap of Sant Joan and all that involves the lap of Sant Joan. That's why we announced and prevented the citizenry. The results, in substance, were positive, they were satisfactory, but not at all. I'll explain. For example, in the field of transit, last year we had a death on Sant Joan's lap; this year, we didn't have a clue. In the case of tricks at 112, we have downloaded a 4_per_cent; therefore, there have been fewer tricks, so we have to assume that there have been fewer incidents. It activated twice as many municipal plans, it activated twice as many local civil protection associations. In the case of Mossos d'Esquadra, there were 2,663 readings controls of alcoholemia, of which 179 gave administrative positives, 18 penal positives; 37 readings of drug use, of which 27 gave positives. Capas: these could be normal results or we could say satisfactory, because, so, they could donate..., well, that's all. For example, in Bombers camp, there was a 35_per_cent more exits to Sant Joan's lap than the previous year: it went from 862 to 1,175. Therefore, it made it clear that the announcement we made of possibly the most dangerous week-end of the year, therefore, was uncertain – it was uncertain. And we had complaints of sexual assaults, including two minor assaults; there was one the day in advance of Badalona, and then they also filed a complaint with us. I take advantage of the fact that we have been working all this week on the rock board, that today we have the register here in Parliament, that we are demanding the past diverging that this – we have presented it today–, and in view of the week we have to talk about an extreme situation, a heat wave, as we all know, which is combined with the extreme water of forests, which tomorrow is Sant Pere's wake, and therefore we are again holding gunpowder and again holding firecrackers. We've activated the Procicate in the phase of alerting. We have activated in the pre-alert phase the Info, but [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] Tell him we've had...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.63.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.64.0	...416 last-minute fires... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.65.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the evolution of public transport data]] [[310-00194/12]] The next question is about the evolution of public transport data, and the formula, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.66.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counsellor Calvet, good morning. Prat de la Riba was proposed in year 14 that no people were missing from his school, his library, his telephone or his road. The 14th year in Catalonia we went with cars and washed with air. It's been a long time. In Catalonia of 32, that of President Macià, already began to see some cars. Here, in the sixties, the six-cents popularized the automobile between middle classes, and the cities changed; the cities changed because they changed the mobility. From the 14th until today we have experienced enormous transformations in transport and also in force, in the capital and in Barcelona understood as a great pole of attraction. Today Barcelona is a great magnet, and in Catalonia we no longer go with a car and we don't go with a free ride. Today's challenges are no longer the telephone, we have said many times, but they are, for example, the optical fiber, as we always say, of Councillor Puignero, who brings us to the world, or the public transport network of the country, which also has to get us to the other side, and especially public transport to the area of Barcelona, where at the end of the year there are moving and moving millions of people. Today we cannot imagine a Catalonia that is not transformative infrastructures; today, counselor, we cannot imagine a Catalonia that does not play the card of the avant-garde, also in transport. In short, we have come to transform – we have said it many times – and we cannot afford a Catalonia that does not have the best public transport, because this implies efficiency, this implies less contamination, quality of life and above all opportunities. Every public transport title, every ticket, every T-10 is an opportunity for the people of this country. That is why we ask him: on the margins of the great proclamations, which are there, and of the speech of the permanent complaint, which is, that there are some, that the fan, on the margins of all this, with hands, who is the evolution of the use of public transport to Catalonia, and, more concretely, counselor, who is the evolution to the metropolitan area, where the ATM does the management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word now the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.68.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., Mr. MP, thank you very much for your question. A road kilometre opens the people's door on the side, but an optical fiber kilometre opens the world's door, huh? , and, therefore, very much to take into account the reflection it makes to start your question. In any case, you asked me about public transportation data to the metropolitan area, and I have to tell you that the data is good, the data show a vigorous growth rate back to the year. Focusing on xifres, if we compare the first months of 2018 with the first months of 2019, the growth is 5.17_per_cent, a significant xifra, 5.17 for the integrated titles– you asked me for the T-10, it's an integrated title –, and 2.49 for the non-integrated titles. If we weigh the weight of the integrated titles with respect to the non-integrated titles, we would have to have the overall system growth of 4 and a half percent. Therefore, I insist, a vigorous rhythm of growth, very consistent, a rhythm that has been going on for years and that has, in fact, reached 1,000_million journeys, this 2018. We have repeated this on various occasions, because it is a xifra that we do not expect to arrive until 2020, and when we change we have arrived two years before. Our intention is to reach 1,500_million journeys, and that, therefore, involves many folds; among others, to have more and better infrastructure, also to Rodalies, which is the great sacre of the public transport system. In any case, this growth is also explained – you were talking about the T-10 – for the implementation of the metro fare, this flat rate in the metropolitan area that, while this will be assessed next year, when we tank the 2019 rates, the entry into operation of this rate has driven the use of public transport to a certain extent. We see this because there are fewer T-10s than two areas coming or by other factors, but we will assess it calmly next year. The metropolitan flat rate has meant an important increase in the use of public transport, which is basic: air quality, climate change, public transport; more and better public transport, better mobility. If we really believe in the political objectives of climate change, and we believe in it, of the quality of the urban area, of better-designed cities, of cities that under the urban agenda criteria also provide us with better mobility, we must continue to bet on public transport. As we believe, these objectives, public transport will maintain the priority that corresponds to it as the social policy that it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.69.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the guarantee of the non-compliance with public money of the risk of speculative urban operations]] [[317-00112/12]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. And the first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, the deputy lady Natialia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.70.0	Good morning, all of you. Good morning, President. We haven't talked about this in this control session. Last week we had news about the old ghost of Eurovegas, Barcelona World, Hard Rock Cafe or..., well, as I say. In order to try to deepen a little more in the answer that already confirms to us that the Department of Territories..., well, that, through the Incasól, the Government has all the intention to buy some toxic lands of the « Caixa, we ask the President of the Generality if that is so, if he will buy these toxic lands, these unproductive benefits of the « Caixa. Therefore, if you confirm a covert bank rescue operation at CaixaBank. And if that is so, if this purchase of land is confirmed..., that, certainly, Mr. Damià Calvet, he denied one and another time, and here we have it, at the press writing..., that the press lies..., denied that the government and the Incassin of intermediaries in the purchase, that would only act as manager until the PDU is approved. President, can you state that you will not take the risk of speculative urban operations with public money? I, if that's the case, how do you plan to make sure?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.71.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the paragraph.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.72.0	Yeah. The answer is obviously. But what I want to confirm from the outset is the report prepared for the University of Rovira and Virgili that calculates that only during the construction of the hotel complex is expected to generate a direct and indirect impact to Catalonia of more than 1,500_million euros and twelve_ thousand places of work– twelve_ thousand places of work. Then comes the exploitation phase, at Camp Tarragona, which will be a turning point for the brand, also for the importance it has at these times a project like this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.73.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.74.0	President, you did not answer the question: can you say that public money will not take the risk of speculative urban operations? On the other hand, we could also ask him: "If the Box has not developed the general interest, this general interest that you were putting on the table, of some fictitious places of work that they do is to consolidate the job precariousness of thousands of workers, that today they do not exist, I insist, we could ask ourselves if it would not be just, if by twenty years the Box did not develop the general interest, if it would not be just and lawful to apply the right of return. On the other hand, we, while there's this kind of speculation, wouldn't agree with this project. We believe, President, clearly that it is necessary to avoid the execution of the land purchase option for Incasòl. We think we need to guarantee quality jobs. And above all we believe that it is necessary to reverse the tax reduction to the planned game of 55_per_cent. Is this the model of a country that wants, President, a country that enhances the game as a trading tool, a country that enhances job insecurity, a country that strengthens more and more in an area that is the second chemical polygon of southern Europe the concentration of population? Between the Aragonese law, the urban speculation and the smoke of the housing decree is nothing left to self-determine.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.75.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.76.0	Is that his country model, President?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.77.0	To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.78.0	Yeah. Member of the Commission. - I think I have made it clear that I am going to answer it with 'obviously'. And I say it, I confirm it: not a public euro in this operation. And, on the other hand, I think that – and here it will allow me... – we are contradicting you and us: for us this is a strategic project, it is a project that has value and it is a project that comes back to us if we did well or didn't do it when we pulled the PortAventura project forward. And that's why I asked you, did we do well or didn't we do well when we pulled the PortAventura project? This is a strategic project, Europe's first comprehensive tourist complex, in Vila-seca and Salou, approved for a 2014 law, approved for a board and with a resolution of a competition that took place on May 25, 2018. I would like to point out again the figures we are playing on this project, both of the reversal, of the direct impact it has, of the 1,559_million euros, and above all of the twelve_ thousand places of work that this represents. And it represents a tourism of quality – it represents a tourism of quality – which we also need. Because I want a country that is a living country; I want a country that is alive, I want a country that flows from the territory, I want to go to the Lands of the Ebro, I want to go to the Camp of Tarragona, I want to go to the High Land or the Pallars, or to the Bages, or to the Bergedà, people can earn their lives from the territory, and I want to be a balanced and sustainable country, and with scrupulous respect for the environment. This is the country I want. And that goes on to create opportunities in the territory. And this is a great opportunity for us to go back, which we want to do with scrupulous respect and which is a priority for us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.79.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the social projects that could be hard to finish with public money for the purchase of land from CaixaBank]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom, the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.80.0	Yeah, good morning to everyone and everyone. President, we're still on the subject. Do you know everything that can be done with 120_million euros? I ask why the generality will buy the land in public money that is in the hands of "the Hard Rock Complex Box". So, what does this public money submission look like to you for private interests?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.81.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.82.0	I think the counselor has answered, I just answered now: not a public euro. So much so that I know what it is can do with 120_million euros! My mother, if I know. I know why precisely it costs us that the State completes with all the debts it has, we cost you that you do not see the importance it has for this country to approve the assumption of the Government of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]] And as long as I know what 120_millions means.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.83.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.84.0	Yes, President, who will take the risk, then? We have been doing so for months, saying that the government does not govern, that it has experienced improvisation, that it always reacts late and poorly, that the government Torra-Aragonès, that the government of Esquerra Republicana and Junts for Catalonia does not agree practically on anything to bring forward any proposal, but today we have an exception. And the exception is just this, friend capitalism, buy some land that's in the hands of "the Box for the Hard Rock Complex." And, in addition, this situation is still dramatic when we know that the Generalitat is funded and that it has been unable to bring forward assumptions. We ask you, please, that these money instead of going to a casino, as long as they worry about the right to housing, is to buy land for public housing. That's what we're asking. And I'd also like to do a translation exercise that represents 120_million euros. With 120_million euros, the Generality could contract more than two_ thousand health professionals for primary care; or it could freeze public transport charges and even lower prices; or the Generality could regain responsibility for funding the schools in Bressol; it could set the best level against male violence; the Generality could double the aid to the loguer; but it could also multiply the investment in childhood policies by seven; with 120_million euros, we could set up more than five_ thousand new places of residence, when we know that there are close to twenty_ thousand people in a list of hope, and we could also lower, and beyond, university taxes. President, we ask you to rectify and paralyze this operation of shame. It is beneficial for a few pockets but it is ruinous for the social majority of Catalonia. And with these 120_million euros, we tell them, they do the favor of guaranteeing the right to housing, as long as they worry. And please don't apologize and stop this operation, because in the end what we're seeing is that its model is to make Catalonia a country of casinos and not a social republic. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the paragraph again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.86.0	I don't know how to repeat what we've already done: not a public euro. The cost of 120_millions will take over Hard Rock Cafe. And the truth is, if we're gonna start talking about friend capitalism, then let's talk about it, huh? Jo, allow me, therefore, to remind you that your mayor of Barcelona is precisely the mayor – precisely – thanks to the capitalism of friends [[applause]] – thanks to the capitalism of friends. Or who was financing Mr. Manuel Valls, but one of the groups back, from the foundations back from real estate? Therefore, look, if I may, there is also an end to one, let's say, age of innocence. Let's teach the righteous. And on this subject, on the theme of the Hard Rock Cafe, I again pose..., I repeat to him another time: not a public_euro; the cost assumes Hard Rock Cafe. Twelve thousand places of work– twelve thousand places of work. You don't think Tarragona Camp deserves this opportunity? Dozen thousand places of work, with reports from the University of Rovira and Virgili in favor, with a large part of the population... it cost us, huh? because it has been an initiative for years, which Vice President Junqueras actually presented, which we have managed to reach an important consensus in the area. I demand that we work for this consensus and ask for all the explanations they want. We have explained to them, I think, quite simply that this operation is not supposed to be publicly compromised by the Generality. In change, the indirect benefits, the direct benefits to make this country alive, I repeat – and which I mentioned earlier to the company of the CUP – seem essential to me. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.87.0	The next question... [[Question to the President of the Generality on the non-acceptance of the people's legislative initiative of the bill approving the declaration of independence and on the need for and commitment to act within the law]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.88.0	Thank you, President. Many honourable President of the Generality, what opinion do you deserve from the fact that the Bureau of Parliament decided yesterday not to accept to delay the popular legislative initiative for which the declaration of independence is intended to be approved?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.89.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.90.0	Look, we're the government and Parliament is the legislative power. And, therefore, each one takes the decisions he thinks he must make.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.91.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.92.0	President, I guess, then, that sounds good to him and I'm glad. But yesterday this decision showed a division between the two groups that support the government. And, from our point of view, it seems quite difficult to ensure a government action, a coherent political action when there is such an important discrepancy on such a relevant issue. The report of the major Iletrat was unequivocal, it could not be admitted to transport that ILP. And, President, from our point of view, perhaps you can be very clear about respect, you cannot agree that you are outside the law. Finally, and I have mentioned on other occasions, a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights reminds us that the judgments of the constitutional courts are final and compulsory compliments, reminds us that when a public authority refuses to complete a ruling of the Constitutional Court it is violating the principles of the state of law, the separation of powers and the loyal cooperation between state bodies. President, from our point of view, there is no way out of the law. I've said it over and over again. Or, better said, maybe there's a way, but it leads to disaster. The deception, or self-deception, can generate among other evils a great frustration and our collective obligation as deputies and deputies is to avoid it. And, therefore, they ask him that he is committed on his own behalf and that of his government to always act in the framework of the law, because we believe that this is the only way to serve the interests of the Catalan society in its conjunction. I already know that at these times one of the most repeated instructions is this" we will do it again. They do what they have for good, but they always do it within the law, with full respect for all people and for all ideas, with full respect for the institutions, with full respect for the assembly of the people of Catalonia, to which they must serve. They do the favor of governing and, moreover, of adhering to a legality, which we can effectively change if we use the mechanisms and the majorities necessary to do so. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.93.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.94.0	Yes, thank you. I in these last weeks discovered in a prose of exile of the poet Josep Carner a phrase that I like very much and that I repeat, that came to say that the first republican institution is the popular will. Also, in some way, Councilman Buch was going through this line. That is to say, we... this is a government that respects the popular will, that for us this is the way to go, that I express at every moment the people of Catalonia. And the people of Catalonia in these last three elections have expressed themselves in a strong way. And do you know what happened to the deputies or MEPs chosen for the people of Catalonia? They're suspicious. And who are they suspected of? So in the Congress and in the Senate for two – thanks to God – Catalans, who were supposed to have to veto their rights. We believe that the will of the people of Catalonia must be scrupulously respected – scrupulously – at every moment, and that the vision must always be given to the citizenry and followed by it. That's the only limit we're marking. And what we'd like to know is what limit is the government of the state's mark, or if you have any, of course. Because it turns out that to bring the prisoners to Catalonia we're two days late. Two nits had to pass the political prisoners to arrive in Catalonia, which is a monumental indecency. One more; one more humiliation. And we... it's time to know what the Spanish government wants for Catalonia, what it wants, what the proposal is – what the proposal is. There was no way, we didn't know. Unfortunately, during all these months of the Sánchez government we haven't known, and that's what – hey, Constable Artadi? – We were negotiating so we could know what the Spanish Government's proposal was. So let it be a proposal that respects the will of Catalans. I demand this, that the Government of the State always respect the will of the citizenry, of the Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.95.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on measures to address climate change]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.96.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President. These days it has raised the temperature in Parliament, as is often the case, but it has also run away from the country. We're in the middle of heat. They'll be, they say, maybe the highest temperatures of 2019 and we're in June. And today maybe there's still no exception, but it's going to become normal if we don't roll around and we're all done at once. As an example, today at seven in the morning we had twenty-and-four degrees in Francolí – at seven in the morning. And it's up to us to say things by name: the situation is climate-emergency, it's a crisis, it's a col·lapse, there's no excuse that it's worth any more time or subterfuge. We can't allow our average temperature to rise, obstinately after two years, to be the minimum temperature of our children tomorrow. We can't afford it. And, therefore, no longer enough, with institutional statements. It plays paradigm shift, plays model change and plays do-it now. That the economy is not just numbers, but that it complements socially and also with the environment; that mobility is shared, that it is public and that it is carbon-free, and the energy 100_per_cent democratic and 100_per_cent renewable, decentralized. We need to put the environmental policies in the centre, because we want a country of Groc Republic color, a country that can only be lilac color, but it has to be assumed once and for all that this country also has to be green color. And we have to make rape rape with people. The Catalan Republic that we want, that we fight, that we defend, that we demand every day, all the way, social and green. The future in our home is the republic, right, but the future in the world is defeating this climate crisis. And we need to be because we don't want to see the Ebre Delta grow any more, we don't want to see the snowshoes retreat every day, we don't want to see more devastating fires. And they are examples looking only at the short distance. All the steps are welcome, but we can't afford to be late. We need to think big and do it now. Let us be admirable in other European countries that do very well. Denmark triples in renewables, we're at the calfs, and we can't afford to stay at the cua. We want to look north and compare ourselves to the better, because that's all the Republic understands. I need it for everyone's future. President, how will the government concretely fight to halt the climate emergency?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.97.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.98.0	Yes, thank you, Congressman. And I'm glad that this topic wanders out periodically in this Parliament. I think it's one of the great country issues. I hope that on this subject there is a great consensus not only in society, but also in Parliament. Therefore, in this sense I manifest my total predisposition with all the groups in the chamber, if I may, to have a deep debate on this issue and to reach a great consensus, because here we are actually playing the country that we would leave to our children. I would like to put forward some concrete measures in which the Government is working, because this Government, which feels succeeded by the government of President Puigdemont, therefore, and therefore when the Climate Change Law was approved..., we have already begun to deploy the Climate Change Law. We will properly process the decree for establishing the composition and the operating regime of the Interdepartmental Commission on Climate Change and the functioning of the Climate Fund, as well as the functioning of the Social Table on Climate Change. I think they're good instruments because this debate is already vaguely produced. Through environmental taxes as well – I think there is also a good task here – commercial aviation, radio-toxic elements, already existing taxes, or carbon dioxide emissions from mechanical traction vehicles, which knows that it is in processing. They say that – a theme so apparently simple but so important – the electric energy that Ferrocarrils uses from the Generalitat de Catalunya from 2019 onwards remains of renewable origin. Pushing aid for the purchase of net cars, as one of the measures that establishes the Pla de migliora de l'area de l'area à la conurbació de Barcelona. Or, as you know, it was one of the first measures taken by the Executive Board to implement the climate emergency declaration, which almost allocated €60 million to measures to address this global problem. Encouraging the investment of businesses and citizens in the economy and energy efficiency. Also reinforcing public transport and putting in march nine stations, like line 9 just a few weeks ago; also with the management that we make of public transport we can advance in this way. Or, as recently published, a few weeks ago, with two lines of help to fight climate change: one line addressed to local authorities and the other addressed to business associations to carry out studies in the field of carbon dioxide from products or services for the year 2019. We need to move forward and we need to do it all together. This country is playing its future here. And, therefore, I challenge and invite all the groups of this chamber to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.99.0	President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.100.0	...that they work folds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.101.0	...time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.102.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.103.0	Thank you. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the situation of the Catalan economy]] [[317-00114/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.104.0	Thank you very much, President. Most honorable President Torra, the Catalan economy grows an annual 2_per_cent in the first quarter of this 2019. The quarterly Catalan GDP is 0.6_per_cent, two tenths higher than the previous quarter. The job creation maintained an increase of 2.7_per_cent. The countdown fee is up to 11.6_per_cent. Industrial GDP is higher than 20_per_cent, already above the EU's target for 2020, with an increase of 6.1_per_cent in industrial employment, with an increase of 6.6 in high-tech employment. In Catalonia we have 618,366 companies, 1.5 more than in 2017; 71,623,000_euros of exports: eight years of consequent agreement, with an increase of 1.2_percent of exports, for example, in the high technological content; 8,642 foreign companies established in Catalonia; the best destination to invest in southern Europe in 2018 and 2019, according to the Financial Times. The foreign productive investment in Catalonia, in the first quarter of this 2019, is 704.5_million euros, twice the previous year. The foreign investment in Catalonia doubles the previous year; in the Spanish State, the foreign investment has dropped by 41_per_cent. Catalonia concentrates EUR 243 million in foreign investment in the industrial field. The main countries of this investment are the United States, Japan, France, Switzerland. Catalonia has the European capital of entrepreneurial talent, the business tax grows by 8.13_per_cent, higher than the European average. We could give many examples to the cities of Catalonia and the towns of Catalonia of these investments: Vilanova and the Geltrú or Sant Cugat, in Montornès del Vallès, in Valls, in Igualada, among others. Faced with this undeniable reality, unionism maintained – all: the People's Party and the Socialist Party – a false speech about the process of independence going against the Catalan economy. I maintained a law decree, approved by the People's Party and maintained by the PSOE, to facilitate the flight of entrepreneurs from Catalonia. And I kept a presuppositional reversal to the general assumptions of the State: neither Mediterranean Corridor, nor infrastructure, nor anything else. Given this situation, Mr President, what is your appreciation of the situation in the Catalan economy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.105.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.106.0	Yes; thank you, honourable Member. Indeed, I, the last weeks, and the first year of government, have had the opportunity, in different forums – to the Circle of Economics, to the business troubadour to the Pyrenees, to the delivery of Pimec prizes – so to make a point, a balance of situation of what has happened during this year. Let me tell you that the economy is fine, so you have the report you deserve as President of the Generality; but let the President of Pimec tell you, let the President of the Chamber of Commerce tell you, let the BBVA say that this year we will grow 2.2_per_cent and that the year you see – and therefore, with prospects already – we will continue to grow 2_per_cent, I seem very relevant; that the Financial Times continues to say that Catalonia is the area of southern Europe with the most capacity to attract investments, I feel very relevant. That's not what we say, experts say, business people say. I do not want to repeat the data that you have just expressed, but add to it that sometimes we do not have in mind, to see this Catalonia in position that I also claim, this Catalonia that gives hope, that gives, if they want, also, this future that all of us pray for. For example, two degrees of Catalan universities are among the fifty best in the world, according to the QS rationing. Barcelona attracts a 30_percent of the digital talent of other cities and is converted into the technological pole of southern Europe. 47_percent of Catalan entrepreneurs expect to increase the workforce this year, and 80_percent expect to increase their sales in this exercise, according to a report prepared by KPMG, in collaboration with CEO. Twenty-seven Catalan businesses are at the top of the world's largest growth in Europe. And what does that mean? What do you mean when we analyze not only this year, but the last five years? That it is compatible to defend the rights and freedoms of Catalonia with a country of opportunity and progress. This is the key. And it's against this precisely that visions that are popularly partisan, with this apocalypse that they intend to focus on the situation in Catalonia, face. Because the data is very clear. This is a country on the march, this is a country that is ready, but because its people get it. This is neither a merit of the Government nor, if I may, of this Parliament; it is the merit of the citizens, of the entrepreneurs of this country, who have managed to defend rights and freedoms and to defend progress and the country of opportunity still today. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.107.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality about his opinion on the campaign of the Catalan National Assembly on strategic consumption]] [[317-00110/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.108.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Torra, in Citizens we are very concerned about the more than 5,200 companies that have left since the coup and have not yet returned. And that's why we think we need to make a business return plan, which seems not to be among your concerns. And in that context I want to ask you a very clear question: do you condemn the boycott campaign to non-independence companies promoted by the ANC, yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.109.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.110.0	Yes; well, from the start, you have to explain to me what you mean by this "knock, because I don't feel absolutely disappointed and I can't accept it or tolerate it." There's no boycott campaign on the way, no one, huh? And that too I want to be very clear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.111.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.112.0	Yes; thank you, President. Really, Mr. Torra, you would do us a favor if you were to leave your imaginary republic once and for all. What happens is that you don't want to condemn this boycott, this misconception; that I don't say it alone, that the unions also say it, that the employers and, of course, the common sense, that which you lost a long time ago. Of course, you have not managed to get Catalonia out of the rest of Spain, but what you have managed to do is to get more than 5,200 companies out of Catalonia, and also plenty of opportunities to get wealth. We live in an unprecedented flight of companies, which also suffer from SMEs and the self-employed, which is affecting foreign investment, which generates insecurity, and also impoverishes Catalonia. And what is your government doing? Absolutely nothing, Mr. Torra. And it's not just that they do nothing to reverse the situation, it's that with you they follow instability. And on top of it now goes and says that they will do it again – that they will do it again, Mr. Torra. What? What are they going to do again? Will they strike again? Will the institutions be denigrated again? Will they break back into Catalan society? What will they do again? And in case all that, on top of it, was not little, it turns out that now his friends, those of the ANC, with those that go from hand to hand when they want to trample rights, decide to create a search engine to select companies related to the process or, what is the same, to point out those that are not, that is, a black list of those of all life, which is what nationalism likes. You are dedicated to that, to dividing Catalans, to pointing out Catalans, to making lists, to categories. So you, because you make lists between good and bad Catalans, between Catalans and colonizers, between good people and wild beasts, right, Mr. Torra? And now it seems that the turn has come to the companies. The other day in the Pyme Awards I heard him say that entrepreneurs had to do what they had to do was put themselves on the side of the right of self-determination. And I ask him: what if they don't? What's going to happen, Mr. Torra? Head to the ANC blacklist, right? Do you know the thousands of jobs you are putting at risk with your irresponsibility? As much as you want to make up reality, you are toxic to Catalonia's economy, very toxic. But let them be clear one thing: as long as you guys keep boycotting and running away...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.113.0	Congresswoman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] To answer the paragraph again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.114.0	Actually, president, if you don't... don't size it, and we'll continue permanently with this loop in which Ciutadans has settled, right? Listen, look, boyo, do you know what the big boyo was in this country? The boycott of the Spanish government [[remorse of the voice]] ... yes, yes, yes, what the Spanish government will do [[applause]] when he ordered the removal of deposits from Catalan institutions. Do you know what this means? , means the government of the state vagi against Catalan companies? Home, this isn't right... [[Greetings.]] And do you know what the President of Pimec said at the same award-giving session in which you and I seemed to be present? So the companies that come back, they do, but they don't get a tax incentive to do it. And I agree very much with what the President of Pimec said, I agree very much. Here no one walks straight, no one, only the State – only the State. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, for shame and shame, the one of his interventions that we have to listen to here every time. Shamefully, the one that Mr. Rivera had to go through when it turns out he says he has the support of Mr. Macron and Mr. Macron comes out like an hour later to deny it. [[Greetings.]] To be scandalous, the lies they come to say to you minute by minute, that they don't have pacts with Vox, and they come out of Vox's by teaching the pacts. For the runaway, Mr. Rivera. Where is Mr. Rivera? For fugitives, that you like very much this word, so look, listen'm, Mr. Valls, Mr. Toni Roldán, Mr. Javier Nart, Mr. Juan Vázquez d'Asturies, Mr. Miguel López Bachero... [[Greetings.]] And guess if after these five minutes of friendly conversation we've had, so, you know who else will jump out of Ciutadans, who'll come out the most, because, listen to me, this goes to an absolutely diabolical rhythm; more than "come on, Citizens, the issue is already" we're going from Citizens, and as soon as it gets better. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, listen to me, no boycott, no right-wing climbing, on the contrary, I have already shown you with the figures that this country is on the march, this country is not up to none, and we are growing as never before.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.115.0	Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]] [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the committees (Rule 49(2))]] After the control session, let's move to the second point of the order of the day, which is the communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions... [[Widow's remorse.]] Silence... In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees must be communicated to the plenary, as you know, and provided that this composition has been included in the file of this plenary, which has been distributed to all the members and deputies, I would like to be excluded from the reading. Yeah? Can I give it to inform the Ple? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Decree Law 9/2019, of 21 May, of urgent measures in the matter of the containment of yields in leases of housing and modification of the book of the fifth Civil Code of Catalonia in the area of the penyor]] [[203-00017/12]] So let's move on to the next item on the agenda, the third, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 9/2019, of May 21, of urgent measures in the matter of the content of returns in the contracts for the rental of housing and modification of the book five of the Civil Code of Catalonia in the area of the penyora. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Councillor of Justice, on behalf of the Government, will intervene in the first place to set out the reasons for which this Decree has been promulgated. It has the word, therefore, the Councillor of Justicia, Mrs. Ester Capella, when she wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.116.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Catalonia is committed to responding to the needs of the citizenry. Given the difficult situation of emergence and housing vulnerability, in a clear context of permanent escalation of the price of the logger, we have the duty to act to guarantee everyone the right to access a habitation. We can only talk about social cohesion if we have limits on the market. Because a person has a decent life, he has to keep the right to a habitation guaranteed. Even so, if we do not face the undue burden of housing, if we do not have limits to the increase in the burden of housing, housing will never be a right. We have to do more, of course, but limit the prices of calling too. In the past few years, the price increase has been widespread in the country, although it has been particularly pronounced in Barcelona and its metropolitan area. Habitat has become more of a good than a right, and there are many families who suffer invisible denomiments and have to leave their habitat because they cannot cope with the increase in the logue that is required or, when not, are directly denomied. Genetrification, poverty and social inequality are unstoppable as we debate which is the best way to respond. In the context of Catalonia, the average price of the loguer has increased by 29_per_cent in the last five years. In figures this means that we have reached a median of 698_euros, a hundred_sixty_euros higher than the year 2013; that is, the price of the logger has already exceeded the level of the pre-crisis price. The overall increase has increased especially in Barcelona and its metropolitan area, where the average price of a 70-metre squared logger is currently €949; it is a 38_percent more than five years ago, a medium increase of €270 per pis. You know perfectly well that neither wages nor people's purchasing skills have increased in the same proportion. We cannot lose a day more to face the abusive preus of housing and everything that comes from this high increase of prices: social inequalities, denunciations, gentrification, expulsion of people with less resources and general difficulties to access a housing. Today, with the validation of the decree of urgent measures in the matter of yield content in rental contracts of dwellings we have the opportunity. On 9 May this Parliament approved a motion directly urging the Government of Catalonia to urgently promote the adoption of legislative measures in the framework of the Catalonian civil law to allow Catalonia to have its own regulation of urban leases and, in particular, to have the public administrations of all the necessary instruments to limit the increases in the prices of the housing register in areas of high demand; a motion which was not only approved with the support of parliamentary groups supporting the Government; a motion which was approved with the support of Comú Pode and the CUP, to whom we recognize a long and courageous struggle in defending the right to access to a housing, a fight which we share, which we share. It's a compliment to this young man and to others who came from before we presented this law to Parliament for validation. The decree presupposes the limitation of the price of the logger preventing the disproportionate increase of the loggers. The limitation of the prices of loggers applies to areas declared to the housing market; that is, to the municipality or parts of municipalities in which access to loggers at a comparable price is at risk. The statement that allows the price limitation to the logue part of the affected municipality; the statement corresponds to the Department of Territories and Sustainability, because it is the one that holds the competition in housing matter. Unlike the rest of the municipalities, in the case of the city of Barcelona, because of its capitality, because of its municipal charter, the assembly, by means of an agreement of the municipal plenary, can declare the whole city or barrels or districts of the city as the area with the housing market, and therefore apply directly the previewed rule of price limitation to the loguer. The declaration may not exceed five years; it may also be extended or repeated if the situation so requires or justifies. The declaration of municipalities as the area with housing market assume that the price of the logger cannot exceed 10_percent of the reference price index of the logger price. In the case of dwellings that are rented for a higher price they can maintain the price during the duration of the current logger but this will be limited and will not be able to increase; it will therefore imply a freeze of the current income. In the case of new or fully rehabilitated dwellings, during the five years after the completion of the works, the price of the logger may not exceed 20_percent of the reference index of the logger price; after this period, the maximum price of the logger may not exceed 10_percent of the reference index of the logger price. In the case of these habitats, the standard provides for a three-year moratorium, during which time they will be free of yield content. Therefore, they will only remain without a limitation on the price of the new or fully rehabilitated habitats, and only during the period of the moratorium. In short – in short – a decree that for the first time in Catalonia and at the conjunct of the Spanish State establishes that it can limit the price of the logger with the objective of halting its excessive increase. The State was able to do so, and did not want, in the last decree that was approved in the Permanent Chamber. They didn't want to do it. When it's possible and it's flying, it's fa. In this case, the State did not want; it did not attend to the groups that asked it to do so. The parliamentary groups in Ciutadans and the PSC have tried to put an end to it by bringing the initiative to the Council for Statutory Guarantees. This has expressly confirmed that the Government of Catalonia has sufficient competence to approve a law regulating leases, a law in Catalonia, and the opposition of these parliamentary groups, which deny the faculty and competence to regulate the contract of urban leases in the framework of Catalonia's civil law. Tanmateix des de la Gouvernement de Catalunya cannot share in any case – in any case – that the Council of State Guarantees in its opinion considers that competition is state based on the Spanish market unit; we cannot share this way of hearing civil law, posing ahead of the market, ahead of people. We bet on a civil code from the person's centrality; institutions serve people, not the other way around. We must change, we must change the perspective: the person, at the center of public policies. Nor can we share the deduction made by the council of which it is based on contractual obligations; it is not shared by the Department of Justice, it is not shared by the Government of Catalonia, it is not shared by many civil law professors who consider that the Council of State Guarantees in this interpretation exceeds what it corresponds to and what it has to say. We have competence, we fully exercise it, because it's what we need to do, it's what citizens ask of us. The state has given up setting the bases. Since the Government of Catalonia, we will not limit ourselves to the competitions we have in civil law and will never give up fighting abuses in the price of the loguer market. It is our responsibility; that is why I am here today defending this decree of the Government of Catalonia. The proposal to limit the prices of the logue that today we bring to validation has been strongly fought for the establishment; the People's Party, the PSC, Citizens have already opposed it – I have already explained how – from the first moment here to Parliament. They also opposed the motion we approved. This opposition is compounded by – look who has added – the Bank of Spain, which says that we cannot lower prices because this would affect the bank's solvency, the predictors, the Bank of Spain that did not know how to predict the crisis that came upon us and that only what it has done is to give solutions to save the bank and not to save people; the Catalan Authority of Competition, which says that the limitation significantly alters the market of housing; Development of the Treball, which opposes because it says that it will paralyze the real estate market, and the House of Ownership, which has warned that this price limitation goes against economic theory. We often talk about block policy, all folds. This is a block policy. Despite all this, the Government of Catalonia and this council is clear on which block it wants to be, on which side it wants to be, in which position it is located before the emergence that we have at these times, and that we have had and that no one has wanted to solve. The Government of Catalonia will never be able to be in the bloc that is in favor of Blackstone, of the money to return, of the real estate negotiations without limits, with Ciutadans, with the PSC and the Popular Party, with the Bank of Spain, with the Foment de Traball and the Cambra de la Propietat. We are the block that allowed the approval of Motion 84/XII– we are in this block– in this very Parliament all just did practically a_me; in the block that thinks of the families to whom they support the loguer more than 47_per_cent to renew the contract, at the cost of those people who cost them paying their loguer more than 40_per_cent of their salary– also here the women come out more harmed than anyone else. The CUP and In Common We may have always been in favour of limiting the prices of loguers; we have been in favour together, you are also in favour. They picked up the motion that urged us to limit the prices, which demanded that the Government of Catalonia act. Despite this, they refuse today or appear to be rejecting today this decree of the law. For the People's Party, Citizens, the PSC, the Bank of Spain, the Promotion of Work and the House of Ownership, this decree went far enough, this decree went far enough; for you..., they say we are short. Companies and companies of the CUP and In Comú can, ask them to ask us a question. If you have this decree the law falls, if you have this decree the law does not come forward, who do you think will celebrate it? Who's going to be happy? Who's going to applaud me with the gorges? If Parliament drops the first decree that limits the price of the logger, we know who will be happy, I say to them: all those organizations that are partisans that the market is the rules of the sun, that the market fixes everything. Today, if we drop the law that limits the logger, you are on the side of the Bank of Spain, the Foment del Traball, the Cambra de la Propietat, the PSC, the PP and the Ciutadans. Who has seen them and who sees them – who has seen them and who sees them. Escotin, actually, it's pot; it's pot if it's vol. If you will, we will be able; if you will not be able, we will not be able. The Government of Catalonia has presented this decree with the will that the law can improve, that advances, that is passed as the bill. It's an offer I made them in private and I make them in public. They don't demand unconditional adherence, they don't ask them to vote for it. They ask them to abstain, to allow it to be processed legislatively, to allow the Parliament of Catalonia to debate the limitation of prices. Listen to me, Spain told us no, that it would not be possible to process it as the bill; they did not let us process it as the bill, they did not put it on the table that could be processed as the bill, because they neither wanted nor... could they not because they did not want to. I, therefore, now yes; if we fly, they can. It is in the hands of you, the CUP and Common We can. The proposals that allow it to be passed as the bill, that make all those items that you consider to be necessary. Where the text is short, you can bring it. Tell them we have to do it. They don't like the index; they propose more things. I will remind you of something that Mr. Montaner said, who was the governor of Barcelona, of the Barcelona Assembly, of the government of En Comú Pomera, when he approved the index of prices: they did not like everything, they had to improve, and they were willing to improve. I have not seen a line at these times to improve the current text. I invite you to participate in the better part of the text, I invite you to debate politically in Parliament; that this text, which is currently of the Government, which he presents, follows the text of this Parliament, where are rules the possibility of limiting the prices of the loguer. We give an answer to the needs of the citizenry, escort; that can allow civil society organisations, such as the PAH and the Llogaters Union, to compare before the Justice Commission and explain what its layout is, so that the text does not please them, in which they can improve this text, that they continue to participate. Let us - in all participants, let this text follow the text of this Parliament, of the Parliament of Catalonia. That we do not agree that we cannot leave habitat in the hands of the free market, you already know that we are all here. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Some, yes. On the other hand... there's a clear block that there isn't going to be, and it's been shown by various ways: voting against the motions, but also, in the state government, they haven't done it when they've been able to do it. If we validate it, we can improve it among all; if the fall, it can't improve anything, we won't have an instrument, we won't be left without anything; let's go back to the exit box, let's look again at things happening from the window of the house. We're still in time to avoid it, we're still in time. We have offered them everything in our hands. Tell me who else I can offer you because you want to debate in the Parliament of Catalonia a bill of law in this sense. And I'm doing it with all my humility. We may have been wrong, yes, surely, but I offer them the opportunity to improve the text; I offer them the opportunity to process the law decree as a bill. And, as Angela Davis said, we've stopped accepting things that we can't change and we're changing things that we can't accept. Therefore, therefore, we can limit the prices of logger, yes it is. Don't take this opportunity, don't take this instrument. We're still in time. We have the possibility to donate white card processing of the law decree. You're required to be forwarded with the bill to be able to debate it. We just hope you want to do it. I would like to thank the Commu Puedi and the CUP. They ask to sit in Parliament to debate it. We are on time if we want to do it; yes it is, and I hope that you will also want to do it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.117.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then we move on to the interventions of the parliamentary groups to determine their position. And in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Manuel Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.118.0	Thank you, Mr. President. The reality is that the Torra Government lives on the basis of headlines, that is a reality. I am surprised that they are even critical of Sánchez, because in these months that they have been supporting Mr Sánchez, and that they will surely support him in the future, instead of negotiating twenty-one separatist demands of shame in Pedralbes could have done something different, instead of looking at the navel or invading competences; they could have allocated sufficient housing resources, fiscally incentivizing citizens who want to access a home or helping to develop the LAU where they have competences, that is, in the Congress of Deputies, with real measures, instead of false headlines. The funny thing is that you come here to tell us that you're in favor... that curiously, isn't it? , the supervisory bodies, which in this case is the Board of State Guarantees or even the Catalan Competition Authority, have told them what they have told them. However you tell me that here the Department of Justice has another criterion, that is, you and your friends, and also some professors, but you haven't told me the names either. The truth is that here its objective is basically to double the LAU, that is to make a separate regulation, when they know perfectly well that the competence is of the State. The decree law is another example of the submission and concessions of the Socialist Party to its investiture partners. On October 30, 2018, the government of Pedro Sánchez withdrew the appeals against the laws of the Parliament contrary to the LAU, provided that the Government did not re-submit an autonomous law contrary to the LAU, but that its proposal for a national law was presented. And what did Governor Torra, the separatist government, do? Just do the opposite; it is the great result of dialogue. What is clear is that the foundations of contractual obligations know that it is the exclusive competence of the State and that in this case they have no competence. As Lluís Salvado said before the coup to democracy, they remember when they intended to make those fake decrees so that they would be buried by the Constitutional Court and thus assume a victimistic role, a populist strategy, and that they also continue in the same, because they did it again on May 21st, curiously five days before the municipal and European elections. As I have said and I reiterate, you are capable of everything so as to get a headline, because this decree does not swallow it nor the UPC, and see that it is populist, the measure. And it's that you and Sánchez seem quite alike in the background: you disguise your disgovernment on the basis of decrees, without legal attachment, without competences, without calculating the pernicious effects, without economic memory and only looking for the holder. Moreover, not only because they do not have a majority and govern on the basis of decrees, which in that they also seem to.... By the way also, if they remember the title of the year 16, on September 13, it was already said that the Generalitat would lay the foundations for a Catalan law, specifically for the first quarter of the year 17. This was announced by Constellera Borràs, I don't know if you remember, but as this doing headlines is continuous on your part and making decrees that make no sense... Beyond this, we could also talk about incompetencies in housing. What has the Government done about housing? The truth is that it has a lot of skills, but neither Torra, nor Puigdemont, nor Mas, nor the tripartite Republican Left with the commons of the time, have done anything in housing policies. Because if we look at the past, for years, with the 3-percent pujolist, the tripartite and the procession, nothing has moved. It has only served to have a public park of housing that reaches no more than 2_per_cent, in front of the 11_per_cent European or the model of cities like Vienna, which reaches up to 60_per_cent. The Government's priority is not public housing, it is clear. And a few months ago, and we can talk about a few months ago, the Government, instead of maintaining public ownership of the housing – or even an agreement signed by Mr. Oriol Junqueras – has disposed of social housing; that is a fact, this is July of last year specifically. He disposed of social housing and even failed to comply with the agreement of 22 September 2016, where Mr Oriol Junqueras and the former Councillor for Governance and Public Administration, Meritxell Borràs, and the President of the Taula d'Entitats of the Third Sector signed an agreement according to which the floors of intested inheritance would be intended for people in a social emergency, and instead you sold it a few months ago. That's his housing policy. We could also continue to talk about..., imagine how things are, that even the syndic of the process itself, which is only dedicated to whitewashing and defending the people, has criticized the difficulty of access to housing and the lack of housing policies over the last few years; in particular, we would talk about almost twenty years of lack of housing policies. So much to talk about recovering suspended laws from the Constitutional Court is to cover that none of you has complied with the provisions of Law 18/2007, from the right to the habitatage. It's been almost 12 years. And he was talking about creating a public park of affordable housing that was integrated into both the physical and social environment. But the fact is that the Generalitat does not lack competences in the field of housing, they just want to regulate and they want to double laws that are exclusive competence of the State. The problem that citizens have is the lack of supply, and you cannot deny that young people and the few resources that..., have serious difficulties in finding decent housing. But of course you're more than giving money to TV3, to the bailouts, to the chiringuitos and to the pleasure trips that we all pay. By the way, three new embassies have now been opened. When we speak also of the control bodies themselves, which are the ones that supervise their performance, we can highlight the report or the legal oversight that you have made and the economic oversight that the Catalan Competition Authority denounces. Catalonia is the third community with the most expensive income in Spain and assumes that families spend up to an average of 40_percent of their family income to pay rent or access to housing, and in addition in the last five years prices have risen by 30_percent in Catalonia as a whole. And it also warns us, first of all, that there is no economic impact assessment of the measure that is intended to be implemented; that is, you have not developed either the economic impact assessment, and this is denounced by a monitoring body. Secondly, that the containment measure is highly restrictive of market mechanisms and, although there is a general interest, the effects of the measure must first be assessed in terms of proportionality and minimal distortion. Thirdly, that the price containment measure can lead to different undesirable negative effects, which lead to a departure from the objective of promoting accessibility in rental housing. What is clear is that the measures have to go much further, as Acco warns, which must be of a multidisciplinary nature on different regulatory fronts, such as urban planning, territorial planning, building, consumer credit, mortgage credit, urban leases, procedural or even tax incentives. The worrying thing is that the reduction in the rental offer, through this price limitation, would generate the effect just opposite to the desired one; we have already warned them. And, on the other hand, the legal chapuza, that already warns you the Council of Guarantees Statutàries. First of all, the Council of State Guarantees says something so new that you already know: that it is not a question of repeating national legislation, although we already know that this is what you are trying to do, with the «ho ho will be back to iron as well; that apart from the fact that the Generalitat cannot reiterate or contradict what is laid down in the LAU itself..., and that it is not a question of Nou Barris, Gracia or even Santa Coloma de Farners having their own regulations, which we have all guaranteed through national law. Secondly, the Guarantee Board reiterates that it is the responsibility of the State to establish a uniform basis throughout the territory for the lease of housing as an instrument of access to housing, and that any autonomous community must respect such basis. Thirdly, that the LAU already establishes certain restrictions on rent increases during the contract over the CPI and that such increases are already prohibited, in order to avoid greater limitations being counterproductive, by taking out the offer or increasing the black market. The problem of housing is not solved by reiterating at the autonomous level what is already established at the national level, much less by contradicting it. And, fourthly, the Council of State Guarantees also recalls that the question of 'the establishment of restrictions on residential housing loggers laid down in later years, especially in urban areas, is a topical and non-controversial issue. The truth is that this regulation is not going to make young people have more housing; more regulation no longer guarantees access to housing. Public measures are needed in a wide range, and this is only demagogic. If they believed that the problem of housing, which was a problem of lack of supply, would be solved by limiting income, why did they not build public rental housing and set a limited price within the framework of that public ownership? Instead, they sell it and dispose of public ownership. How funny that the lack of public rental housing most companies and even some imputed in the past by 3 percent are private builders, isn't it? Another major issue would obviously be to talk about the situation over the past 20 years, but we already know that for you to do nothing is a way of doing politics. Because perhaps asking young people if they prefer a stellate or find a flat, guaranteeing their access to housing, would surely be the answer that young people would have. They haven't even presented the 2019 budgets. Uncertainty is contrary to economic activity, and you, with this decree, in addition to invading the competences of the State, going against market unity and against the autonomy of the will, have made a proposal that does not have an economic impact assessment, because you do not believe it and because it is populist, demagogic, and has no future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.119.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the turn of Congresswoman Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.120.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselors, well, I agree with the counselor. No, you don't think I agree with the decree, do you? I agree with the analysis he does and with the data he has given. In the context of Catalonia, the price of lloger has risen by 29_per_cent over the last five years, that is to say, the levels predicted at the end of the crisis have exceeded. The general increase has been particularly accentuated in Barcelona and the metropolitan area, where the price of an logger of a pes of seventy-two square meters is currently 949 euros, according to data from the same Incasòl; it means a 38_percent more than five years ago. And, obviously, we agree that the labor returns currently cannot cope with these increases. Therefore, it is obvious that it is necessary to stop, and I would say more, that it is necessary to bring down the renders of the logger, because the families can no longer stand up to it. But I have to do it right. And here's where we disagree, Counselor. They bring us today to debate and validate Decree Law 9/2019, of 21 May, of urgent measures in the matter of yield containment in leases of habitat. The decree promoted by his council, which intended the modification of the fifth book of the Civil Code, is the perfect excuse, was the perfect excuse because Esquerra Republicana is hanging a medal, or attempted to do so, in the matter of habitation. The decree was passed the same week as the municipal elections, and thus generated a headline: "The government works to limit the loguers or, more accurately, "The left works to limit the loguers. It is good that this decree complements the emergency requirement that all the decrees must have; its emergency, the electoral urgency. What does this decree really mean? So, look, on the one hand, there's a regulation that goes beyond our competition, and on the other, there's a series of measures that don't come out of the situation of the increase in the loguers that's occurred in the last few years. As far as competition is concerned, look, counselor, it's not that we want to put up with the decree in the statutory guarantee board, we didn't want to put up with it. The Guarantee Board, as you already know, does not have it, this function or this power. In fact, your reports are not binding. If they were, you wouldn't have taken them to approval, validation, that decree. We wanted to know the opinion, and it's very clear. We see that to you, when the reports of the Guarantee Board are not favorable to them, so they don't deserve much respect. The council is very clear, it has been very clear, and in its report it states that the bulk of the measures of the decree are not found in Catalonia's Statute of Autonomy and that they are contained in the Constitution. But, in the band, we believe that the will expressed by the law decree, that in the term of six months the Government prepares and presents to the Parliament a bill of law regulating contracts of leases of urban estates, has already been brought to the Constitutional Court in the similar format that contemplated the additional Sisena provision of Law 4/2016. In that case, the Government of the State withdrew the appeal lodged before the Constitution on that provision, because on October 2018, in the Bilateral – Bilateral – General – State Commission, it was agreed that – I quote literally – "both parts – both parts –" agree to interpret that the legislative initiative to which this provision refers, on the assumption that it is intended to affect the existing legislation regulating urban leases, which is the competence of the State, will have to be dealt with by the legislative procedure provided for in Article 87.2 of the Constitution – I finish the quotation. That was the deal, he'll advise. If we have initiatives to regulate urban leases, we will have to ask the Government of the State to process a bill of law or bring a bill of law to the Congress of Deputies, as we have done other times; and we have an example of that a while ago, with the modification of the Criminal Code for the decriminalization of euthanasia. So we don't understand what the government's goal is at the time of presenting this decree, rather than generating an electoral leader – we've already seen it – and looking for the possible confrontation with the government of the State, which is always good for you. Because effective solutions, this decree is not in the door, in the form or in the background. And we're talking about the fund, we're already entering the statute. Mirin, unlike other extraordinary and urgent regulations regulated in a law decree, in this case, even though the decree is already in force, we have no news that it has had an effective entry into force in the city, including Barcelona, because after the elections it will be expected that the municipal governments will begin to be effective in order to be able to demand the definition of the area of housing market. The decree also defines percentages of increments over reference indexes: 5, 10, 20_per_cent. In some cases it can assume a much higher income than the loggers are already paying in the current. They also generate more than reasonable doubts about the possibilities offered by the chapter of unique habitat features not included in the index calculation, and the general expenses and individual services that can be attributed to the lease as escapade lives for yield containment. On the other hand, there is no sanctioning regime. Thus, we see that the free deal between the parts of a rent above the limit that corresponds to it, with a waiver clause for claims on the part of the lease, could constitute a cancellation clause. But, in any case, as there is no sanctioning chapter, the possible consequences of a clause of this type, assuming an action of complaint by the lessee, whether in an extra-judicial procedure or by verbal judgment, are limited to the return of more than the legal interest on the part of the lessee, without other consequences, fines or penalties. The owner takes the sea of peace, because these sanctions are not provided for nor for remission in this decree. And, in any case, it is necessary to claim the lease, the weaker part of the contractual relationship, which would initially have the expense of the claim and the curses to be claimed. Therefore, for reasons of competence, but also content, we will not validate the decree. That's not a good decree, Counselor. You can't handle it through the bill. And this is not just the opinion of the Socialists and Unity Group to move forward, or of other opposition groups, of this bloc that you had previously drawn, because it does not go from blocks, he will advise, because if you were in blocks, we would have to remind him that you were in the Ciutan bloc when we tried to recover the article of the Law from the access to housing that provided for the expropriation of the usdefruit in case of empty habitats, and you voted against it, just as... – yes, ma'am, you voted against it – as did the Ciutan Group. So, we don't think that this is going to be blocks, but it's going to precisely donate solutions. Entities working in the area of housing have manifested the same, they will advise – the same – and not entities that answer to what you were talking about returning funds, the Bank of Spain, no, no..., entities such as the Trade Union of Lodgers, for example. The Catalan Competition Authority has also stated that it has made a very unfavourable report in this regard, saying that this regulation can carry exactly the opposite effects to the quest. In a matter as sensitive as housing, with a small housing park, you cannot copy real estate models born of other realities. Experiments are counterproductive, he will advise, and more so if the one they seek is not donating solutions but creating headlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.121.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Congresswoman Susanna Segovia. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.122.0	Thank you. So, yes, there's a housing crisis that every time is worse, in Catalonia and the rest of the state. First there was the mortgage scam, now there's been added the bottle of the logger. As the Councillor Capella said, once and for all, the last few years the winemakers have bid a 30_per_cent to Catalonia, a 40_per_cent to Barcelona. Catalonia leads the flow of denominations throughout the State, 65_per_cent to logger, and we don't count the invisible denominations of people leaving because they can't pay the logger when it's gone, when the contract was gone. Thousands of families, who are changing, who have to change cities, bars, school children, who push them back three hundred or four hundred euros. We are immigrating from an unprecedented housing crisis. We are sure that no one in this room can deny that this crisis exists, that it translates into forty-four denunciations a day, into families that dedicate 50 percent of their entrances to housing, from residential insecurity that many and many families see. But before that, we had a citizen's answer; we had the citizen's answer, the organization's response, we saw the organization of the loggers and loggers grow. And one of his requests, but not the only one, was precisely the limitation of the prices of lloger. Preventing this disenfranchised growth. To increase the duration of contracts, to limit the demand for prices, to make the housing of lloger an alternative for families: to make the housing a right, not a speculative good. It is before this demand that social organizations do, that some parties in fact remain, that we propose it and claim it to the programs, that we bring it here to Parliament, that we carry it and fight it to Congress, more or less successfully. In this case, less successful, because it is true that the Socialist Party, at the last hour, was defied of a compromise it had, and that is true. That is why the battle at the Congress will also continue. That's why we'll also give the battle here and where else to get a price limit linked to the income of families, because this is the effective bond that will get you to put in... Mr. Calvet already tells me no. You see, we don't agree? This is the limitation that you will be able to put on the price boost. Beyond the topic of competitions and statutory limits, which we do not want to enter, because we agree that all the exclusives must take advantage of, even if it is worth it... A small incis: to the first proposal of the State that came out of this Parliament there was the subject of urban leases; and it was then, in the negotiation between the Lord But and the Lord Zapatero, that this subject was extremated from the State that we currently have, this was taken up in a Socialist negotiation and the Lord But, that pertains to his partner of government. That's why we don't have it in the State right now. Above is a motion to this Parliament, which we support. We take advantage of all the slaves. Upstairs a decree. I don't think I'm going into the electoral issue. No, I don't want to go in, because it's gone, it's gone. It's the same. If the electoral opportunity has given us the opportunity to actually have a decree that was made on this subject, there we would be. I don't get in when they did it and the moment they did it. In which I enter is that when they did, Esquerra Republicana did not seek neither the support of the social organizations nor the support of the organizations that gave him support in that youth; only he sought the support of his governing partner, only Junts per Cat, only PDECAT, only Convergence, of those who gave support to the Law of Denominations Expressed to the Congress. Of those who do not believe in the limitation of loguers because they believe in the freedom of the market, and because they believe in the right of the tenants, be it Society, be it back, be it what they are. With these they wanted to work, instead of with organizations and social movements. So, what did they have? An empty-contained decree, empty-contained in the yield limitation; empty-contained. And that, you know, it's hard, but it doesn't work out with a deal like a bill of law. No, no, Because the dish is made, and in the end you can't change the model, because it's a model problem, and a model problem doesn't work out with a decree already made, with a decree already approved, and now you're trying to change its essence with ideas. It doesn't work out through law project processing when you don't agree with the model you're setting up. When social organizations don't agree. A model that is based on the experience of Berlin. If one thing goes well late, it's that we can learn from failed experiences. So, no. They'll get back to Germany's experience, which has shown it's failed. Come on, let's get back together. We're late, but we're looking over at what didn't work. It doesn't work – it doesn't work. We don't share the model. That's why we don't think we should do this. The dish is uncooked and expects, then, that I will arrange it for you in the parliamentary process. It's work before, it's work with entities. You say that the first people who came out to say "who does not agree with the decree is the Bank of Spain". It's not true. The first was the Llogateres Union. The first one. The first was the Llogateres Union, which already told him it was a farce decree. [[applause]] When he was announced, when he was approved of the government. Look for the tweet line, it's easy. Since they have the custom of using the government's Twitter accounts to make political proselytism and attack other parliamentary groups, using this Twitter account thread to search for this information. [[Greetings.]] Because they have it. They're going to be the first. We've already had them arrive, at the two meetings we had... – two meetings, and the first one a week ago, and the second one yesterday, at the last hour, and at the end of the day – to try to see how we save this scene. Why don't we like this decree? We do not like this decree because it is based on the index of the reference price, which is the index based on the market. Therefore, try to regulate the bidding of loggers on the basis of an index that is based on the bidding of loggers, they will recognize me, as at least, that it is quite contradictory and quite little effective at the time of limiting the prices. And that's what social organizations say, in the band of all exceptions and all the holes that this decree contemplates. I told the question to Parliament at the last session we had. They're doing an exercise, entering the index's web page. There are people who when they get into this, the outflows that have to pay more than they're paying. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's true – it's true. I go in and do the exercise. Enter: a pes of 80_metres_squares to the Eixample, which are now paying 1,100. According to the index of reference, they could get to pay 1,300. And over-affirmed by the supposed regulation of loggers. So, when we don't get that the regulation of loguers really impacts on the downfall of priests, then we'll say, "Ups! That you don't see it, that it doesn't serve the regulation of loggers? The regulation is not used to limit prices. So, this decree, which could have been an opportunity, is actually a bit of a treat. It's a bit of a treat, it's a missed opportunity, just like it happened. Because he didn't work with people, who fight him every day on the street. Because it didn't happen with the Lloggers and Lloggers Union, it didn't happen with the PAH, it didn't happen with the Venal Associations; it happened in a closed office, like a government agreement to try to get through at a time of election. And if, however, it's still an election moment, the content of the decree served, we'd find ourselves. Yes, they would, and we would, because we can't afford to lose opportunities. And this, this decree, is a more lost opportunity on the part of the government. We've already seen it with Mr. Calvet's decree. And now they've done the same thing again; exactly the same, they've done the same thing again. You insisted on wearing it, although I knew you didn't have the support. They insisted on placing a block policy, trying to put the groups that are all opposed to the same call, when they know perfectly well that the reasons are completely different. I don't know if they're also putting the Landlords' Union on the block, because yesterday we saw it on TV, that they were also trying to place them, the Landlords' Union, next to the Landlords'. I don't know if this is the best way they have to convince themselves of the bonds of their decree, but they obviously didn't, so. They know why the funds come back... in fact, it's not that they slap the ears, it's that they don't do it, it's that it makes them pesigolles, this decree, it's that it doesn't affect them in absolute re. The Banc d'Espanya has gone out there, but where do they have statements of the funds coming back? : "Oh! It counts, that he sees Venice to the Parliament of Catalonia to regulate the llogers... no, they didn't. They didn't do it because it's not true, because the decree doesn't have any measures. They've insisted that it's now or never, this or this head, or we'll either bring it in now or there won't be that chance. So, we say no to them, because the organisations and the Llogateres Union and the people who work with those affected by the housing crisis will continue to work there, will continue to try, will continue to make proposals. Because this Parliament has to work with them, and this government has to work with them. So, a little humiliation too. We understand that this decree does not serve, that it has not had enough supports in this chamber, when it could have them. We're working on these supports. Learn from the 24/2015. It's good. We work on broad agreements, we work on measures that really respond to the needs and the crisis of the loguer. Talking to the entities, working with them, making a block with them, and coming to this Parliament and seeing as most of the forces that we are here do not dare say no. Because if that's okay and it's okay with the organizations of loggers and loggers, the people affected, it's very hard for a political group to say no. If it is really compromised with the housing crisis. So, yes, Counselor, I'll return the question. If they fly, they may, but they must fly, and for now, they have not come. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.123.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Congresswoman Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.124.0	Well, counsel, you ask us to pass this decree by means of a bill, that we send it. But it's that we can't discuss a decree with which we don't even share the essential elements that define it. With regard to forms, from stage to social movements, to the local world, to parliamentary groups. A decree agreed only with the College of Administrators of Farms and six days of municipal elections. Correction, perplexed, we had to attend a government press wheel in order to have information about this decree, because you did not explain to us the king. But not only to the parliamentary groups, they did not explain either to the local world or to the organisations that defend the right to housing. They want us to be the exception decree, because you have already been concerned that this decree will not be effective and will not be effective when you are interested in it. The decree that does not regulate either a sanctioning regime, and that puts more at the same height tenant than owns, when it is clear that one of the two has a position of power. It does not include any inspector, does not pursue the owners, does not accompany the tenant in a complaint process that must be undertaken only by means of a verbal judgment. In this way, the law that does this, put the same tenant and landlord up, when it is obvious that this is not so. The hardest of all: the index. An index based solely and exclusively on market prices, on current prices. I don't need to explain to people what this means, because people already know, when they pay for it, what they want to say to current prices. The same priests who follow the same decree have caused an emergency situation; the priests who the same rule says they can fight. It's just that it doesn't mean anything, that it's contradictory, that rule, and that more decree allows you to increase your market price up to 20_per_cent! Madam Counselor, we cannot accompany you in these measures. It's that you can't take German law and apply it here with who doesn't want it. You know that in Berlin there is a public park of 31.5_percent of the total park of habitats and here we do not arrive even to 2_per_cent, why have they not made habitat policies? Today we are being asked to validate a decree to the citizenry, to approve the decree of exceptions, to put the same owner and tenant, to legitimate price of the cylinder and to allow it to continue to rise. We, you know, are the first ones to approve a decree that rules the prices of the lodger, just as we are sure that the companies of Catalonia in Comú also want it and that the people who participate in the union of lodgers or those who want to defend the right to housing want it. But we don't share this decree, it's that we can't share it. And look what you insisted, did it until the last moment, including tell us that it is this or the king, that you will not prove it again. And we can't accept this, because it's not a waste. We cannot pass a regulation that allows the price of logger to be included a 20_per_cent per market price, which is already completely deorbited. You want to set the limit even higher than the market price. You want us to help you pass a decree that will still boost the current prices. What they're dealing with, Counselor, is that they can't ask us for this, they can't convey to us a responsibility that is theirs. We can help them limit the prices of the market, we've always defended it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But we can't do it this way, we can't do it this way, Counselor. You have to ask why, why the collectors who wear so many years defending a necessary regulation of the loguer's prices have asked them to withdraw this decree. We are in the hand, I said it 50 times, to the governing groups and to all the groups in this chamber, because we are sure that in this vote we are not voting for everything or anything. Because, if you keep the political will to regulate the prices of the loguer under which the market now imposes itself, you will find us at its side, and you know it perfectly well, counsel. And we'll tell them again, we'll hold their hands. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, parliamentary groups that support it, can jointly advance a law of truth, agreed with the local world and with organisations and with a sufficient parliamentary majority. But remember that they don't have the majority, that they need other groups to form this majority and that they need to work with us. Not yesterday at six o'clock, at the last hour, we sit on a table. We have to talk about it before, we have to agree; not only with us, but also with the local world and with the entities. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] And, therefore, it is a question of political will.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.125.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.126.0	We're convinced we'll do it. We're holding their hands. We're at your side to do it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.127.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of MP Esperanza García. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.128.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, will advise, well, the difficulty of finding a habitat with conditions of security and accessibility in Catalonia is a reality that is worrying, I think that in these all parliamentary groups we agree, especially in those cities where tourism has created a side effect, that it is gentrification, that is, that people who are local and who have seen their whole family, historically, in a certain area see it impossible to live in the same bars as their opinions or their peers. This is a reality, that is to say the government and the People's Party, so they share the diagnosis, but more, more than the diagnosis. Why? Because we consider that the estry is not this, and the measurements are not. And why aren't they? Not only because there is a series of elements that we believe are absolutely infringing on the constitutional and the statutory framework – this is what the Council of State Guarantees says – but also for the instruments and the ways in which it ended and brought itself to this Full Decree. First of all, you say that you want to solve the problems of the market of the loguer through this decree, and that you do so with basic measures such as creating a price reference index; fix, let's say, a topall of 10_percent of this index that will fix the corresponding department and that will therefore not affect new challenges, and make a habitat area, a protected habitat area you have, right? And we consider that this regulation, therefore, meets with economic reality, and also with legal reality. With the law, because they intend to fix an index that is state competence, they intend to set contractual bases that are state competence, and they also intend to fix, say, a procedural_mark, that it is also state matter: 149..., go, there are points... The State Guarantee Board has made it quite clear, hasn't it? And also, after all, I violate the Statute, as I said, right? But it is also that they regulate a matter in a way..., that it seems that you make according to five unintended errors when there was already a precedent, and the precedent – it has been said here – is precisely a law, more or less in the same sense, that the People's Party Government brought to the Constitutional Court, because it precisely carried these inconsistencies and competitive invasion, and it turns out that the Socialist Government, the new socialist Government, that are, go, devotees of the naive dialogue, so they withdrew this appeal, and we find ourselves again here. We've given them a second chance and they're still doing exactly the same thing. But it's that, besides, we have a reality, and it's that even all the measures that this decree contains are absolutely counterproductive, that is to say, do not solve the problems of the difficulty of accessing the "living room". And you know it perfectly well, because the Catalan Competition Authority has also told you, the Bank of Spain has told you, the unions have told you, and even all the experiences to similar countries. And even so it has been said here: listen, to Germany, while respecting the legal framework, they have made use of this same regulation, with these same topalls, and it has not, all the contrary, continued to raise the price of the logger. So that not even just to observe the foreign experience are caps of drawing conclusions. See, the problem here is that the government hasn't done public housing policies, and it hasn't done so since 2007. Here it is approved a law, precisely, that fixed up to a 15_per_cent, let's say, the object to absolve on social logger habitat, and we are in a 2_per_cent. That's the reality. You haven't worked, you haven't expanded the deal with the Sareb. You have not given security to the market by mediating the dialog with the owners. They want to make the situation worse, because this decree, by fate, will not be approved, because it seems that it no longer only has the opposition, let's say, of the establishment, which you have defined as the establishment, which is Foment, is the Catalan Competition Authority, the Bank of Spain..., but even all the members of the CUP are now part of the establishment, and also the members of Catalonia in Comú Pos. They were expanding it: they started with the front and now it's establishment, right? We have a reality. The reality is that you have the stretch to work. I have discussed it before: social housing, construction, expansion of agreements with the Sareb, public housing policies... Don't expand yourself, mitting the ICF, buying houses, that don't solve the problem. I'm trying to work for the lives they can. And, please, they don't make use of those families who have housing problems, as they have done with this decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.129.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. All followed is the return of the Republican Parliamentary Group. Mr Jordi Orobig has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.130.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselors, counselors, deputies, deputies, well, I think it's a little bit of a problem that brings us to this debate, don't you? I believe that there is a general consensus among all the political formations represented here that we have an obvious problem with housing and that this problem, obviously, has an impact on a fundamental part of..., well, the life of families, which is the income available to be able to cope with the expense that entails them. We have a sense of respect for which is the problem, but it is also obvious, of everything we have talked about, that we have no sense of respect for whom are the tools that must be used to find this situation. Moreover, we have the absolute certainty that some criticize the tools that in this case are promoted from the Council of Justice and from the Government of Catalonia to give a solution to this situation, but that in any case they are willing to take the risk of taking part in a parliamentary process that can ultimately lead to a better of this text, which indeed serves to give an answer to this situation. It is also true that recent differences have been approved..., well, a regulatory regulation, in this case in the Congress of Deputies, in this case a royal decree that purported to arrange this situation, a convention of the deputies in which the commons, who have already expressed their opposition, therefore at this initiative of the Government, supposedly had an important weight at the time of taking the determinations about the so-called Socialist Party, and what is obvious is that this regulatory regulation, which the Government of the State has made, in no case gives a solution or a hint of its own to proceed with this limitation of prices. In any case, what is certain is that this decree that is the door to validation is not something that has emerged for a spontaneous generation. We have to remember: we have had a previous question to the Government; we have had a motion, which in this case was explicitly agreed with the CUP and the group of commons, and it is precisely the transactional text that emerges from this motion that is the basis of this decree that is supported by validation, that is a transitory regulation and that does not prevent the Government from presenting a draft law that regulates the urban lease contract, a circumstance that the same decree already establishes at the first final disposition, to take place within the six-month period after its entry into force. Well, there's one question that's gone through enough points and that's important enough for us. As has been well stated, therefore, in this case, this decree, two groups – if I do not recall correctly, that of Ciutadan and that of the PSC – asked that in this case it was supported in the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, and it is an important circumstance, because it was intended to pass a lot of points, and for us it has an important importance; the more we speak in terms of fairness, and the more we speak in terms of leases. And in this case it is the explicit and unequivocal pronouncement of the Board of State Guarantees of the full competence of the Generality to make the regulation of urban leases. And for us it's important, because so much the Socialist Party, with its always peripheral and provincial view of this Parliament, like Ciutadans, isn't it? , as always with its always centralist and unitary drift, and in this case with the will to arrange any difference, it is obvious that they had questioned it in a very firm way. And in this case, as far as your intervention is concerned, in your words, Mrs Ibarra, I must remind you that the Council of State Guarantees has explicitly stated that what you can say to the Sub-Committee on Standard Follow-up, Prevention and Resolution of Conflicts of the General-State Bilateral Commission, more concretely than you have stated, of 30 October 2018, "can not suppose in any case the waiver to exercise competence, as the competitions are indisposable. Therefore, the competence is of the Generality and, therefore, in this sense the exercise, as well as the exercise in this case the Councillor of Justice and this Parliament. Therefore, let us claim our sovereignty, let us claim that of the people of Catalonia, we are for something more than the folklore of the "castlers", eh? , given by Mr. Carrizosa, or to regulate exclusively the emphyteutic censuses and the dead raid. We are a modern country and therefore want to regulate things in a modern way. And neither is it good that they pervert the advice of the Board of State Guarantees. We believe that between lines it is more than obvious that it is given to understand that, as long as there is no establishment of a basis for contractual obligations in accordance with Article 149.1.8 of the Spanish Constitution, in no case is the possibility, in this case of the Parliament of Catalonia, to legislate in the framework of urban leases being restricted. The only thing the Council of State Guarantees says is that, if the State does this right later, it is to say, that which constitutionally confers on it Article 149.1.8, and as the basis that stands in contradiction with the Law of Urban Leases of the Parliament of Catalonia, the regulation that this one has made before these. Therefore, I think we have a consensus; there are no regulatory bases. But who's to say, that a lease regulatory base has to be the delineation of income? We understand that a basis of the lease is logical to follow the determination that an income has to be made, that there has to be a period of validity, that there have to be some resolution clauses, but in no case can there be a formula that allows defining who has to be the abst or the extension or that can be limiting in any case the income, as principles that are more adigent and more important. Honestly, to the Commission on the Application of Article 155, to which you obviously never come, I think we have had illustrative examples of self-censorship, and unfortunately I have to say in these terms, and I say it with all due respect, I say that I believe that the Council of State Guarantees in this case has self-censored, huh? , in this case the good is put before holding the wound and what it does is preview a hypothetical reaction of the State or of the different parliamentary groups, which, obviously, will bring to the Constitutional this rule, as it satisfies a public interest. Because also in the same opinion of the Board of State Guarantees, therefore, we hear about the unit of the market, the freedom of pacts, but instead... – and we are talking about the Board of State Guarantees, which has to address the statutory and constitutional legality of the rule – but we do not see any reference to Article 47 of the Spanish Constitution. You remember that, don't you? What does Article 47 of the Spanish Constitution say? Diu : « All Spaniards have the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing. The public authorities shall promote the necessary conditions and lay down the relevant rules to give effect to this right, regulating the use of soil in accordance with the general interest to prevent speculation. In the same terms, Article 26 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. So, what's the government doing? In exercising its civil skills, it exercises, and promotes, in this case, regulations, insists, transitory, as long as there is no specific legislation on urban leases, in order to regulate this situation. And it does so in accordance with the fundamental rights of the citizens of this country, both those which are embodied in Article 47 of the Spanish Constitution and those provided for in Article 26 of the Statute of Catalonia. Why are we in a legislative chamber? To represent the citizens, to defend their rights. From my point of view, and I say so clearly, at the same time the price escalation, not regulating and not controlling the abuse of prices is manifestly antisocial and unconstitutional in the terms that have been explicit in Article 47 of the Spanish Constitution. So, obviously, for us, this legislative initiative can be described as more timely or less timely, but this is anecdotal at this time. I mean, what's important is what we do to satisfy the rights of our citizens. We might think that we have come to this point, therefore, for a mismanagement, for a rebekery of this parliamentary group, for the inquiry we presented in his day and for the subsequent motion or, in this case, for the way in which the Councillor of Justicia did. And I honestly say that nothing is more than reality. Our obligation, that of the representatives of the people of Catalonia, is to bring to debate and find solutions to the demands of our citizens. Not just from the citizens directly, but from those who are more clean, and, in this case, I am talking about representatives of the local administrations. May 26, 2018: "Metropolitan mayors demand to stop abusive loggers by law. Colau, Barcelona ; Sabater, Badalona ; Parlon, Santa Coloma, i Conesa, Sant Cugat, urge to modify the regulations to combat the escalada of priests to the great cities. Which of the tools promoted today to the legislative chamber, including the Congress of Deputies, served this purpose? What is the only legislative initiative that is truly addressed in this sense? So, in this case, the decree we're bringing to validation today by the government. That you do not satisfy them, that you understand that this index of reference, as it is a reference to the price of the market, can be harmful to the interests of the citizens and that, in fact, it does not result in a strict limitation of the imports of the lease and that, therefore, it is ineffective? Listen, we're processing it like a bill. The problem is not the reference index; the problem is the correction coefficient on the reference index. Today we're talking about a 10_per_cent. Who says that after a parliamentary process this index or this coefficient – forgiveness – cannot change and that, therefore, it can satisfy these requests, not only of our citizens, but of those who represent them many times, as can be the Union of Loginrs. In short – and I am referring above all to the group of the commons and the group of the CUP – it is at their hands; we validate the decree, through it as a bill of law, and the fruit of parliamentary processing, we come up with an agreement that makes the people of Catalonia more proud of their institutions for their public interest and for giving answer to the phonenal rights of their citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.131.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of the deputy Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.132.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen deputies, councillors, councillors, good morning to everyone. We are here, in effect, for a long time the compliment of Motion 84/XII, approved by the Parliament of Catalonia, on the regulation of urban leases of the civil law of Catalonia. And precisely in this motion was the clear mandate to the Government on the part of this chamber, that the Parliament urged the Government to urgently promote the adoption of legislative measures in the legal framework of our civil law in order to allow us to count on a specific regulation of the lease contract, for a band, which goes beyond the limitation of state legislation and, moreover, to allow us to equip the joints, the locals of the necessary ones to limit, precisely, the problem that everyone has found to increase the price of the dwellings. Therefore, here, indeed, we held the inquiry, we held the motion. The debate took place and was approved, not only for our group, but logically for the Republican Left, and it also took place and approved with the group of commons and with the group of the CUP. Therefore, this decree only fulfills a mandate of this Parliament. But, obviously, we must always start from the reality that exists, because if we do not make an appropriate analysis of what is there, we will hardly be sure of the measures. Therefore, from our group we do want to focus on specifying which is the reality of our real estate market and not giving place to demagogies. The majority of habitats that have to be registered are the property of physical persons and not of entrepreneurs, and the last data we have, from the year 2018, is that the horizontal property is 74_percent of the contracted and vertical habitats, only on 26. And this makes it clear that the majority of buildings that can enter the market are the property of physical persons and, therefore, in their decision to put in place housing weigh many other factors than only business economic interest. We are in a market, therefore, directly from particular to very few professional and that the main bulk, as we say, is in the hands of private or small companies. The 97_per_cent of the housing real estate market is in the hands of private and small companies. And the reversal, the so-called return, that we won't say it doesn't have an impact, it's just the 3_per_cent of this market. Therefore, this is the reality of the market in which the measure is inserted. The need for the decree was evident both for the intervention of the Councillor of Justicia and for the rest of the groups. We are all aware of the difficult economic vulnerability of a large number of families to cope with housing payments. The year 2017 more than 42_percent of the lllars allocated more than 40_percent of the tickets to the payment of the logger. And it also stands out the increase in prices, a 15_per_cent last years, with a special incidence in many barrels of Barcelona. Moreover, demand for logging is growing intensively, as from 2011 to 2017_has increased from 20.3 to 22.9_per_cent. It's actually in the brand where she's beautiful. We have defended in the intervention of the motion and are now defending the competence of the Generality, the competence of this Parliament in the development of the civil rights of Catalonia. They brought to the Council of State Guarantees, both the PSC Group and the Ciutadans Group, strictly in order to defend the State's competences, precisely violating the competences of this Parliament and the Generality in the matter of civil law. The only thing that worried them was to preserve the competitions of the State and not the needs of the citizens of Catalonia. It gives, many times, the impression– and the intervention, in this case, of the PSC, alienates me; in the case of Ciutadans, it is already customary – that they operate only as a fifth column of preservation of the prerogatives of the State and violating the competences of this Parliament and, therefore, the rights of the citizens. Civil law is the competence of the Government of Catalonia and is the competence of this Parliament. The civil law defines us as society, we have already remembered it several times and we will remember it as much as we need: neither the franchise could repeal it nor the New Plant Decree. And sometimes it makes the impression that the only statute they would want to apply would be, precisely, this New Plant Decree. Therefore, the development of contractual leases is perfectly civil right competence of this chamber, as are also the competence of the Government, in this case of the Territorial and Sustainability Council, housing policies. The opinion of the Board of Statutory Guarantees is clear in this respect, both the Constitutional Court's doctrine and the same doctrine already drawn up for the same Board of Statutory Guarantees. And it says, precisely, that the principles of information about civil law, and even the whole costume, are accepted that they can go beyond the content of the respective compilations, and it refers to the foral rights in their conjunction rather than to concrete institutions. It is stated repeatedly in this case-law that civil rights may be subject to conservation, modification and development, that it is precisely what they claim, so that they are susceptible to an organic growth that allows vitality towards the future and projection on non-regulated aspects until then to adapt it to the new social circumstances, which is exactly what we are doing with this decree. The Catalan civil right cannot be conceived as a residual set of norms and institutions with fragmented and subordinate character in a way that is subordinate to the State right, but is a modern standard system, equipped with internal connection and coordination and conceived as a complete order. It is, in short, a living and modern right of a living and modern society like Catalan, represented by this Parliament, to which it corresponds to defend its competences and, above all, through them, the needs of the citizens of Catalonia, without the usual recourse to the Constitutional Court repeatedly and regrettably used by groups of this chamber to violate the sovereignty of this Parliament and the rights of the Catalans, especially in this case political rights and above all social rights. And justicia's advice, precisely, in the area of developing these civil rights competitions, has already approved the preliminary memoir of the preliminary draft law on urban estates, which will end up carrying in its moment here. Certainly, all groups have criticized the content of this decree; we have to answer some things that are certainly not. In the case of the PP Group, the price index is not an invention of this decree, it already existed. And it is not certain that prices are not limited; this decree allows the price limitation to be contained: otherwise a price may never be higher than the current contract. And the 10_per_cent increase can only be as it is referred to in the reference index. Therefore, it is a measure that authentically establishes a barrier, a containment to the rise in prices, which is ultimately what everyone has expressed was an imperative social need. Moreover, and this was especially the case with the commons, it was precisely to preserve the local autonomy, the competence of the assemblies to take the initiative to declare the areas of interest. I in the case of determining them..., specifically that of the Barcelona Assembly. And, therefore, they're giving up this tool. Therefore, they have all been against each other, some for a moment, others for a mass. Certainly, it's strange to see the side – it's very wrong for me to look at the eyes – the CUP and the PP in the no to this decree. It has been offered repeatedly to process it as the draft law, there you can introduce all the elements that relate to the debate, all the modification measures. Therefore, in this case we have the citizens to be victims of political tactics: we have not offered them a solution and today in this room we have not done our job; today we will get out of here without anything. The government has done its job, but not the parliamentary groups, and the families with difficulty in paying the loguers will continue to have them. And today, this intervention is over, I can't help remembering that political prisoners are moving them today to Catalan prisons, but they're still in the same place where they shouldn't be, which is in prison. Therefore, freedom from political prisoners, freedom from all exiles and, above all, freedom from politics that should never have come out, which is from this chamber. Pass court policy, pass court policy and return it here for debate. We're still in time. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.133.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, ma'am. Counselor, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.134.0	To intervene.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.135.0	I can intervene. He knows that he's coming back and that after the time you've devoted to this second intervention proportionally we'll distribute it to the group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.136.0	President, thank you. I'll be brief. Members, Members, I thank you; in general you have been correct. I don't share the arguments of that block that I was exposing today that they won't allow this decree, so it's validated, not that the vote in favor, that they're abstaining, that allow processing, that's processed as a bill. And in any case, I thank, obviously, the Republican Group and the Joints for Cat that allow me..., that made the intervention that they have made. I'll do a few brushstrokes of some things that have erroneously been expressed by some of the doormen. The decree law, this decree law, supports the Codification Commission – the Codification Commission – which is an organ that relies on the Department of Justice, which is formed by professors, professors, academics, lawyers, lawyers, notaries, law scholars, who have a very extensive knowledge of Catalonia's civil law, and therefore form part of the Codification Commission, to make proposals as to whether the modification of Catalonia's civil law is necessary. And that's not something I don't care about, but it's that it's historically part of the Department of Justice, and it's that it's accompanying the drafting of standards that affect the civil law in Catalonia. The second one was accurate. So the government presents initiatives, and the decrees read is an initiative in the hands of the government, and that, therefore, responds to an emergency situation; that, certainly, the Council of State Guarantees has not questioned either the emergency or the need, and therefore endorsed in this sense what the government of Catalonia has done. To say that the government is the one that has the initiative to end and implement public policies, and the government is a coalition government. Therefore, who presents a demand decree is not the Councillor of Justice alone, so that it forms part of a certain political organization, it is the Councillor of a coalition government that presents initiatives, that acts as a government and that, therefore, presents them there where they are and where they belong, because things happen, not because we look from the window, which is what will happen here today. So, another nuance to some of the statements made this morning here. It is true that the Board of State Guarantees does not suspect, determine, or, therefore, condition that the Government may raise certain questions. But I can say that we do not share – and the Councillor of Justice says so, but I do not just say that the Councillor of Justice – some of the statements that the Council of State Guarantees makes in its opinion, because it exceeds the interpretation of what neither the Spanish Constitution nor the judgments of the Constitutional Court have said in its opinion, which is also said by the Council of State Guarantees in its opinion. But in any case, look, someone was asking me, someone was asking me why I don't say the names of the professors. Miri: Dr. Badosa, professor emeritus of the University of Barcelona, recognized, recognized. Thirty years ago, in a few days in Tossa de Mar, he already spoke about the bases of the obligations and whether the Government of Catalonia, if the Generality of Catalonia, if the Parliament of Catalonia can or cannot regulate when the State does not do so. And he responds affirmatively and therefore responds critically also thirty years later..., thirty years ago, but also at this time, to which the Council of State Guarantees has said, when it should not have said so. Therefore, you today resign... I did not ask you to vote in favour, I only ask you to abstain, to allow parliamentary processing, that the bill is politically debated in the case of the Parliament of Catalonia for legitimate representatives of the citizenry, that they are the people that the citizenry has voted for because they represent them and because they make laws, deal with them, discuss politically in the case of the Parliament. And then, as a matter of fact, who wants to come, who wants to come and who is responsible, but who has the responsibility: the government to govern, the parliament to legislate, and the parliament to facilitate the political debate. When you give up this, when you block this, so there's no politics, there's another thing. Some say that we exceed – that side of it – others say that it is a little – this part of here and a little further up – while the market is alone, does what suits it, that it is what is happening to us and has passed us, not now, not from these last five years, forever: the market is alone, the Bank of Spain steals hands and all those that the non-limitation allows them to do to what they agree, speculate. And I'm not talking about the structure of the property... are we talking about the structure of the property? The structure of the property is not a widow lady with a pin to fix the thought, because the ability to congregate a widow lady – which, therefore, are not organized and do not form part of an entity or foundation or of a company to return – so it does not blow up the bank, it does not push up 40_per_cent the logger. Here, behind all this, there's speculation. And it's not a phone book, speculating. Yes, it is a fundamental right to access housing and the social function of the property. Today, you had an opportunity and you gave up holding it. And, look, honestly, I don't know how to block the processing, endorse, allow it to be processed, allow a bill to be debated..., with help to improve the life of the citizenry, with help to make front to which is passing to any barri of the capital of the country or to any right of the great cities of this country and of the peoples of today's country. That's saying stop me, don't want to do it because I don't know what I'm doing. I've told you since humility, since deep honesty of who believes that through politics things are done and things are changed. Immobilize because it's not that, if it happens, we can make a mistake and then someone will ask us. So to do politics and rule means to say this: more extended, let's do it. And for now, if we don't, we won't have an instrument. We'll take a year, a year and a half, two, three, four, five, to hold an instrument, and while we're at it? Res. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.137.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now parliamentary groups have a two-minute turn per parliamentary group; one minute for sub-groups. We'll do it for the same order of interventions as before. Therefore, has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, Mr. Manuel Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.138.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mrs. Counselor, what's clear is that they're still working at a hit-and-run. The Acco has already said it, and it is clear that it was an economic and a legal one, because both the Catalan Competition Authority and the Council of State Guarantees say it very clearly: you exceed your powers. And you don't believe it either, because you haven't made an economic impact assessment; you don't know what this measure can mean. You don't believe her either. In addition, five days before the municipal and European elections. It was clear that the issue of housing was a main theme in the municipal elections in Barcelona, assuming that your candidate wanted to take it to the mayor's office, and you obviously got out of the joke five days before, a decree that you didn't believe. What is clear is that, on the one hand, the measures have to go much further, which have to be of a multidisciplinary nature, on different regulatory fronts, such as urban planning, spatial planning, building, consumer and mortgage credit, urban leases, in procedural or tax matters. I believe that here you have done nothing, you have only done the headline. And, in relation to what I was saying about the Board of Guarantees Statutàries, it's true, it doesn't suspend anything, which..., who should have suspended it would have had to be you, beyond this. The commitment of Oriol Junqueras and Meritxell Borràs, what was it? Not to sell the flats that were owned by the Generalitat. And they sold them a few months ago. Mr. Calvet can vouch for that. Forty-six houses sold, in particular, from untapped estates. What is clear is that you have not believed in housing policies, you have not believed either..., you have not believed in any policy of access to people in special vulnerability or to young people. That's a reality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.139.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Congresswoman Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.140.0	Thank you, President. Miri, counselor, seems perfect to us that you have so much regard for the Commission of Codification of Catalonia. We've got it, too, obviously. But I would also ask you to have the same consideration for the Council of State Guarantees, which is a statutory body, which some of its members have been designated for this government and which is more filled with professors and doctors and specialists in law and civil law, such as its president. Therefore, it respects the Council of State Guarantees and respects its reports even though they are not in favour of them. And, look, Mr. Campdepadros in his intervention said: "The government has done the work and who has not done it has been the opposition. Escotin, it's not like that. The government has not done the work; among other things, because the government has no majority in this chamber. And you have been unable to build consensus on this decree, you have been unable to do so. And so who hasn't done the job and so who gets a zero out of this plenary was the government, just as he went through the other housing decree they presented, in this case, Councilman Calvet. So we ask them. You have the opportunity to work, you have the opportunity to iron political housing solvents. I'm faking it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.141.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.142.0	Yeah. He will advise, thanks for the answer and for the interpellations that continue to be made, continuously. I mean, you're a coalition government advisor and you're right. In fact, the decree demonstrates this spirit of coalition government, because there really is the will to regulate but the emptiness of content, which is what their governing partner would say and what is said continuously, because who spoke, when we held the debate of the motion, about the structure of property in the hands of large people was their governing partner, were the representatives of Juntes for Catalonia. So maybe they have a little problem, too, modeling between you guys. We've already told them: it's not now or ever, this or ever; we've told them: let's sit down and work it, but let's work it well, let's work it before, let's not wear the girls' stuff and shut it down, because they don't have an absolute majority, and if they want the support, we need to work it before. And this decree will not come out, let's make another one; sit down with the organisations of loggers and loggers, with social organizations, work; the next Tuesday they take him to government and the next Ple can bring him back here and then we talk about it and approve it. And if not, let's make a bill of law; there's a bill of law, there's a lot of girls. What we're not doing is giving a decree that we think is a lost opportunity, that is counterproductive. The market campes, yes, but it is that, with this decree, the market will continue to camp and, above all, with the authority of the Government, that tells it that it is regulated. And you know that. That's why there weren't the reactions that should have been, with the strength that should have been. That's why you went to work with the Farm Administrators' College. For this reason, the decree says that its objective is to protect the tenants; not the blind, no, the Societies and the return funds. The decree is not good, but let's work it out. Today, what we lose is an opportunity that was lost a month ago, which was lost a month ago. Don't they want to waste more time? Let's work it out from now on. Working with the Llogaters and Llogaters Union, working with the organizations. And we'll get to work. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.143.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Congresswoman Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.144.0	Yeah. Madam Counselor, today we are not voting for anything or anything. We do not lose any opportunity; we will work, we will work because it is a reality to regulate the price of the winemaker. And we're hoping for it at our side. Look, as much as you're trying to justify, including by institutional means, trying to say that we're disinforming the citizenry with this, with the Aragonese law, look, they're making political proposals, and it seems very good to us, but we have the right to confront them politically as well. And, therefore, what we want is for debate to take place, for we talk about it, and for that reason, we can agree on a law with which we all agree; also the municipal world and also social movements. It's the only one we're asking, we're talking, we're sitting on a table, we're actually doing it. Because we have this intention and we want to work with you because this is a reality. And to disinform the people; to say that what we are saying is not true. It's not like that, it's just that they're politically confrontational...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.145.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.146.0	...and they don't like it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.147.0	...time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.148.0	...to you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.149.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.150.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Madam Counselor, of your last intervention – and I say it with all due respect – seems to you to be the spokesman of an opposition group. You here have given us a reflection as if you are practically presenting a proposal for the law. You don't rule, do you? What can't you public housing policies do? We did not stay here that there was a law, here in Parliament, passed in 2007, that is a commitment to reach up to a 15_percent of" social protection living and still in a 2_percent? Didn't I also tell him that the ICF can't grant credits? And that's not what the People's Party says, that's what the Union of Accounts says. And you're granting mortgages. They make public housing policies and try not to blame the rest of the opposition for their mistakes and shortcomings in the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.151.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's the return, now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr. Jordi Orobtig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.152.0	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. In any case, therefore, to encourage the councillor for her resilience and determination to look, in any case, to avoid a bad one, as I think we are going to do in a moment's time in the vote. Tell the lady Ibarra that to disagree with the parent of the Board of State Guarantees is not to be disrespectful to the Board of State Guarantees. Everyone has right to form their opinion, everyone has right to express it freely, or if not until today is what we have tried in this Parliament. And, therefore, as we disagree with some of the solutions that I find, because any jurist can understand that the final conclusion to which above is after the construction of a juridical imagination that is not supported by the same asides..., in the same article 149.8 of the Constitution, therefore, it is clear that the legal construction that it does not correspond to anything that a jurist can hear as to something reliable. Finally, in the common sense, it seemed to me to detect a certain sorcery respecting what the councilwoman said, didn't it? Logically, this decree obeys a coalition government and you said: "It is already known that it is a coalition government. Listen, so I'll take a note of what's going to happen to the Barcelona Assembly. His coalition with the Collboni of 155 and with Mr. Valls logically will also be noted in his policies. And, therefore, they don't fight so much, they don't make so much noise and prepare for what you see. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.153.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Congressman Eusebi Campdepadrós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.154.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... So yes, by connecting with the deputy company that preceded me, effectively, it is a coalition government, and a governing government, and a government that makes policies derived from the needs of the citizenry. We have debated much at the length of this decree on the competences of the Generality, the competences of the Parliament, the competitions in civil law. Look, we have the limit, the scope, the mark that we have for the exercise of competitions is the mark of the needy of Catalonian citizenship. This is the first limit, the first mark that we take into account, much more beyond other marks that you always pretend to fit, pretend to limit and pretend to cut. And, indeed, these needs are the ones that lead to urgency. The same opinion of the Council of State Guarantees does not only discuss the procedure of the law decree, the urgency, but also the whole series of data that corroborate the reality of what we have described. Therefore, this urgency today is not being answered with responsibility for the groups. This was not a decree of a trágala, but a decree of a more extensive, that, before a need found for all groups, we begin to set a measure, a measure that is applicable, but at the same time we begin to process it as a bill of law, and there you will be able to listen to all entities, all parts. Because, indeed, we always talk about the loggers, but yes, I insist, we also have to talk about the property, because the measures have to be balanced. And probably the proof that this measure was balanced is that criticism and refusal have come both from one band and from the other. Therefore, we still have the opportunity to get out of here with a solution that claims citizenship. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.155.0	Thank you, Congressman. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and that the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The result was the following: 64 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. Given the result, therefore, Decree Law 9/2019 has not been validated. [[Decree of 10/2019, of 28 May, of the procedure for the integration of educational centres into the system of ownership of the Generalitat]] [[203-00018/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The next item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 10/2019, of May 28, of the procedure for the integration of educational centres into the generality's ownership network. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Education Adviser will act in the first place, and on behalf of the Government, to expose the reasons for which this Decree has been promulgated. [[Pause.]] When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.156.0	Thank you, President. Counselling, advising, deputies and deputies, the presentation of this Decree Law on the procedure for the integration of educational centres into the Generality's own network of offices, as laid down in Article 45.3 of the Law on Education of Catalonia, and also responding to the need for local petitions, the future situation of some private centres and the need for further education in the face of their own courses. This decree must also be a tool to help us fight school segregation and strengthen Catalonia's education service. In fact, this decree responds to an urgent need in the context of the structural evolution of our education system, which has various points of view: the existence of compulsory teaching centres, which are already ordinary or special education centres, which have local ownership – joints, branch offices and offices – created in a concrete context and which do not meet the standard competence in the field of education; the willingness of some local authorities, which are the Department of Education, to assume the ownership and management of these teaching centres; a change in the pattern of enrolment, for which the percentages between the public school and the school are in place, namely, an increase in the number of places in which the centres are held and the management of such centres are located; a change in the trend of enrolment, but a change in the percentages of places between the public school and the school, in which the institution is located, an increase in the number of places in which the centres are located; a change in the number of places in which the institution is located in the special request for registration; These cessations, which may be the result of the tendency to increase schooling in public centres, may also be the result of mergers, absorptions and disaggregations of private centres; the completion of activities in our home of some religious orders; the difficulties of economic and social maintenance of a particular private centre, or the own decision of the future of some cooperatives, often accompanied by a significant social impact on the bar or the city where they are located and may result in a significant shortage of places in a certain territory. Approximately half of these cessations have concentrated in the city of Barcelona, it is obvious that it is very difficult to find only public equipment to build. Specifically, from the 2004-2005 course to the 2018-2019 course, thirteen concerted centres have ceased their activities in the city of Barcelona. But more than Barcelona can discuss other cases, such as Mataró o Terrassa. Killing, for example, has taken place in two years to assume a school population of five thousand children and primary school children in the public sector to have to study more than seven thousand, at a time when the private sector has increased by five hundred students. Or Terrassa, where in the same years the population of the stage of childhood education and primary education in the public sector has gone from a little less than eight thousand students to thirteen thousand, while in the concerted the increase has been only six hundred. What has this produced? It has produced, for example, that in the case of Mataró it has had to create five new public schools and in the case of Terrassa it has had to create nine public schools. In this context, we have at this time the need to respond urgently to petitions of different types. For example, two secondary centres dependent on the community of municipalities outside the metropolitan area, which the community has offered to the Department of Education the transfer of title; they are secondary centres which were required by the willingness of joints in a territory where there was no public offer. There is now a public offer in more than one part of the territory and the promoters consider that, properly with the regulations and with the current reality, it is the department that needs to be located in the centre. We have a special education center in a city in the metropolitan area that we need to transfer, for a few similar reasons. And we have a few private centers in Barcelona city and in several other municipalities of the country that are in a situation prior to its cessation. Not in all these cases does the department have the will to implement the decree. In one case, from Barcelona, because it is about an educational center that was until now found in a building and obviously there cannot be a change of ownership of a center if this center does not have a building. Secondly, from a cooperative in a municipality outside Barcelona, where the cessation of the cooperative's activities does not mean a problem of schooling in the territory and, in change, the department has helped the cooperative to find a return to work for the teacher and to relocate the studentship to the centres of the territory. And yet a third center, located in another municipality of the country, of a religious order that hangs, that the department has done the same service that explained to them, with the removal of the student and with the veto that the teacher remains with all his labor rights. But, in the band of these centers, the rest of the centers that I have mentioned, one, their cessation means problems of schooling and the department has the will to assume its title. And as a matter of urgency – and as a matter of urgency – because precisely this decree reads as the first objective of strengthening the network of public ownership centres through the incorporation of centres of other ownership that are already created and authorized, and thus to provide an important pool of resources, which must also enable us to meet the progressive demand. Not just a waste of resources, which is, but doing it, being able to do it. In the Eixample of Barcelona there are no solars. If a private concerted centre ceases and we cannot build a new public centre, the only possible solution to meet the demand is this. We must also allow the decree to respond to requests for public places in other areas or municipalities of the country where the demand is, of public place, very much over the offer currently existing. And it's the department's will, and it can't be any other way, that every family that asks for a public square has a public square. It can't be any other way. For another band, this decree allows us to reduce the presuppositional expense, allows us to eliminate prefabricated modules, allows us to eliminate new buildings with definitely need for rehabilitation in some cases. And this decree has another great focus: to solve the decentralised management problems that present some local corporations that have municipal ownership centers. Between some cases and others, this decree allows us to act quickly, because until now, when a case of these characteristics is given we have not been able to do so, to act directly. There's a case that you probably know, there's a private, concerted Barcelona school that shut down, it stopped its activity last year and the course you see in the same building will have a public center. We have to be a year without being able to use the building because, as it is not possible for you to change ownership, we have to wait for the cessation and creation; for the cessation of a centre, for its definite closure, and for the creation of a centre. This is an absolute inefficiency, it is what this decree allows us: it allows us to pass from one title to the other in the same building in one day, with the student who wants to stay in that school and with the teacher, who I will talk about in a manner similar to. Moreover, the decree also compliments various parliamentary initiatives, such as Resolution 263/XII, which urged the Government to activate the processes of integration into the public network of local ownership centres. When will this integration of a municipal title centre, private title centre, foundation title centre, any type of title that does not belong to the Department of Education be produced? When will it be produced? First, when I satisfy the need for schooling in the framework of the educational programming of that area; it has to satisfy some need for programming. Secondly, when there is a mutual agreement between the Department of Education and the office of the centre, agreement that it can only be made from the petition of the office of title; it is to be said that, in the case of an assembly or a deputy, the plenary approves the petition; it is to be said that, in the case of a community, the corresponding organ approves the petition, and it is to be said that, in the case of a private office, that private office is directed in a reasonable and reasoned manner, in writing, to the department to request it. When these cases are produced and there is an agreement and meets a need for schooling, we will find ourselves with the application of this decree. Therefore, this decree does not allow nationalization of schools, as someone said at some point, it is not a decree of nationalization of schools, it is a decree of transfer of title, of reinforcement of the public network and of compliment of the need for schooling. Who else has the law that guarantees that its use will serve what I have been commenting on? Basically, the maintenance of the teacher's job stability; a teacher whose decree does not spell out well how this maintenance is guaranteed, because he is a teacher of very different characteristics. We're talking, in local schools, about teaching that it's going to work in one place, which is work, which is interest, but it's work in that place; we're talking about staff, in private schools, that it's work, what's always fixed, and we're talking about staff that's not only teaching, because in all these cases there's administration staff and services. Therefore, the decree allows the Department of Education to negotiate in each case with the unions represented in that sphere and in that territory, the unions represented in the assembly if it is an assembly, in the Chamber if it is a Chamber, in the Mark of the Negotiating Table with the agreed school if it is a concerted school, because we guarantee, that it is to which the decree obliges the department, the employment status and the working conditions of this faculty. It will change the educational project of the center, obviously, because they are centers that have an educational project, in the case of private schools, of religious character, linked to the ideal of the promoter foundation. When the title change will obviously no longer have the idea, because what the department will do in all cases is that the direction of the new centre, of public ownership of the Generality, will function as the Department of Education, because this is obvious, and that these will promote, with the existing educational community, this new educational project, which, obviously, as the public title center of the Generality, will not be able to have a religious idea – obviously. But in any case, I insist, Mr President, and with this I conclude, that this decree is a law that develops the LEC but faces a reality, that gives us the tools to solve a problem and to respond to petitions from the local world, petitions from private owners, and basically also to respond with careful attention in the process of schooling families and the studentship of a territory and an area. There are many cases at these times, that we have the table; the forecasts, that there will be no more. The various realities, which point out here, are the will of the department to obey them. Moreover, in the current scenario of presuppositional prorogation, they are measures of economic efficiency, they are measures of social efficiency, they are measures of territorial efficiency, and they will allow us to give a good answer. I hope, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that most of the parliamentary groups, or all the parliamentary groups, will support it and we can now have a tool to make some of these changes possible by September. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.157.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then we move on to the interventions of the parliamentary groups to determine their position. And in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Martín Eusebio Barra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.158.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Councillors, in the first place a memory for Professor Teresa Cardona, who participated in a social promotion activity in Mali and died when she poured the bus, this Sunday, in which she traveled with her students. Our condolences to your family and friends and our desire for a speedy and complete recovery for the ten students who have been injured. [[Greetings.]] The Government presents us for validation the Decree Law of the procedure of integration of educational institutions in the network of ownership of the Generalitat, and the last paragraph of the explanatory statement..., literal read: "The measures to what does reference this decree law donarian answer to the urgent need to solve these problems to cover the demand for current schooling and allow to strengthen immediately the education system. I repeat: there are problems that are detailed at the beginning of the same paragraph – I will not repeat it now – problems related to meeting the demand that need urgent response. You've heard, congratulations! Counselor, congratulations! They could not have made clearer than the previous advisors, advisors of Education, of Education, many of them from the same party as the current one, have not given a stick to the water, to the point that it is now urgent to solve the problems generated by their chronic lack of forecasting. I also repeat the end of the paragraph: "These measures would allow the education system to be strengthened immediately; you have also said so. So it wasn't that hard! It was a matter of acting without waiting for urgency! And also with immediate effects. They had it in their hands, they could legislate and deal with the problems of Catalans. They already had the necessary skills, they've always had them. The Generalitat has the competence to promote this integration law, according to article 45.3 of the LEC, and, as far as municipal schools are concerned, the additional provision of the Organic Law 2/2006, the Spanish Education Law, protects them. No, don't rush, I'm not going to call you the state's quintacolumnist, but let's see, let's see how much oppression the evil Spanish state, which has legislation that allows you, as long as you want to get to work, respond to urgent needs and with immediate effects. I dare to recommend, both to you and to the rest of the Government, that you stop playing lighthouse with I don't know what future imaginaries, don't wait, and already use the legislative powers you have to make laws that respond to the needs of Catalans. Come, animen se, man, take the custom of making laws; within the framework of competition, of course, clear. They will not be used to complain, but they will solve urgent problems, and there are many, many urgent problems and in many departments. There are other details of this decree that would almost seem surreal to me if they didn't come from you. Yes, yes, surrealism, that movement initiated by André Breton that never followed logical reasoning. We have examples in many replies from the President of the Generalitat, but, well, I will refer to you. Did you say this morning that Citizens control media power? Pure Surrealism, Counselor. This decree law will allow you both to rent and buy buildings and dedicate them to schools. But they could already rent it; you yourself mentioned the case of the San Vicente de Paul School, etc., that next year, the next course, will already be a new public center, the school institute. So, if you could already do that, I malice myself that this decree law is more intended to buy than to rent. But, of course, one of the problems you mention, those problems to which you are going to respond urgently with this decree, was "the limitation of economic resources to build new buildings. This is about the limitation of economic resources, you know, for what they want. I would see the news last week, I guess: according to the Court of Auditors, the Generalitat has spent almost 417_million_euros abroad in – I read – « activities aimed at an illegal end. For that there was budget; the Catalan children, in barracks, and their friends in the process, in those chiringuitos that they call "embassies" – last week, three new ones. According to the memory of this decree law, which I have read, building a new center costs between 4.8 and 5.6_million, depending on whether primary or secondary. I mean, with all this money you've enjoyed abroad for nothing, you could have built eighty new centers: forty primary and forty secondary. But, in addition to not having the courage to approve your own draft budgets and present it in this Parliament, that is, if, according to you, you have limited resources to build new buildings, will you have resources to buy old buildings and that, as you have said, you may even need reforms? Of course, the reports accompanying this decree law say they expect it to come out cheaper. Surrealism is not lacking. In fact, whether there is money to build new buildings or buy and remodel old buildings will depend, as so far, on what they spend on the usual. Of course, you can also tell me that building a new building requires a solar; yes, you mentioned it. Yeah, to put barracks they always find. And there is one more economic aspect to highlight: the decree provides – Article 4(b) – that the Government can take charge... of the center's management debts? Let me make it clear: we will buy them the building, we will see at what price; we will remodel it if necessary, of course, and we already have solar and work done to take the demand for squares; but must we pay them their previous debts? Counselor, I will not deny that there is a need for public ownership centres, of course. It was also said by Councilwoman Budó, the spokesman for the government, at a press conference, that there was a need for places, and added that there were two kinds of realities – you have mentioned it –: concerted centers that are about to close and municipal centers that some municipalities ask the Generalitat to assume its title. The municipalities have this government – well, this one and the previous ones – abandoned, but very abandoned, particularly on the subject of the schools of Bressol, which has not made the contribution committed for years, so it has already been condemned in a firm sentence to pay the outstanding debt; it has very abandoned them. It is that some of these municipalities asked the Generalitat to take charge of these centers many years ago. It's about time they took care of them. But what are those concerted centers that are about to close? Look, if I may have the culinary metaphor, the chef – you – has given orders to the cooks, the department professionals, who have used the right ingredients and made a good menu. We need to know who they're planning to invite to enjoy that menu. He has already mentioned them and there are candidates who are willing to sit at his table; I imagine them sighing for placing that school about to close, making them the valuation of their facilities, calculating what management costs we are going to incur under the 4.b and..., no one likes, no one likes to let go of a heritage of many years, no doubt, but, finally, willing to sit down, to negotiate the price, at this table so well served that it has prepared them. And, look, if with this integration and at the right price we were actually able to cover a real need for schooling at the right price, it would make a lot of sense, of course it makes sense. Because, if these centers that are about to close, would actually close, not only would there be teachers with experience on the street; we would also have students who would have to look for a new center, with all the uncertainty that that generates. I know, you said it: for this decree..., the process to be launched, it takes both the will of both parties and there is a real need for schooling to be covered. Yes, yes, but look: it is that in view of the forecasts that you have made, the whole department, for years, of the forecasts of schooling – that lead us to where we are, that you have us here – allow me to doubt what you will do to justify the purchase of those centers that you already have in mind to buy. Look, counselor, you may think I'm very sensitive, you may think I'm suspicious... look, I'm not worried, you may think what you want. In fact, you said this morning, "it's not like you to everyone to refer to someone else, "it's not like you to everyone... Well... almost nobody is like me; there's no problem, you can think of me what I wanted. But, look, given the trajectory, that of your predecessors and yours, in the educational management of the Generalitat, do not tell me that there is no reason for suspicion. Look, our party today is going to vote in favour of the validation of this decree law. Yes, that you buy buildings, provided it is at a reasonable price and that you are willing to sell it, you can benefit the students, of course, and allow to cover the needs of schooling, even if they are needs created by the chronic lack of forecasting of your department. But, as I was saying, we have many doubts as to how, when, where, for how much, at what price these purchases will be made, so we will be very, very vigilant in the development of this decree law. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.159.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Esther Niubó has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.160.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Councillor, the Government is bringing today a proposal for a decree to establish a procedure for the integration of various educational centres into the public sector of the Generalitat, a decree that must allow the Government to integrate educational centres today agreed, or today of municipal ownership, into the public sector of the Generalitat, in order to give such an answer to different questions. For one thing – and the Councillor explained very well – to satisfy the demand for public school places in certain municipalities, and above all in concrete districts of Barcelona where at these times, and for a few years now, public places of proximity are missing; bars such as the Eixample, where for a small band only available for the construction of our centres, is to say, there are not enough buildings or, in any case, could have unorbited prices, and where, in later years, there have been significant gaps in the demand for concerted schooling and a significant increase in the demand for public schooling, and so has many private holding centres..., they have opened up a crisis situation, they may have to cease their activities, and they may only be able to attend schools, with the consent of the authorities. And, on the other hand, this bill of decree makes it possible to compliment historical claims, such as that relating to the Virolai special education school, by Cornellà de Llobregat, which is of municipal title, which has for years required the transfer of title and management to the Generalitat, which is who holds the competences, with the addition that they pay specific attention to the student with special educational needs, not only from the municipality in question, but also from the region or territory around it. And, in any case, we think that the initiative intends to articulate an umbrella in order to be able to face these changes of title, that the same LEC, the same law of education of Catalonia, determines in its article 45, that it must be done by means of the law of the Parliament or, by default, of this bill of decree. We think that we cannot establish comparisons with previous political and historical moments, as when the Government of the Generality regulated the process of integration into the network of teaching public centers of various private schools, the schools of the Cepepc, which was made in 83, and which at that time assumed a massive integration of private centers into the public network of the Generality, with all its implications. We understand we're not at this very moment. We are not ahead of a process that is certainly not so thought out or so organized, nor so alone... we have doubts that it can be a progressive process, but in any case, we understand that it is a matter of giving response to different needs of very punctual schooling, to the territory, that at these times, and so on and so forth, in the face of urgency, isn't it? Therefore, it is clear that there is a certain concern or concern in certain sectors of the concerted school, but we understand that this integration of centres is always done when these manifesto willing to integrate there, and the decree is very clear in this sense. Therefore, whenever there is a request for the centre's ownership with the approval of the school board, that a mutual agreement be established between the department and the centre's ownership, whenever the need for schooling is met and, therefore, if there is a need for justified schooling, it is a complete goal of stabilization, we understand that a process of integration can be carried out. And when there's no such thing as ownership, it's clear that it's not going to happen. But instead, he also wanted to comment on an existing fear, about whether the Government would be willing to socialize losses from certain private ownership schools without any criteria, and here we also think that the project offers some acclaims, especially when it establishes that the expedient should contain a reasoned motivation of the need for schooling to guarantee the right to education, and also the corresponding economic reports: the cost of the teaching staff and non-docent, of administration and services, operating expenses, you must be contracted for this function, on the legal situation, works and investments in furniture and equipment, taxes, debts, etc., if you are sure that you have also wanted to have required some higher technical criteria, at the expense of the economics. But in any case, we do want to highlight some cautions in the text. We understand that this decree does not intend to expropriate or convert all the agreed schools into public – it is not true – nor does it seek that the contributors, among all, therefore, save the finances of certain centers that have suffered a flood of pre-registrations and materials in the last few years and that face difficult times or problems of future viability. And, therefore, made the acclaim, welcome follow the proposal if it serves to compliment these historical demands and warrants more than justified of this Parliament – above all speaking of Cornellà –, and also guaranteeing the right of the student to a comprehensive and quality education. And, on the other hand, to satisfy this demand for public places, which is currently not adequately met in the vicinity, which generates increases in rates that are not desired many times – we have denounced it – or also the appearance of ballots that end up distorting the proper functioning of many centers in the affected areas. And if more than that on the road we can strengthen the public network of public education centres owned by the Generality, we think we are helping to strengthen the public education service in this country and, therefore, from my group, we support it. What do we care, though, about this text? In the first place, therefore, we were certainly concerned about the press before the drafting of this decree, because we feared that it would not be enough at the time to establish the criteria for which a centre may be subject to a change of ownership; or, in other words, it might have been better to have defined the criteria on the basis of which the department will have to decide on a request for a change of ownership of a concerted centre, for example, to avoid future arbitrariness. Secondly, and although we appreciate positively that the draft decree passed by the Joint Committee a few weeks ago, we do believe that it would be important for the local administration to make any kind of contribution when a centre in its territory wants to join the Generality's ownership network; and, if we are talking about a municipal or joint ownership centre, to establish the possibility of approval by the municipal ple, in order to urge this process of integration; that decisions should always be co-responsible. And, thirdly – and perhaps that's what we're most concerned about – is the Government's criteria for making the staff of these titular centres subject to change of title, both teaching and professional..., administrative staff and servants; that it should not be established as required by the interlocutory with the union representation in the transfer of staff from one titular to another, with the complexity that if we talk about municipal workers, a municipal titular centre, we talk about state officials. We are also concerned about the situation in which non-definite staff could remain in the private centres that pass to the ownership of the Generalitat, or what will happen to educational staff who do not have a direct translation to the Generalitat staff and who, therefore, agree with this bill of law, do not even have guaranteed the negotiation of their future work. And that is why we demand that the Government, please, take into account the unions in each case, in order to maintain this need for social concertation, interlocution in the face of the conflicts that will, of course, be found at the front in each centre affected by a change, to ensure that this recognition of the rights of all workers, in the framework of the current legislation, and we hope that, as the adviser gave his intervention, he will be able to work in this sense with the unions in order to ensure as much as possible the stability of the staff. And, therefore, despite these concerns, which, as I said, satisfy us, in some way, so the words or give us a certain guarantee the words of the councillor in this Faristol, other considerations which we have also taken into account at the time of evaluating the validation of this decree are the agility, the reduction of terms, which can be used to extend the offer of educational equipment, public school places, which can assume that this integration of private ownership centres in the Generality network, above all respects the creation of new centres through new constructions, that in the band of their cost..., or for example the inconvenience of bars for, also, the quality of educational assistance. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of an update and clarification of the criteria for which an educational centre of municipal or private title may become public title, of the title of the Generalitat, convinced of its convenience due to the need for timely and justified schooling, of the lack of sufficient public places of proximity – we must reshape it – and, therefore, that the Government of the Generalitat also assumes the management and ownership of municipal centres that pay special attention to students with special educational needs, much necessary to the territory, but which responds to a clearly autonomous competence. And for all this, and because we understand that it can contribute to this enrichment of the public education network and, at the same time, not pose a threat to third parties in terms of legal insecurity, we will vote in favour of the validation of this decree. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.161.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Congresswoman Susana Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.162.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Counselor Bargalló began his task as counsel with the commitment to fight against school segregation, and also opened the door to equip, lastly, a legal framework that allows this conversion from the network of schools to the public network. Now we just feel like he's still in this position, too. I mean, we're even here, okay, we totally agree. Also, as you know, in the city of Barcelona we have already started precisely this process to convert two concerted centres to the public network, we believe that it is necessary to put this legal mark, because also, and as you know, we also believe that school segregation is a problem of the first order of our education system and that we should put all available resources there. And we also believe that school segregation has a lot to do with the system of concerted schools. Still, we believe that this proposal that brings us today, that it is certainly necessary and necessary to do it now and to do it in this way, could have been a little more brave, could have already come framed in a strategy clearer than how this process of advancing towards public school from the concerted school should have been. We have found that there is no reference to the objective that we think should be the norm, that it is precisely to strengthen and expand the public network of the Generality, before an unequivocal increase in demand, as you yourself have raised in your intervention. We see that the conditions under which the centres can comply with the regulations are insufficient, since now they do not make it very clear that other centres are willing to expand the public sector. We deduce that it is a rule that responds to a situation created in concrete form for some concerted centres that are found before the immediate closure; that it is an emergency measure that demands that parallelly it is possible to develop a more strategic law, a law that can be used to extend this process of conversion from the network of concerted schools to the public school. Not all aspects relating to the working and professional conditions of the faculty or staff involved may have been resolved at these centres, and we would also like to expect that there will be relevant consultations with the unions and with the representatives of workers and workers. We don't think we can go on taking the debate that we have to put on the table and that it goes much further than if the Education Department can or can't take over the ownership of the concerted centres themselves. We believe that what we are debating is the current system of duality between the public and concerted network, that we believe it is a determining factor in the very high school segregation that exists in Catalonia and that we believe it tempts against the principle of equity in education. And, besides, it's relevant to debate it at a time when public demand does not stop growing, and, while it's already over the deal, the Department of Education continues to plan the places that meet this reality. The dual educational network causes institutional segregation; it is the starting point of a conceptually discriminatory system, based on the purchasing power of families and, in some cases, on cultural axes such as religion. Public and concerted structural division is a model that uses, legitimizes, naturalizes and stores other segregations of natural difference, such as now social class ghettos, the pedagogical line, culture, capacity or gender. With the support of the concert, the school and public money are used to institutionalize social segregation and inequality of opportunity. The election freedom mantra is used to justify payments with public money from any schooling and to finance, therefore, values that may often be contrary to phone values or that pass through; for example, if publicly supported schools are in essence inclusive or if they actually educate in accordance with the principles of co-education. The public school, which employs 80_percent of students with special needs, continues to paint a progressive structural disinvestment; the concerted one, in change, continues to receive more public money every time. To the 2017 presupposition proposal, while the public parties were 23.58_per_cent lower than the 2010 figures, the concerts not only returned to the pre-retailed figures but surpassed them in 5_millions. The demand is not only ours, counselor; the majority entities of public education have been demanding progressive conversion into concerted centres for some time now. We have precedents, such as the College of Schools for the Catalan Public School. The school has to perform a major function in society to ensure equal opportunities and social cohesion, and segregation only replicates the patterns of inequality that exist in society between our school. This is why we need to work and guarantee for an innovative public school that guarantees structural quality and equal opportunities and the same educational quality for everyone. And the only school that can do this right now is the public school, because it's the school that works in values like heterogeneity, social diversity, plurality of thinking, direct democracy to school bodies, universal access without economic barriers and social transformation. We will give a critical yes to this decree, but we ask them to courageously place us all to work for this reduction of the system of concerted networks and to strengthen the public school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.163.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.164.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, well, we will vote in favour of validating this decree. We would already like it to be a decree of nationalization of private centers, which is difficult at these times because we are not yet a state – I hope it will all come. We'd already like it if it weren't for a social decree – I don't think it's the government's intention. But if we don't think it goes on the right path as the answer, still punctual, limited and partial, to a difficult problem, to a problem of foundations, such as the lack of public school places above all in certain territories and school areas, such as Barcelona. Obviously, what we have is the emphasis on this, on this problem, on the problem of public places. And this makes it clear that what is obviously a larger public investment than close to 6 per cent and which allows us to enjoy a teaching system, a public education system, universal and free throughout the population, without any exclusion. And in this sense – I'm sure you already know – we invite you to look at Portugal in this case; it's a place where you don't look very well, but in this case I think you should keep it as a reference to the best educational models that are being built in Europe at these times. And it is precisely an educational model that bets on a strong, a very strong investment in public education, a public school, free, democratic, a secular school, which is the best instrument to fight against school segregation and social segregation, and which has in its objectives that are withdrawn or re-suited to concerts in all private centres convising in a school area where public places are still available. This will probably promote a movement of nearly two thousand students from the concerted centres to the public centres. And it seems to us that this is on the right track. Therefore, what we would like to see is that this public policy of the Generalitat is not left in this timely response that today represents this decree, but that this decree is an open door to a new recourse, to a new path to this public and universal system that must contemplate a progressive reversal of the private system and concerted towards the public system. And, therefore, what we want is for us to move forward in a law – in a law – that in this country we definitely promote, push and rule this step, this return from the concerted system to the public system, because it seems to us, as we have discussed and we have always said, that this is the best way to fight against school segregation and social segregation. We have had occasion to discuss this in the proposed plenary to propose the motion that we presented following the inquiry, in which we say that the problem of school segregation is a central problem in our country and that the educational model that enshrines the LEC and that you promote and manage it only increases it and promotes it, with a great diversity of schools, between the same public system a great diversity of educational models, which, more concerted and private ones and those that secrete by sex and are elites, sets up an educational market, a genuine educational market, which, together with the freedom of choice of the centre, does not actually distribute the population in an equal way between the different educational centres and territories, without the distribution being made available to the public. So, if we're going this way, this is good for us. Despite that, we have some questions. We don't want this decree to be used to rescue poorly managed private schools, with poor management. Let's hope this isn't like this; we'll get old. And on the other side we also have some doubts, some questions for what makes this decree want to solve some work questions. We invite them, we insist, to talk to the unions. It seems to us that it is very important to clarify which routes will mark this transition, this staff subrogation – of the teacher, of the non-teacher, of which it will work, of which it is not, of all the staff of these schools. It seems to us that it must be a subrogation that guarantees absolutely all the labor rights, social, accumulated, all the historical rights of these workers and workers, so that this does not suppose any hardship for them and for them. So, that is a measure that is not punctual, that I opened the door for us to discuss a new draft law of reversal of the concerted model to the public model and that allows us to really start a certain, solid and credible way in the fight against school segregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.165.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Daniel Serrano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.166.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, yesterday he commented on his appearance, when he explained to us his priorities for the future, that it would be good if he focused on the priorities of the present. And, in this case, the decree that brings us here today for validation deals with priorities of the past. It has been a long time since the situation in some municipally owned schools had to be resolved, and today this decree seems to finally give way to that situation. I will refer – previously mentioned – to the Virolai school in Cornellá. I was a councilman in Cornellá and I know perfectly well, along with the councilman of the CUP, who was also a councilman there, in the city..., and we know perfectly well the situation of that school – I don't know if you've had the opportunity to visit the – and the urgent needs they had, with a student profile that, in addition to specifying a specific education, many of them were in wheelchairs, and the needs that the school had. And the needs that the school had because it was a peculiar school of municipal ownership, therefore, it was not part of the public network of the Generalitat de Catalunya, and that, as a result, the Generalitat did not assume its financing and the City of Cornellá, so it did well what it could. And, therefore, the needs of that school were many and very quiet. Therefore, this decree we believe can provide a solution to situations that, we insist, were genuinely cumbersome. And the decree opens the possibility that this type of schools of municipal ownership, not only of Cornellá, but that there are other schools of these characteristics, may, if requested by the municipalities and supramunicipal entities, be part of the public network of the Generalitat of Catalonia to take care of what is to be taken over, and it is to finance the public services that correspond, which are competence, which are within its competence, in this case, of teaching, of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Moreover, this decree law will also allow, if private centers in a complicated financial situation believe that the viability of the project can be realized through the public network..., because it is a possibility that we believe it can be interesting. I also tell you, with the advice in your hands, let's see how that step from a private center to the public network of the Generalitat de Catalunya is managed and what that educational project will be about, which we are worried about. And, therefore, in that sense we will also follow you up specifically, because I am very afraid that, in addition to being part of the public network of the Generalitat de Catalunya, it will be part of the indoctrination network of public schools of the Generalitat de Catalunya. I believe that there is enough in Catalonia to integrate new schools in this regard. But we want to see the positive aspects of the decree, and that is why we are going to vote in favour of it. However, we are also concerned about the situation in which staff may remain. It is true that the teaching staff, therefore, well, seemed quite well channeled, the final situation of the same; we are somewhat more concerned about the situation of non-teaching staff, especially those coming from private institutions. There we ask you for an effort to respect the rights of these workers as well. But we believe, I insist, that the decree gives way to an unjust situation that occurred above all in the centers of municipal ownership, and we believe that if it is applied rigorously, if it is applied without arbitrariness and if it is also applied in a manner..., speedily, because it has not been realized in how long, since the request, therefore, it can be realized that integration in the public network of the Generalitat, but if it is applied, I insist, rigorously and honestly, we believe that the decree is a good instrument to solve the situation of some schools of municipal ownership or of supra-municipal entities. Therefore, in this regard, we will vote in favour of the validation of the decree. Thank you very much, Mr President, Counsellor, Members and Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.167.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Bernat Sole's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.168.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, counsel, deputies, deputies..., before anything else, Mr. Martín Barra, when you have made reference to the possible or hypothetical inaction of the different governments of the Generality, well, although we certainly do not agree, we could come to discuss it, but do not use the example..., to put it out of the inaction of the governments of the Generality, do not set for example the action of the governments of the State, because the only one that has been able to do during these last few years is to pass three laws of education, and I believe that the day before today they have not agreed; therefore, I do not take the example of the Government of the State. Precisely, this past you said this very Parliament joined the act of commemoration of the two years of the approval of the Law of Education of Catalonia, a law that was the fruit of consensus and that allowed for a robust legal framework beyond the different legislatures and the corresponding governments; a law that probably improved but already laid the foundations of an educational model based on the universal right of education under the mark of diversity and equity; a law that in its preamble defines education as the foundational reality of all the national community and at the same time as the main factor in the generation of human capital, which contributes to the growth of social capital, becoming an element of social and cultural cohesion through the medium of equality. It is precisely this law, and not those of the State, that establishes that all people have a right to a quality education and to access it on equal terms, and it is the same Generality that has to establish this model of public interest education and which also guarantees these rights. In fact, if we review our country's past education, we can prove that the Government of Catalonia has taken responsibility for education far from its history, and that what we are debating today, this decree that we are debating today, and, if it goes to pass, already has some legislative precedents in 1983 when Law 14/1983 came into force, regulating the process of integration into the network of twelve public centers of various private escorts. So we've got a history. Now, thirty-six years later, with a very different social reality, but with the same concept of education, understood as the forced door to personal realization and to the progress of the collection and lever of overcoming the personal, social, economic and cultural conditions at the origin, it is when a new legislative regulation allows for the passage of some concrete choices to the generality's ownership network; a decree law that will allow those choices that so choose and complement it with a series of requirements established for the Department of Education can become part of the public network of educational centres. In fact, this change of ownership will only take place if all and all of the requirements set out in this new decree are given. A first request: the change of ownership will only take place when there is a need for schooling. It is clear that all public schools must respond to the demand of a town, city or city. And it is precisely this need for schooling that justifies making this change. But not only that, but the school likely to have this change of title has to perform a social function at the place where it is located, it is to say that the characteristics of its student board follow the same characteristics that a public school would have located in that same place. A_second required: the existence of consensus throughout the educational community, from the same school holder to the Education Department, but also with the gathering of the assembly of the municipality in question. And here I think Niubó makes reference: it is obvious that there must be the consent of the educational community, and, even though it is not required in cases where the assembly does not hold it, it will always be good that there is a consensus at the municipal level. It is obvious that the assemblies play and must continue to play a role in education, and more so in the case of primary schools, where the local administration assumes a good part of the operating and maintenance expenses, and not only for this movement, but in some cases it is the same as the head of the school, the fruit of the impulse that at the time allowed to have an educational centre in a municipality or territory and that today this same educational centre already gives response to an area more than that of the same municipality. We have examples, which today the institutes that at the time were built to give an exit to a given municipality, today, do a function at the territorial level or at the regional level. And, finally, a third requirement: the education center in question must complete with a series of technical requirements compatible with the requirements established by the Education Department. Just yesterday at the committee, therefore, we discussed these educational spaces and the possible requirements to be fulfilled, and the company, I think, of Ciutadan also talked about prefabricated modules in solars that decide to locate them the Department of Education; tell them that not always these prefabricated modules..., in fact, in many cases, do not end up in definite solars. These necessary elements necessary for the change of title are resolved once again, which means considering a series of basic elements to preserve the proper functioning of the school or institute. In this sense, the decree also establishes the employment status of the staff and the corresponding working conditions. At the same time, students already enrolled in the educational centre in question will have reserved the place to the centre for their own courses. In fact, this will allow to consolidate the offer of school places in a concrete territory and avoid compromised situations in which some line of the school can remain without educational concert and, for this reason and in order to avoid possible closures of these schools that have become a significant part of the network of educational centers of the country, that can maintain its educational function. Other elements that may be motivated by these changes of ownership are the difficulty of finding only public or economic resources for the construction of new centres. There is reference to the same advisor, which is a decree that makes it a more efficient system precisely when there is an economic recession or economic difficulties or lack of assumptions. There would be no lasting sense of a major investment in a municipality for the construction of a new school or institute when the same municipality already has an educational centre that meets the requirements described above. In fact, it is this mechanism that will give immediate response to requests for schooling in a municipality or territory. The increase in demand for public places on the part of families – and this is evidence – also makes the Education Department set up mechanisms to adapt to this new reality. In no case does this decree mean a space invasion of the concerted school; it has been said and I repeat: in no case does this decree mean a space invasion of the concerted school. On the contrary, what they claim this decree is to give continuity to those centers which, for various reasons, cost to pull forward and which the holders of iniciaries, such as now co-operatives of pairs or teachers or teachers, or the same together, is thought to be no longer the owners of them. Finally, for the purpose of the definitive title, the centres can be directly owned by the Government of the Generalitat or, in an intermediate step, by the same Generalitat that houses these buildings. It will be the propitious elements of each situation that will make you decide one option or another option. And, in any case, to clear the doubts of the representative of the People's Party – I also said it yesterday – if necessary, we will install deep loop detectors at the entrance of the schools. In the pateix. Today there are already several assemblies and collections that have asked the Department of Education for this change, and there are already many agreements that the department has reached with these schools and municipalities – setting the example of Cornellà. In fact, some of these will already come into operation with the new title starting from the beginning of the next course. In any case, from the Republican Parliamentary Group, we celebrate that it has been brought and approved to govern this decree; we fully share the need and the solution that has been given to it. Looking for options, looking for alternatives and better from a concrete situation is work and responsibility for a government, and in this case, the government has done it, and the fact that there is a consensus in this validation means that the work has been done well. For this reason, we will support this decree, hoping that the rest of the groups – and, if I'm not mistaken, so it will – will also support it. And we also ask that it is not processed in the form of law but that its approval is now. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.169.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, it is the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr Xavier Quinquilla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.170.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, well, the law decree we present today for its validation has three important elements that I want to degenerate. The first, he said, represents, in the first place, giving compliments to the Law of Education and thus complete its normalized deployment, as is retrospect in its article 45. But from here there are two important, substantial, elements that have already been said. In any case, I will try to recapitulate some concepts and, in any case, to spell out some aspects that seem relevant to me. On the one hand, this need for rationalisation of what is the public network in its conjunction; a public network that has very clear references: of a band, the Department of Education in everything that refers to compulsory teachings, but the local ones in what refers to other types of teachings, such as bressol schools, artistic teachings, etc. In this sense, these references and these general scripts have some exceptionalities, which, in the case of the municipalities, are therefore reflected, in a very concrete case, in the city of Barcelona, in thirteen centres, thirteen schools of children and primary education, thirteen in total, which are municipal; in the rest of the territory there are also five schools of children's and primary education and five secondary schools also municipal education; circumstances which need to be addressed, which need to be given out, precisely because there is a demand for the same in the local areas in this sense, as well as in the field of special education, with fifteen centres of municipal title as well. Therefore, the opportunity and the need for this integration between what is the public sector of the department is a necessity that it should attend, and that it should also attend to the sense that generates opportunities, opportunities from the point of view of optimization of resources – human resources, material resources, training environment, etc. – as it can also generate better management in the system, also in the best of the cooperative work between the same system, and solve concrete cases and cases that are actually in place for a long time and that there should be a way out. Reference has been made, for example, to the case of the special Virolai education centre, Cornellà de Llobregat; it is a paradigmatic example. The other substantial element addressed by the decree is precisely to address the lack of educational equipment in some territories or educational areas originating, therefore, from one band, because of an obvious increase in the significance of students in concrete areas of the territory, caused by the mobilization of families, by the recent migration, by birth tips, also by fluctuations – there has been talk – and changes of trend in public demand concerted in locations and very concrete areas – and then also by a reference – and, thirdly, by a lack of public only in very concrete places, especially in areas particularly densely populated, such as Barcelona; it has referred to the neighbourhood of the Eixample, with really urgent and necessary examples. Therefore, we need tools like this, which facilitate the rationalization and optimization of educational equipment, just to correct these imbalances between the offer and the demand for school places. And at times we understand that it creates an opportunity to optimize and use pre-existing educational infrastructures that contribute precisely to mitigating this lack of educational equipment, to reduce the number of pre-fabricated modules, especially those that have a structural origin; it also results in an opportunity to reduce budgetary expenditure – we are opting for pre-existing resources–, and it also avoids the cessation of centers with the consequences that this can result from. It's about, so, and I share it, an opportunity to strengthen not just the public system, but the system in its conjunction, huh? , from its globality, from its reality, facing the multiple problems that exist in these changes, certainly, of tendency between public and concerted school, I insist, in very concrete places of the territory. I say this because, if we look at general data, the trend is fairly stable: about 31 percent of children and primary school students are in concerted schools; 35 percent in secondary school. They are data, more or less, that have remained stable during the last five courses. But certainly in concrete places there are some imbalances that need to be addressed and that need to be corrected; some imbalances caused, by one band, and that need to be recognised, for the better quality of the public system. And, in this sense, there is a prestige factor that needs to be recognized and put into value. But there is a fundamental and determining element, which is the economic factor: the public school..., and especially in times of crisis, and for families, therefore, in sectors let's say more disadvantageous, it is obvious that the full gratuity offered in the public network is a determining element that also produces these imbalances between one network and the other. And, therefore, I do not think we can disconnect these circumstances from the approach or having this problem of infra-financing present, which will obviously need to be addressed with other ways as for example, and it will be time, the Decree of Educational Concerts. And in this sense I want to emphasize that the main segregating element is precisely the economic factor. We can't avoid it; if we do, we cheat on the lonely. And, therefore, full co-responsibility for the entire public and private system, but, yes, it is, also from equity in a weapon, on a phone book like finance. Therefore, we are ahead of a decree which must allow us to straighten out, rationalize, optimize educational resources, a decree which must allow us greater flexibility of the system in its conjunction, in order to address conjunctural and structural problems arising from changes in the demand for school places; a decree which is specially designed and designed to act in a micro-form, i.e., from proximity, to work in an artisanal way and to solve concrete problems in an eminently local manner. It is not, it is not his spirit to act macro on the system; it is not about and it is not the intention to transform the system but to give solutions to concrete problems. Therefore, a decree that has to become a useful and necessary tool to solve problems in the short term, as the councillor has said, urgency to address in the present, but that is obviously not the philosophical stone. The philosophical stone we all know at this moment is to face and solve, as I said before, the problem of infra-financing. And in this sense I would also like to subscribe, to make my own the words used by the councillor last week, with the motive of the anniversary of the Catalonian Education Law, calling upon that consensus, a consensus that also today..., a broad consensus that will also make it easier for us to bring this decree before the law, a consensus that in any case we also call upon us to build it further beyond the realm of education and precisely for the sake of education, but also for the sake of the country, and it is possible to draw a phonative tool like the tool of assumptions, essential to be able to approach and to hold the philosophical stone, that all wish. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.171.0	We are calling for a vote, once the debate is over. [[Martin Eusebio Barra López asks to speak.]] Yeah, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.172.0	For allusions, President. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.173.0	Yes, very briefly, because the deputy Bernat Soler..., has made reference to that I had not referred to the different changes that have occurred in Spanish legislation. Well, I thought it was time to talk about the government decree this time. But, look, our party – and everyone knows this – has criticized the instability of Spanish legislation on these issues; we always talk about a national pact for education. Anyway. But at least one of those changes in Spain should not have been very bad; you voted in favour of the LOE, and your governing partners too, which were then called Convergence. Maybe some of those changes weren't so bad. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.174.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote. As you know, according to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, as long as we are voting on the validation or not of the law decree, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of this validation and the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. The vote will therefore begin. The result is the following: 133 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. Therefore, with the result, the Decree Law 10/2019_is validated. According to Rule 158.4 of the Rules, and once this decree has been ratified, I have to ask the chamber whether there is any parliamentary group that wants to process this decree as the bill. [[Pause.]] Don't you? So it remains, this Decree 10/2019, validated and will not be dealt with as law. [[Greetings.]] We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.175.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Let's take back the Ple. [[Proposal for a free law on textbooks and curricular material (totality debate)]] [[202-00005/12]] We resume with the fifth point of the order of the day, which is the debate of totality on the Proposition of Law of Gratuity of Text Books and Curriculum Material. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the first paragraph of the paragraph of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group is intended to present this legislative initiative. Therefore, Mrs Sonia Sierra has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.176.0	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon to all the Members, the Councillor and the people who are seeing us. The Spanish Constitution stipulates that basic education is compulsory and free of charge. If we want public education to be truly free, we have to make it easier for textbooks to be free. Most countries in our environment, as well as some autonomous communities, have different mechanisms to ensure that textbooks are free of charge. This is a claim that parents'associations have been making for many years. And it's normal that this is the case, because every year... having to spend about €300 per child each course is an expense that for many families is very difficult to assume. And in other cases these families cannot bear that expense, which is why they send their children to school without books, I imagine with all the pain of their heart. My last years as a teacher in a public institute coincided with the toughest moments of the crisis, with which I have had many students without books in the classroom. I've come to have classes where half of the students didn't have books. They had to be put in two in two in order to follow the subject, and in the event that they failed students who had the textbook, we didn't even have a book for each of them, or leaving those that sometimes exist for the institutes. For me it was sometimes difficult to organize classes, but that was not the hard thing; the hard thing for me was to imagine how those students could bring up to date the subject, how they could study, without books, especially when they were high school second students, who then had to face a test of access to college. The truth is that that experience marked me, and that is what has made me work so hard to present in different ways, with different parliamentary initiatives, the option that Catalan students can have textbooks for free. Of course, this bill is not mine, it's from my party, it's from Citizens. It is a bill that we have tabled in different autonomous communities, and in some of them we have already made textbooks free of charge. And if I defend with all my heart, with that tribandred heart that we have, any proposal of my party, because it is, all the more so, because, as I say to you, it was very important for me to see that students were studying without books, they had to follow the subjects without books. And it was a really, really painful experience for me. My experience, therefore, I share it here, but of course it is not significant. What is significant are the different reports, such as that of Save the Children, or the analyses that are made of the PISA tests, which show that here, in Catalonia, academic results depend on the socio-economic situation of families. What does that mean? It means that the Catalan education system, which the Catalan school does not guarantee social cohesion. Because social cohesion in education is not about studying in a single language, as nationalists always want us to believe. When we talk at international level about social cohesion in an educational system, what we are talking about is the quality of the system, equity and equal opportunities. If there is neither equity nor equal opportunities, there is no social cohesion. And, unfortunately, we have many indicators that tell us that in Catalonia there is no social cohesion: we are the autonomous community with the most school failure among students of immigrant origin; we are the second autonomous community that most segregates, and we are the third in which academic results depend more on the socio-economic situation of families. In each of these three indicators I have given, it affects to a greater or lesser extent the lack of access to textbooks. It is clear that not being able to access textbooks is one of the greatest ways to segregate students. That is why we wanted to include the free textbook in the Pact against School Segregation, but they did not. It seems difficult to understand why, in a pact against segregation, one of the most important aspects of segregation is not included, unless in reality it was not a pact against segregation, rather it was a cosmetic measure so that the syndic of heaviness could justify his release and continue to travel the world at the expense of our money. [[Some applause.]] Families with economic needs are precisely those that need the support of the Administration most so that their children can study on equal opportunities. And denying them free textbooks what it's supposed to be is deepening, it's widening that social gap, it's widening that social segregation. This is why Citizens propose that all students can have free textbooks through a loan system. This has countless advantages. I will quote four: the first, assumes that all pupils are going to attend school on equal terms. Secondly, it is a very important saving for families. Thirdly, this loan system has added value, and is that students learn to take responsibility for the common goods. And finally, now that there is so much talk about the environment and sustainable development, this is a measure to promote sustainable development, because books have to last at least four promotions, and that, therefore, the trees of the planet will thank us very much. The truth is that it is hard to understand that, with so many advantages – and I believe that no inconvenience – the separatist parties put an amendment to us all; an amendment to all that they have removed not because they are so kind, but simply because they were left alone. In fact, we were already denied this proposal of law in the previous legislature, and the truth is that the justification gave something, huh? I'll remind you, so that we don't forget what the spokesman for Republican Left said, at that time integrated into Junts for Yes. I quote literally: "A system of prestec regulated by law like that which proposes consequences for the editorial world. If Catalan publishers cannot survive, they will be replaced by state publishers, which – who has no doubt? –, as the maximum concession, make translations of state contents. I already know that they do not care about people, but I would put at risk the adequacy to the specific contents of the Generality and, above all, to the teaching methodologies and models of the Catalan school, which are significantly different from Spanish, with the risk added that also the editions of children's and young people's literature are not possible to maintain and that the Catalan authors may also be replaced by works originally written in other languages. Terrible, terrifying! They had to veto the proposition of law, because that was a scandal. [[Some applause.]] That is – and this is literal, and you can go and find the session log – separatist parties are much more concerned about the publishing business than Catalan families. Beyond that the argument is absurd, because, obviously, in other parts of the world there are free textbooks and there are also editorials, it is obviously an excuse for a bad payer. The most serious, the most dangerous, for Esquerra Republicana, is that it could be studied with books published in the rest of Spain. Oh, my God! Of course, then they get shocked when we tell them there's indoctrination in the textbooks. And then already the summum of horror: imagine that the children end up reading, I know, Harry Potter or Manolito Gafotas, which have not originally been written in Catalan. Terrible! They had to veto the bill. We, in the previous proposal of law, when we present it, attach an excellion with the cost of the measure for all the students of Catalonia. This time we have not done so, among other things because the councillor constantly repeats that there are many schools that do not use textbooks, so we should discount that figure, that we do not know it, and also all those concerted who decide not to add to this option. What I'm going to do is point out where we could get that money from. Look, Mr. Quim Torra charges 150,000 euros a year, and Mr. Pere Aragonès, 115,000 euros. They, like the councillors, charge more than the president of Spain. The truth is that it is impossible for me to understand why a president of an autonomous community and its advisers charge more than the president of the country to which they belong. But I still find it harder to understand why we have to have 216 high-ranking positions that also cover more than the country's president. And, in addition, we have in total five hundred high-ranking positions, which cost us nothing more and nothing less than 36_million_of_euro. With those 36_million_of_euro plus a slash on the president's salary and the counselors we would have to pay those textbooks. Then we have to choose. What do we want: high - ranking, paid - for, or children of Catalonia with free textbooks? I've got it very clearly. As I said, as all parties intended to vote against this amendment as a whole, they have finally withdrawn it. That does not mean that we believe, because we are not naive, that we are willing to carry out this proposal of law, because we do not believe their goodness, because they have manifested themselves too often against all the children of Catalonia being able to have free textbooks to believe us that they will now facilitate things during the processing. But just as you are going to be committed not to go ahead, we, who are more and better, are going to be committed to go ahead. And we will be very committed to ensuring that they do not engage in parliamentary filibusterism so that this bill cannot be dealt with. Because we are committed to ensuring that all Catalan children can study on equal terms. Above all, we defend freedom and equality, and there is nothing more egalitarian than that all pupils can access their schooling under the same conditions. That is why it is a great pride for me to be able to say that, thanks to Citizens, all Catalan students will be able to have free textbooks. If this is done, I am convinced that my passage through this Parliament will have been worth it. That is, we will be working to ensure that there is genuine justice, that there is freedom and that all children can study on equal terms. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.177.0	Then, as soon as the speech has been withdrawn to the totality presented, we will open a turn of intervention from the rest of the parliamentary groups to express their position. And, in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.178.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Members and Members, first of all, thank Ciuta for the opportunity to debate the freeness of textbooks and, indirectly, the freeness of education or, which is the same, the right to education, which is a right which is contrary to the Spanish Constitution – in its article 27.4, when it says that basic education is compulsory and free – to the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia – which also insists that "education is free in all compulsory stages", not to mention the different existing educational laws, from the LEC to Catalonia until the LOE – of 2006. Well, despite the fact that they are presenting today a text that certainly wouldn't be what my group did – and during the intervention I will explain why, what we share and, in change, what others think are problematic or could be done in another way – we do have to say that we share, as I say, the final objective: this needs to guarantee the right to a quality education for everyone and to access it on equal terms, which is clearly not happening at the moment. I would like to recall a few facts which have been mentioned earlier, but which reflect very well what, in our opinion, is the main problem of education in Catalonia, which is the enormous impact that the social origin still has on the school outcomes of the students. We are from the autonomous communities where the income of the family is more conditioned by the academic performance of the student, an indicator that is key and that poses this lack of equity yet of the education system. We have data from the OECD that say that the social origin in Catalonia weighs more today on school results than it did until 2003. Other data refer to a very high correlation between early school leaving and low-income family students. And, therefore, we understand that access to education in equal conditions is key to guaranteeing this universal right to education. And that's why it's also important to address access to text books and other teaching materials, whether it's buying aid, loan systems, or reusing. And we give different materials because it is true that today, in the band of text books..., the different learning processes are also changing. In many centers they are reviewing, and, therefore, they are incorporating us teaching materials that go far beyond the traditional textbook. And, therefore, internet access is also facilitating other types of digital material as well. But, as I said, this correlation between the socio-economic level of families and the success or failure of their children in the education system in Catalonia is not a natural or accidental phenomenon that passes here, but it has to do with concrete public policies, a lack of public investment or strong compensatory policies that can explain this. For a band, we have the underfunding of public education since 2010. We all know that public spending today does not account for 3_percent of GDP. It is the lowest public investment in all of Europe, the world developed. We're far from that 6_per_cent that marked Catalonia's Education Law; we're almost... or half. And, moreover, the comparison with other autonomous communities reflects that the Government of Catalonia has sacrificed education much more than other territories of the State. And, in the band, Catalonia would be the sixth country of the whole European Union – assuming it was a country – that it had more detailed in education, together with Romania, Latvia, Bulgaria and Portugal. In the European Union, the average educational profile was 3.4; in change, Spain was 14 and a half. And, for example, we have that Spain was detailed in education four times more than in the conjunction of the European Union, and Catalonia five times more. And with one addition: in Catalonia, these educational details have not yet been reversed and we are culminating in a decade of involvement that has, therefore, implied the end of the expansion cycle that had characterized the educational expenditure to get closer to the European media. So while public investment in education decreased by almost 20_per_cent, the spending of families in education increased by almost 30_per_cent. Data reflecting direct costs: formal education, school materials, books, outputs and also extra-curricular or support expenses. And, therefore, at a time of flood of entrances to the world, these increases have been difficult to absorb for many families and have generated a very important social differentiation in access to education between the students. For all this seems very relevant to us to discuss this proposal to complete this free textbook, which we believe is the competence of the Generality. And, therefore, we will not object to its processing, but we hope, in any case, that we can enrich the law's proposal during a period of questioning, a period of listening to the expert persons, the correspondents, if it actually pulls forward this period of questioning, so that we will vote in favour of it. But of course, no one escapes that everything that we can begin to process today, this gratuity, this guarantee of the right to education, also has a lot to see with the government's tickets, and that means taxation. And we all know also the taxation that Ciutadans proposes; surely it is the same or it is very much as the People's Party proposes, to which the old Convergence proposes, to which even at these times it is proposed Republican Left, because we have seen it in the process..., well, in the debate on assumptions, which they did not approve, but we held this debate, because every time they talk about reducing taxes, therefore, they want to cut down on services for middle classes and workers. We, on the other hand, propose progressive fiscal policies to advance and consolidate rights, and it seems to us that it is time to value this proposal as well. But, as I said, from my group, from the Socialist Group and Unites per Avançar, we did manifest ourselves on various occasions in favour of recovering the assumptions parties of 2010 for the reuse of textbooks and other materials. And, in fact, in the later presuppositionary exercise that approved this chamber in 2017 we included a slogan, which was approved, which urged the Government to return a game for the reuse of textbooks and also to call for aid for the acquisition of textbooks, complementary teaching material, computer science, for primary and secondary school students in public centers. Now, for a variety of reasons, therefore, this Government has not given a compliment to many of the provisions of this law – among these, which it commented on – but in any case it seems important to us to insist that, even without a specific law as proposed by Ciutadans, this Government would indeed have the legal and financial instruments – if it has a political will, obviously, to address this issue – as I said, by way of a presuppositionary departure to help with the acquisition of the textbooks or to encourage their reuse. So the Government and the Department of Education actually do have the tools available to facilitate this acquisition and the use of textbooks, or even to guarantee their gratuity. So much so that the 2010-2011 and 11-12 courses were published calls for this grant of help, which also coincided with funds coming from the Ministry of Education. But it is true that since 2012–13 the amount of money that has been allocated has been reduced, and at these times it is already around €4_million, and mainly destined for educational centres with very disadvantaged or very complex socio-economic contexts. And, in the government's band, which is the one who has the competence to guarantee this freeness of this material, in order to ultimately achieve the right to education, there are also other administrations that can play a role. We have the assemblies, which could certainly benefit you, could boost the work of the educational centres to promote this re-use, which we believe also promotes values – Congresswoman Sierra was commenting, right? –: the cure of a good collection, making a use responsible for this school material, respecting it to the common good, co-responsibility. And AMPAs, AFAs, must also be able to participate and engage to contribute to this reuse of books. And the school councils, determine the materials depending on the educational project of each center based on their pedagogical autonomy. Now, despite the leap of the proposal – which we have no doubt about – it is a model of creating a library in each educational centre from a prestec system, and here we do see some shadows in the current writing. First of all, we are concerned that the most vulnerable environments from the point of view of economic and social resources are also normally poor in cultural capital – families with few books at home, for example – and in these contexts we think it might be important to be able to guarantee not only the use or access to these materials through a loan system as it is proposed, but in concrete terms the acquisition of these teaching materials, lock in the books, in order to be able to dispose of it at home and promote more of this cultural capital. On the other hand, it seems to us that if we respect the autonomy of the centres – and we believe that it is to be respected – and, therefore, the decision of each management team to sort out the books, we would be talking about a multitude of materials that should in any case be renewed, more regularly, which could raise the cost of the operation a lot, to the point that we can raise up to what point the acquisition aid can be more effective than not establishing this loan system than it could end up being more expensive by the system's conjunction. We also underline some limitations of Ciutadans's proposal, in our view: the load of work that could be assumed for the management, management, management and organization of the centres; who needs to be carried out in cases where there is an inappropriate use or a non-responsible use of this material; or the questioner about who would make the purchase of these materials or books – would be the department, to the fertilizer? Would it be every center? , are the territorial services serious? – and what implications this could have. Nor is it clear to us how this system would work at the school, or, in any case, therefore, we do not see clearly that you have to go on board..., as the proposal establishes. But anyway, that's what we'd have time to do. And, finally, the special characteristics of the student with special educational needs: how to shield more the use of these materials by these students or for the student in general in much more initial cycles. Nevertheless, we reiterate our support for the processing of the proposal with the ultimate objective of sticking to this real free education, of which we are all present today, in order to guarantee the right to education, which we believe requires a different taxation. And in this case, then, we don't agree, or we don't have the same... and in this sense, we don't tank and wait, in the process, to listen to different experts, mechanisms worked in other communities or other good practices that exist around us. So, thank you very much, and we'll give you support.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.179.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it's the turn of Congresswoman Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.180.0	Thank you, President. It's been more than two years and a half since we discussed a first version of this law proposal that today presents us Citizens. Then we told them that we did not share..., I mean that we actually share the experience of the proposal, because we firmly believe in the absolute gratuity of public education, but that we do not share some of the fundamental questions in the content of that proposal, and they led us to an abstention. Most of those questions that were raised were modified, corrected, and, therefore, if we had to vote today, we would have supported the handling of this proposal. Finally, the total items have been withdrawn, and therefore will proceed to processing without even having to vote on it. It is currently estimated that families are spent at the beginning of each school year between two-cents and three-cents of euros on text books, digital licenses and curricular material. Irritating contributions from the Department of Education to the purchase of all this material have made it possible to produce, in the end, from civil society, various models of self-organisation throughout the territory: bookshelfs, loan services, joint ventures that subsidize the acquisition of this material or of these books, and, naturally, sales negotiations, second hand. We believe that this issue needs to be addressed, from public responsibility to government and with sufficient resources, so as to ensure public education, free of charge, inclusiveness and quality in terms of obviously putting resources and putting resources at the top of this model. As we say, this proposal from City is going to attack this element, and in this sense we support it. Some of the elements that made us doubt in his first version have been corrected, but, still – we have to say – there are some questions that still generate our strength and that we want to be debated on the merits during processing. I'll highlight a pair of them. One is the fact that the proposal still hinges heavily on the figure of text books. We cannot escape the reality: currently in the world of education there are many voices who doubt that the textbook should be the central axis of the methodology in the classroom. Each time there are more schools that base their pedagogical strategy, in fact, in other formats, in digital formats or interdisciplinary elements. We also believe that it will be necessary to discuss the issue of voluntary adherence to the norm and the role that this will play in the school. Everyone here knows that school segregation is the main educational problem in Catalonia in the education system. This segregation, obviously, has a very high profile in the origin of the student and especially in the social class, but it is also the result of presuppositionary and educational policies that have made it unprotective of freeness and universal access in equal conditions to public education. Let's go back to a given: the assumption that families are going to education has increased by 19_percent since the onset of the crisis, by some five hundred_euros a year, while public contributions have fallen by 11_percent to Catalonia. We defend the role of the public school as based on equal opportunities and social cohesion, and add to the complaint of the educational community that today coexists a threefold network supported with public foundations that tempts against inclusiveness and is in the origin of this segregation. A triple network of concerted school models, prestigious public school – with mostly middle classes and strong demand – and vulnerable public school – with socially stigmatized and low demand educational projects. The Observers on School Segregation, the syndic and the educational community also denounce these economic barriers in access to public school, in expenses for excursions, for colonies, for the quotas of AMPAs, to finance school materials, for works and reforms to schools... Therefore, yes, attacking the issue of the freeness of curricular material can be a good starting point to attack these economic barriers and to fight for this freeness of public education, and therefore against this segregation, but if we have done this from this careist perspective and not from the perspective of inclusive school and rights we do not know if it will be very effective, in this sense. If the rule is of voluntary adherence, we will continue to support a threefold educational network, and, although, obviously, it can be used to alleviate a little the school assumption of families, we do not believe that it is used to actually reduce school segregation. These two great doubts – or rather, if we just focus on books and performance in the fight against segregation, or the failure, sooner, at the time of doing so – but also much more procedure, how to make this system of free school material and books work, make us value that you have for work ahead of you, this proposal of law, which has resorted to better. But, obviously, it is interesting to approach him from the Parliament, and we, as a parliamentary group, will roam to do this work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.181.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.182.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, well, we will vote in favour..., go, we voted in favour – it will not be the case, because there has not been a totality – in the handling of this proposal of the law. We agree with the gratuity of textbooks, but not just books, but all the material, services and school resources, because it seems to us that the gratuity and universality of educational resources, and all this, obviously, in the framework of a unified public system, are the only way to combat inequality and school segregation. Now, said that, we also have to say that in dealing with the bill's proposal and in the debate about its contents we will discuss a lot, because, when we come into matter in the contents, as you conceive of this project, we share very little, almost anything. Therefore, we will present many papers and have much to discuss. And very quickly, to anticipate the debate, three great asides on which I think we would focus the discussion. For a song, as you put it, we think that your proposal can further encourage school segregation: it is a system of voluntary adherence and it is a system that allows an absolute diversification of models and systems for which it makes this bank of books and its management between the different school centres. Therefore, depending on the characteristics, casuistics, idiosyncrasy, opportunities and resources of each center, we will find ourselves with a differentiated system. And, of course, that's going to increase even more the differences that already exist in our country between schools. And, obviously, we know that it has a direct impact on school segregation. For another band, the financing system. Here we see, sincerely, a misapprehension, and we are bewildered, sincerely, by the proposals you make. We understand that they put in place a system of co-financing that passes through the premises of the centre, the families, private co-financing, private sponsors, which can even be customized or individualized in certain families or pupils, and various public co-financings. This generates, for a band, a model that we do not share in absolute terms. Finance must be public, it is the only way to ensure that it is a universal, universal system, and that it unifies and does not diversify the schools to our education system; but, in the band, this creates a possibility of inequalities depending on which centre goes to stop the student or how it is diverse the private finances that we cannot share in absolute. On the other hand, it gives us, frankly, the feeling that you in this proposal introduce a Trojan horse in order to introduce private sponsorship, private financing, to public centers, which we then find also as possible Trojan horse of its proposal, when they argue that the Generalitat will facilitate agreements with the private bank so that the private bank will be in charge of carrying a different accounting management system from this bank system of books. Go away, an absolute misapprehension. But you also plant, at times, fines for possible deterioration in the text material, at times that a payment of an initial quota and a maintenance quota, and, at times, a guarantee that the center will have to subscribe to so as to cover these flaws. It is to say that the book's flaws will be paid three times: the fine, the maintenance fee and the private insurance. Therefore, this seems to us to be an absolute disproposal, for which it does to the financing system. I, finally, the management system. As had been anticipated before, the fact that they had to carry a differentiated comptability, this meant an overload and a complexity to the center and department that they would say, but it seems to me that they do not correspond. On the other hand, to make it easier for the private bank to carry a differentiated accounting system for the book lender system to schools seems to us to be a barbarity. And, on the other hand, honestly, we have a lot of doubts about the model of management and coordination that you pose for what it does to the relationship that the Generality has to have with the centers on this model. Therefore, in conjunction, we cannot say that no, we agree with the gratuitousness of the text books; now, we disagree practically absolutely with the model for which you choose. Therefore, we will try, in the debate of the law proposal, that we arrive at another model, a model that really serves us for equality, for gratuitousness and to fight against school segregation through this resource of educational material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.183.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is now the return of Deputy Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.184.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, today, extra work; the plenary is especially dedicated to you, it seems. It is true that education is a right, and therefore, as such, the Administration must guarantee the necessary instruments for this right to be exercised by all families. Moreover, if it is possible, in addition to being a right..., in the case of compulsory basic education, it is an obligation of families to school their children, and therefore it is more necessary to be able to ensure that pupils in compulsory basic education can have all the necessary instruments to exercise, on equal terms, that right. So, so far we could all agree. It is also true that the instruments to guarantee this right can be diverse, and among them, it can be the adoption, in this case, of a legislative initiative. It's not news. In the Community of Madrid you are well aware that a law has been passed practically..., 95_per_cent identical to what you present here; a law which, moreover, was approved by Citizens, by the People's Party, by the Socialist Party and even by Podemos. A law that in 95 of the text presented by Citizens was approved by virtually the unanimity of the Chamber in the Community of Madrid. But, said that, and although my party supported it in the Madrid Community, I believe that passing a law in that sense might not be the most appropriate instrument. First of all, because not always to every problem – and we have already said this in the previous debate, when this initiative was brought in – one must derive from it a law, because excessive regulation, hyperregulation, is not always positive, and therefore there may be instruments that can be more effective in guaranteeing this right. And in this sense we believe that fiscal measures, and especially in Catalonia, where fiscal pressure is well known to you, fiscal measures aimed at deductions or reductions of the tax base of the IRPF could be effective measures to ensure the freeness of books, and that this right could benefit all families, not only those who school children in publicly funded centres, but all families, who really were a universal right. And, therefore, we believe that this legislative initiative, presenting positive aspects, does not guarantee that all families can benefit universally from the gratuitousness of books. Therefore, without prejudice to our agreement in the processing of this law, we believe that it is improveable. And we insist: we will participate in the legislative debate for the processing of the law, but we believe that there could be fiscal regulatory measures that would benefit, I insist, all families universally. And, therefore, the amendments that we can put forward to enrich the text by our parliamentary subgroup will be directed in that direction, in order, I insist, to make the right to education a universal right, universal for all families, and not only for those who are educated in publicly funded centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.185.0	Thank you, Congressman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament Mònica Palacín has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.186.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies and deputies, in Catalonia today there is no infant or young sun that I do not have the material necessary to follow the course in the classroom, and this is a reality. Surely – surely – we need to improve things to be able to implement the Decree of inclusiveness. I'm sure he's old enough, together with the whole education community and the administration, to bet on a non-segregating education. I am sure that the Administration must work all at once and explain or, rather, demonstrate that the difference between equality, which is what you propose today, and fairness for which the wrong department works in social justice. Despite that, lords and lords of Ciutadans, they are not still lying. It does not continue with the speech of the system's failure; it does not continue with the irresponsibility to ask for schools, institutes, human resources, ration downloads, scholarship increments, total free books, educational material, school leavings, colonies, out-of-school activities..., knowing that including with agreed assumptions among all of us we could not take it. Governance means prioritizing, it means being honest, it means above all not raising catastrophic situations; but, of course... That's exactly what it is to govern. Article 6 of the Education Law already establishes that the Education Department must adopt the necessary measures to progressively introduce the system of aids in various ways, for textbooks and other school materials, in the compulsory teaching. Catalonia, therefore, already counts on a law that establishes how to treat the impact on families of the costs of textbooks and school materials, with a system of general aid. It is a broad concept, which they know, that includes multiple possibilities, such as direct help to families or the implementation of re-use programs of text books or other. There has been a lot of talk today that we can't just focus the debate on text books, because obviously there are a lot of resources and there are a lot of different methodological systems. We have therefore come across a dual system in which individual aid to families has been combined with income motivation and grants to the centres, above all of maximum complexity, to promote re-use programmes. Therefore, it is completely unnecessary for another rule of law to rule these aspects already collided with the LEC, collided through programs. If it is not, obviously, another time, that this is to give meaning to its motivation to exist as a political party, that is to question the Catalan Education Law and load the Catalan education model. We only see it this way. Mirin, they spoke of examples, of autonomous communities. He was talking now, for example, about the law passed in Madrid. But it is that the law passed in Madrid, if we look at it, did not apply in its totality, because there are no necessary economic resources, and therefore what they have done has been done progressively and according to the income of the families. Just like most autonomous communities. They could do the self-help community rule where you help them to free books go through bookshelfs and also for help in the income of families. This premise, not capable of being independentist, contemplated that people, families, students in situations of greatest vulnerability should be helped in Catalonia. Therefore, the objective of reducing or eliminating family spending on educational material in order to facilitate access to education has to be achieved for other lives, taking into account various factors: taking into account the voluntary nature of families, yes – we do not deny that the subject of volunteering applies, they understand that it is a right, and we do not consider that this implied segregation in itself – the economic capacity of these, of families, and also – important – the autonomy of centres in determining curricular and/or educational materials according to their project of centre. We could give you a lot of examples. We will work on the question of the law, and therefore, as a parliamentary group, we will put these proposals on the table, such as the empowerment of the use of free materials, the empowerment of collaborative networks between centres and teachers, systems of help in the subject of already commercialized educational materials, applying concepts such as the light word, which is made in addition to the second quarter book, applied also to the acquisition of the same books according to the beginning of the quarters in order not to make the acquisition of these books so expensive. I repeat again: because we must respect the will of families. Going into concrete terms into this text, and repeating that the autonomy of the centre is fundamental, one has to take into account the diversity of the concept of educational material. We make a proposal..., that is, the title of this proposal of the law says free text books and curriculum material. We understand that this title already, to begin, as proposed in the position, would change it, because the curriculum material always has confusion for which it exclusively makes to the text books, which marks, say, the text book; in change, the educational material is much more open and puts in value the new spaces, the new methods, the new layouts that, the fruit of the effort and the innovative will of the centers, is applying. Other topics, too, respect the articulate. Other parliamentary groups have not mentioned this, which is precisely why we have doubts that I will put on the table in a moment's time, as now the change of opinion of some parliamentary groups respects its own proposal of 2016. In Article 5 of Chapter II, when they refer to the responsibility for the purchase of books, they talk about the rebuttal contributions by third parties. We're also worried about these third-party rebuttals, because they'll have to explain to us who you're counting on influencing the country's public education. Because, whatever the formula that allows families to assume the costs that the education of children and young people entails, it is clear that a significant part of the printed books and educational materials come to the small bookstores of our country, that they remain thanks to school campaigns and are a focus of culture and commerce of proximity and social network. I, in accordance with Article 6 of Chapter III, say that the concerted centres are those which express the will to incorporate themselves there. We think that it must be the students, the families, the ones who express this right or this will to integrate into the preschool system of books, because it cannot be deduced automatically that, if a student of the school is agreed, he is not fulfilling the requirements necessary to be able to ask for these aids. And bringing this proposal to debate today must also bring us to a memory exercise. Mirin, we, in 2016, certainly presented a message to the totality; in that we withdrew so well we knew the lack of support of parliamentary groups, in concrete terms, of those who did give us support in 2016. The change in position could be the modification of the joint, as they have commented, however, despite the simplification of its proposal, the better at some points, according to some spokespersons have commented, do not delete some articles questioned for themselves that we consider to be of use, such as this intermediation of third parties or the theme of concerted schools, and, therefore, the right not of families to decide. That's why what we don't understand is how, despite the fact that these points of the articulation are kept the same, the group of commons – in the previous term, Catalonia Yes that it is Pot – abstained from the talk of the totality presented, and now, in change, everywhere, of our proposal. Nor do we understand – less yet – the vote in favour of the move to the totality of the CUP Group, Mr Riera, and today, therefore, this position in favour of this proposal by Ciutadans. Because, gentlemen of the CUP and ordinary gentlemen, today they are whitening a false debate with their speech, which they simply want to leave in question not the Government – which is legitimate, leave in question the Government – but the Catalan education system, the educational community, the professionals of education. They lose an opportunity to make clear – a party born to carry the Catalan education system – that a law agreed as the LEC, quite enough, within and outside this parliamentary arc, only requires economic capacity and political consensus to develop it. You said these ideas were the Ciutadans Group's marketing; so now, unfortunately, they are added to this marketing by virtue of fairness and responsibility. We would very much like to continue at our side so as to continue working for the consent of the educational model. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.187.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Josep Maria Forné. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.188.0	Mr. President, Mr. Councillors... Mr. Counselor, Members of Parliament, I don't think I've consumed the two minutes of time, I'll do a little bit of work, because a lot of things have been said, and so, somehow, you don't have much to say about them either. The first is that it is a legislative initiative that attempts and pursues to ensure that the universal right to education is able to guarantee with all consequences, and that, therefore, the material that must also accompany this educational process has the possibility of being used by all members of our country's citizens. So, if it's an initiative like this, then, somehow they're on the side. It is true that there were other ways to have made this vehicle and there was no need for this law proposal, but well, there is, and somehow there will be a majority support in this chamber, and therefore we will also support the processing of this law, while, seeing the interventions of the groups, there are many doubts about this proposal: the form of financing of this initiative, the form of distribution, the unequalness that it supposes for a few students of a type of school or school, there are many questions in which there is: the form of financing of this initiative, the form of distribution, the inequality that exists for a number of students of a type of study or school, the conclusion of a lot of studies, the conclusion of such an initiative, the form of financing of this initiative, the distribution, the form of distribution, the unequality that it supposes for a few students of a type of study or school, the conclusion of a lot of studies, the finalization of a lot of studies, the finalization of a lot of studies. Yes, perhaps, at its origin, the guarantee of education to everyone and through the use of tools that this education needs..., this will indeed be achieved. I repeat that it could also have been achieved through the LEC itself, first – a development that, in fact, is already being done, in good part. We're talking free. On the other hand, it's a menu of text books and curricular material or school material that you have; a way, I say, to donate it. Of course, a small parenthesis: if it's not right, with this form of loan we'll be doing is a stigmatization of those who are using second and third and fourth and fifth hand things with respect to those that can be guaranteed first-hand use, and then the differences will still be greater. But let's assume that there will be correction through the process of papers and processing and that... so, then, there will be. It also happened that it is a proposition of law that already has its presentation in 2016, I seem to remember, and at that time it died for a series of impositions. It is true that there has been a series of corrections, and we have to assume that the good will or the will of the different groups to have changed the position and the same drafting, so they will make it seek to fulfill the purpose. Yes, I would, but..., three reflections, say, and point out some shortcomings, that I already repeat that I do not want to say them again, but some reflections that seem to me to be... The first, the value of gratuity, and understand yourself, at Machado's point: "It is foolish to confuse value and price, eh? If the price is zero, then the value is zero; this is a hard mistake, and I hope that the use of this material doesn't fall into this trap, say, that things that didn't cost have no value, but..., value is not the price they have, huh? Let us maintain this premise of the Machado: "It is foolish to confuse value and price, which does enough the capitalist system, in its defect. Another thought: to think about the subject of what gratuitousness entails. Another of the reflections I would like..., which also came out indirectly, is the universalization of rights after paying taxes differently, and if that is correct – as was previously stated in the Madrid application, for example, in a similar law – as a function of returns. Then, here too we have to stand up to what could have paid different taxes as a function of returns also means, say, enjoying differently from rights and benefits. Well, it's to think about it, how this topic will apply. And, lastly, the last thought I would like to point out is the excess – which has also been said – of the fact that it is put to the free textbook as the main tool, yet, in an educational scheme in which the assignment or content of the assignment is the center of the educational process and the one not above to get that knowledge of that assignment or content, so it is decatalogued, when, thanks to God, to say it in a generic way, the center of the educational process is no longer in the content, but is in the acquisition of some skills as a function of a diversity of skills that we want to respect and empower, and not exclude, but includes people. There is someone who says..., I would say that exaggeratedly, but there is someone who says that the education system is no longer that of the four" some: a classroom, a group, a subject and an assignment, this idea that all of us here and in our educational process have experienced: that we have been placed in a group, that we have a classroom – during the whole stage of the course we did not move from that classroom – and at one hour we had a certain assignment, which is ugly. This, yesterday itself, therefore, with the change, for example, which was proposed as an architectural model and other versatility that the classroom may have..., in the classroom there may be different groups and there may be different materials simultaneously, it may not be that it is in the same hour. And, therefore, the tools that are equipped to make this education system more flexible and more responsive to the diversity of students' abilities, these tools are no longer exclusively or – I would say – primarily the textbook, but are often material made for the interveners, for the teachers who are participating in it. And, more importantly, it would be useful to enhance the way in which different centres, different teachers, in different areas, interact to create specific materials that can have great differences. With this, Mr. Riera, I would say that it does not spread, that diversity does not have to be contradictory to equity, that it is things that can go perfectly married, and it does not seem that the idea of absolute equality is the only guarantee of equity. Therefore, the text book as the only free object would be an error. It's true that he was accompanied by curriculum material, but we couldn't leave him here. I can't be, Mrs. Niubó, of..., I suppose it's been a lapse: we're a country– we're a country. It was a mistake – it was a mistake. We're not a state yet, but we're a country. I know there's been a lapse, no desire, no more importance. And I can't help but absolve you of the importance of fiscal policies to ensure social policies, such as gratuity, etc. All right. From these fiscal policies that can be corrected, we also identify the difficult and sustained fiscal deficit that our country suffers and that our finances suffer, and that does not allow social policies as we would like. Also the fiscal deficit is part of this hardship. As there is a lot of work, because here it will be processed and it has been possible to make statements and it has been possible to give it the turn as a means to this proposal of law, we have withdrawn the message to the totality, and therefore we are pleased to be able to contribute to the guarantee of the universal right of education. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.189.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, and since there are no items in totality because they have withdrawn, this initiative can continue its processing. [[Greetings.]] So let's move on to the next point in the order of the day, which is the interrogations. Before I follow, therefore, let me tell you that there is a request made for the Government, in accordance with Rule 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure, which I ask – and I therefore propose to the plenary – that the question to the Government on actions that harm coexistence, which appears as a dotze point of the order of the day, continue to be substantiated before the suspension of the sitting at midday, is to say, after having substantiated point 17. Both the Government and the parliamentary group making the inquiry – in this case, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group – have expressed their conformity. Therefore, I exposed to the Ple. Is there any inconvenience in making this change in the order of the day? Don't you? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Asking the Government about housing policies]] [[300-00149/12]] So we follow, as we say, with the interrogations. And the first of this delay is the question to the Government about housing policies, formulated for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose her, has the word Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.190.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Councillor, Members and Members, today we want to talk about housing – we haven't talked about it in the morning, we're talking about it again this late – today we want to talk about housing policies. And it is that the last few months we have seen an erratic government in many areas, and also in habitat, and we want to know what strategy, if any, the government will follow in this area. And it will allow me, Counsellor Calvet, to ask you, and to know that some decisions that have taken the last few weeks or the last few months have not been taken. I refer specifically to the decree which was drawn up by the Department of Justice which intended to regulate the prices of urban leases, to moderate the prices of urban leases, and which we have debated today and which, in the end, has not been ratified. But we understand that more than that, then, that the two members of the government have some bits between them to try to point out a "so much in the matter of housing, if I may, you are in charge of the area, and therefore I will answer to you as an object of the inquiry – in fact, as Mr Campdepadrós has very subtly pointed out to us in his intervention this morning. It is clear that the housing situation in Catalonia is critical. You can only see the effort that families have to make to pay the mortgage and the rent of the logger, or the large number of charges precisely for the inability to take on this cost. And it is also evident that the last few years the Government of the Generalitat has made an important effort in housing policies in the assemblies. In fact, if we analyze the data of the housing assumption of the Government of the Generality, we see how from 2010 to 2017 the expenditure fell in a 43_per_cent, while the Catalan joints allocated a 82_per_cent more, from 2010 to 2017. Therefore, an over-effort of the joint efforts to deal with a housing emergency in the harshest times of the crisis, but also to deal with the general lack of resources allocated to it. In fact, you have followed a clear line of passing responsibilities, by action or omission, to the assemblies, without passing them, yes, the necessary resources. They may say they've been practicing on the side of the competition. Let us remember, for example, the marked agreement for the acquisition of habitats from the quantity and withdrawal that they made available to the joints, an agreement for which they leave money to the joints with a reduced interest, is certain, but which implies that at the end of seventy-five years that habitat, which has been acquired by this way, disappears from the municipal patrimony and passes to that of the Generality. A deal ran, go, especially for the Generalitat. We would like to know how many joints have joined this agreement and how many habitats have been bought by this way. But not only that, counselor: they have left the gatherings alone in a subject as sensitive as that of the occupations. Our group put forward a proposal in this area, because we understood that it was clear that there was a need to put forward strategies and plans to invest and resolve this situation by making empty floors no longer exist, and thus completing the social function and people who do not have a suitable habitat. In the same way, we understand and understand that situations of venous conflict and that are timed against coexistence, generated by situations, by practice, by infrahabitation or by the presence of mafias, are resolved with a greater involvement of the administrations, in particular, of the Generality. Partial solutions, simply focused on court cases, more or less accelerated, do not solve the issue. It's a global and cross-cutting focus in which you don't leave all the burden of the occupation and its consequences to the joints, which is exactly what you're doing. The proposal submitted for the Socialist Group i Units per Avançar, which was negotiated and approved on November 2018, has not been completed. In fact, counselor, in the control of compliments you refer to measures that were involved in the decree that you approved and that you then withdrew – which I will refer to later – to the elaboration of a residence register in absentia – from which now as we do not know – and to the revision of the protocol of intervention of the Mosso d'Esquadra. Therefore, today, we are talking about new developments in the field of occupations. In reality it does the effect, counselor, that you, in the matter of occupations, look at it from another side, because, somehow, this way of housing, if I may say so, of many families take them to you in the pressure of the months of emergence. What would happen if all these families who see themselves busy are left day by day on the street? How would you do that, this government, to give it a solution? Counselor, this government does not provide solutions in terms of occupation. We have a line of joints that seems more than dubious to acquire habitat for the joints, for their heritage; we have no action to answer the occupations. And, on the other hand, the last few months we have found ourselves with two decrees in the field of habitation: one, as I said at first, elaborated for the advice of Territories, and the other, from the justicia. We must bear in mind that using the formula of the decree is justified by the need for urgency in its approval, and it is obvious the urgent need to give out to families – there is, this urgency – but it is also obvious that things will be done well. I said this morning: we cannot draw up decrees for the rest of the parliamentary groups, for the purpose of establishing a framework for the assembly, for the social entities and for the municipal authorities, because, on such a sensitive issue as housing, we can give security. When legislative actions are taken, they must be well worked out, talked to everyone, and, moreover, the certainty must be maintained that they will prosper and be effective, that they will complete the statutory framework and that they will be effective in their approval; otherwise, they will not serve the king. And we understand that it is possible to reach agreement with all groups, that it is not possible to reach agreement with all groups or with all concerned groups, but as at least we could have talked to everyone. And they did not, counselor, nor with the decree that led you nor with what today led to the ratification of Constellera Capella. If we go into the analysis of these decrees, the first one we have to ask ourselves is whether one or the other is providing immediate solutions to the problems, is to say, if they complement the essential requirement to be able to pass a decree and not seek other legislative forms, and the answer is no. On one side, Decree 5/2009, of 5 March, to improve access to housing, a decree which, as I said, led you, Councillor, and which, as I said, did so without talking to the parliamentary groups – even before your approval – or with the entities in the area of housing or municipalists. So they threw all the solos into the pool. What was that decree supposed to mean? So I figured another time I'd hand him the weight of action in housing to the joints, without giving them, that's right, the resources to do it, and, therefore, condemn many of those actions to be dumb paper. The decree did not resolve correctly how the cost of housing promotion would be borne in terms of affordable accommodation or the cost of providing accommodation, which was supposed to be promoted together. And, moreover, it seemed that the Generalitat was disengaged from its obligations to increase its public housing stock to deal with social emergencies and residential exclusion legally established until now. But it also meant a new model of protected housing and, presumably, a rise in prices of modules with differences between populations and even between barrels within a single city, and, moreover, with the liberalisation of the award of housing. Finally, the government was called upon to withdraw that decree by finding that it did not have enough support to validate it. And then came the decree of May 21st, 9/2019, of urgent measures in the matter of yield content in the housing leases, from which today we have made a debate for its validation, and, as you all know, it has not been validated. This decree responds more to the will to generate title the same week of municipal elections than to effectively solve the problems presented by the logger market. Because beyond the competitive problems, which existed – hardly weighing on the councillor, and the Council of State Guarantees thus manifested – there were also problems of foundations, of obvious content. The fact that the decree allows the bidding, in some cases, of the 5, of the 10 or 20_per_cent of the income, a rule of exceptions to the application of this one or not to contemplate a rule of sanctions in case of failure by the owner, are some of the most questionable points, to our mind, of this decree. And, as I said, the entities working in the field of housing are in the same line and have mostly exposed the same as opposition groups. And even the whole Catalan Competition Authority has made a report in this sense and said that this regulation can carry exactly the opposite effects to the quest. Finally, this decree has not been validated, and therefore we believe, Councillor, that the Government should reflect on its housing policy, especially on the actions that have taken the last few months, because they have all failed, Councillor. Therefore, we would like to know which strategic lines will be undertaken from then on by your department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.191.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, the word has the advisor Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.192.0	President, Counsellor, Members, Members of Parliament... Madam Member, many thanks for this inquiry into housing policies, which allows us, once more, to talk about it, to debate, to contrast opinions. We've done it since the first day of this legislature. In fact, one of the first issues that we had to deal with as the department was, therefore, also oral questions and inquiries around housing policies, and the first actions of the Department of Territory and Sustainability also went to address certain problems of housing policies, and we have continued to work. I would like to thank him once more for putting this topic on the table, and I would also like to thank him – and I am saying this with all sincerity and normality – for the way he has asked me. Miri, us, yesterday, as a department of territories and sustainability, we made a finding with the communication media, of these usual findings that it is a fan to make an appreciation of the first year of government, of everything that it refers to the policies not so much of habitat, but to all those that make reference to the Secretary of Urban Habitat and Territories, that is, policies of planning of the territory, of urbanism and of habitat. And I have to say that the issue of housing has taken up much of our explanations, because the government has ruled and has done a lot in housing. We would have liked to have done even more, obviously, but we will not fail and we will continue to try for all our lives. You ask me what the government's overall direction or direction in housing policies is. I would say that the main – sometimes I use the expression "the main ingredient of the reception, the complicated reception of having the best housing policies in our country" – is to expand as follows the social housing stock. I didn't say the public park, did I? , which also, but the social housing stock; also, therefore, encouraging the private enter this market, ultimately. And we did, we expanded it. We have expanded it, in the first instance, through the exercise of tanteig and retraction. The practice of tanteig and retraction, I'm sorry, is an invention of this government, it's an invention that is only necessary from Decree 1/15. There are other autonomous communities that have not yet reached this point; we have. As we govern ourselves, logically, therefore, heretics of previous governments. We were able to dispose, through this Decree 1/15, of this capacity to exercise taneig and retraction, and we have done so. During the year 2018 we made 853 purchases for 48,9_million euros. And in which we carry from 2019 already in portem 460 for an import of 25_million euros. With these acquisitions we have reached 2,286– 2,286 – built-in habitats in the park, through this route, that of the aunt and retraction, from Decree 1/15, which has allowed us to overcome the twenty-thousand habitats administered by the Agency of the Habitat of Catalonia, which is a figure that we consider to be, percentagely, still scarce and that we need to increase, and that is why we continue to work, and I will now refer to it. But, in any case, you would also like to refer to the attention to social emergence – you talked about it. We obviously want to continue to pay attention to this social emergence, to avoid the risk of social exclusion, and we have increased the resources of social housing programs through support for the maintenance of housing and the same emergence. During 2018– you asked me for concrete figures, before I told him about aunty and retraction– we arrived at 138_million euros, with more than 78,000 aid, of natural difference, but most, help to pay for logging. The Government, therefore, maintained efforts to address residential exclusion risk situations. Also at the length of the past year they awarded 840 habitats through the months of emergence, and until May of this 2019 they went down to three hundred; therefore, we continue to manage the months of emergence. I gave him two figures. I must say that of the total number of shipments that we have to value at these times..., for which we have two classes in the months of emergence, one of the only, that we manage from the agency, and then we have eleven municipalities with months of emergence that are close to these municipalities. The number of pending cases is 594 consignors, and the number of cases of the Mesa d'Emergència, that of Catalonia, solved and habitating pending is 634 consignors at this time– 634. Of the municipalities with their own table, of these eleven municipalities with their own table, of which we have 706 pending, of expedients. Therefore, a sifra, therefore, important and that we want to correct. But let's say one thing– let's say one thing– and ask for help, to you, which forms part of the group that governs the State: if we demand..., if the State made available to Catalonia the habitats of the Sareb, the ones that have the Sareb..., I already know that it is a public vehicle private, but in any case, with participation also of the State... Today we have registered 5,751 habitats of the Sareb ; 3,500 are found empty and under conditions of habitability. Only that the Generality and the joints are prepared of these habitats, the problem of the product, of the habitats that we need to deal with these resolved dispatches for the Board of Emergencies but not yet..., informed favorably, but not resolved, we would already have solved it, in this case. So help us, too, that the Sareb – because we cheat on the door and sometimes we can't find anyone –..., to what is the disposition of these habitats, right? You also refer to resources. And, obviously – and I always repeat this – there is a first part of the speech that obvious, that is that most of the resources that are devoted to housing policies come from the National Housing Plan, underdotat, that obviously comes from the contributions that we make with our taxes, and that any years, therefore, we see as diminishing. And not only does it diminish, but it also eliminates some of the mechanisms that make it more useful for Catalonia: the famous Efficiency Fund; it is to say that those autonomous communities that spent all the money that was initially allocated to them could dispose of the non-spent money for other autonomous communities. Look at the graph of the state's presuppositional endowments in housing: there were some peaks, but they went down, they went missing. Today Catalonia rep 14,5_percent of the total, about 50_millions per year, with a multiannual four-year plan– so, 200_millions–, when you know perfectly well that we are 16,22_percent of the population, 19_percent of GDP. And even more interesting data: 16.29_percent of the main habitats are in Catalonia, 23.9_percent of the habitats are in Catalonia; in change, we only get 14.5_per_cent. So he's also asking you to help us. He asks you, as a member of the political party governing the Spanish State, to tell the Ministry of Development and then the Ministry of Finance that you correctly provide the national housing plans and transfer the money that corresponds to Catalonia. And not just that I transferred them, but that I also kept these items that I told you before that they were very useful to us, like that Efficiency Fund. We with this money, obviously, would do more and better housing policies: we could buy more housing for as many and retraction, we could do more direct promotion of habitats with official protection, we could also agree with the privates on the possibility that they also promote habitats in official protection... He said before that one of the first things we did as a government was to equip us, through the ICF, with funding lines, both to the tanteig and retraction programs as housing promotion: 140_millions for new housing protected for public and private promoters, with a line we named ICF 1, and 110_millions for joints and entities to expand the social housing park through the tanteig and retractor– 110_millions– in a line we named ICF 2. He's asking me for the ciphers. With these subsidized loans, until June, there were requests for support to finance promotional projects for an import of €46.8 million. It is worth saying that today the financing market also offers loans in good conditions, and therefore we have not exhausted this line of 140_million euros, but it is a line that is not closed, which, in fact, is open until it can be exhausted. The 110_million_line was used to formalise the purchase of 353 dwellings for an import of 28.2_million euros. Well, it's not bad; but, in any case, it's also a line that's not closed, that's going to develop until it's exhausted. And why hasn't it run out any more? For example, because the Catalan Habitat Agency..., these habitats that we have bought with quantity and withdrawal..., we have made it through prestecs of the same Institut Català del Sòl : up to 30_million euros in 2018, 20_million euros in 2019 – 30 in 2018, 20 in 2019. They are, therefore, concrete of the housing policies, orientations of the housing policies that you have asked me and that I have been able to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.193.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply has the word Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.194.0	Okay. Counselor, I believe that what he has explained to us is what they have done, but he has not explained to us the lines, the strategies that this Government has, or should have, to solve the difficult problems in housing. I mean, if we always end up doing the same thing, we can hardly get out of the situation we're in. And, in addition, I see that he's still squeezing away, somehow, responsibility, and he's demanding, so... that the government of the state doesn't put enough money in it. Listen, I won't argue with you. Obviously, the state government has to put more money in the housing plans, in other instruments that it can approve extraordinarily, and we will demand it wherever we go. But we insist, because we believe he lives, and above all the last few months, in those actions that have taken the last few months, this government has failed. And believe me, counselor, that when I tell you this, we do not rejoice in the government's failure, neither in habitation nor in any other environment, because this failure involves hard problems, hard consequences for Catalans and Catalans. So, we want to know, we wanted to know who these strategies were, because we thought that this government had different lines of action that could lead us to effective solutions on the issue of housing. Miri, we need powerful tools to work. We need the final approval of the sectoral territorial plan for housing, we need the approval of a law of housing with the will to rebut all the legislation that exists in this area – we have not talked about some time you and I, counsel – but also with the will..., this law regulating powerful and transversal measures of soil production, mobilising empty habitat and lycer estimum measures. We need the legal coordination and cooperation of all administrations with competence in housing matters. More resources – I already said –, more resources than all administrations. The State, through the state housing plans, must bring more – in fact, it does so in those assumptions that you did not vote for – but the Generality, too: the responsibility cannot be ignored, saying that it lacks funding from the State, and, on the other hand, asking for more involvement in the gatherings. They can't practice competition anymore. There must be cross-cutting action by the government to put itself at the side of the gatherings on a subject as difficult as that of the occupations, which you did not mention; there must be work in social, legal and security circles. We must fight hard against empty habitat: if there is no empty habitat, there is no occupied habitat. We must draw up a reference index that is not inflated by the fact that it is a reflection of the price cylinder; therefore, it must take into account in its elaboration not only the data of the bond register, but also fiscal, cadastral, of the Register of Ownership..., an index that is consumable for the loggers. We need to increase the housing offer in general, but especially in social logue. Warm up more resources to significantly increase the public park. Steps are being taken to encourage the owners to put their pes in the logue, and they do so under the price index. In short, counselor, we have a lot of work to do, and we don't see – at least we haven't seen it until now – a clear line of action. Having a suitable habitat to develop the vital project is basic for everyone. It is up to us to find the complicity and consensus needed to make it happen, to all, but especially to you, counselor, who are in government. We ask you to push effective housing policies and do so looking for as much consensus as possible, because we have seen these last weeks, these last months, which happens when you don't seek consensus: you get to the fracá. We ask you, Counselor, that I re-edit the National Housing Pact, because we are convinced that only with a great consensus of country can we bring forward policies that have enough to solve the problems that exist. And, counselor, to work on finding solutions, always from the point of view of responsibility, he will find us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.195.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the reply the word has the counselor, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.196.0	President, Councillor, Members, Members... Madam Member, you speak to me about the lines..., from where we go in housing policies, and I, after a first intervention in which I challenged him, therefore, concrete actions and data of 2018, will explain to him where we go. Somehow – you have made reference because, in fact, we have not spoken on more than one occasion – we want to make a new legislation on housing. A legislation that I compile, but not only that I compile from the point of view of aggregation, but that modernises all the scattered legislation that we currently have in the matter of housing, from the Law of the Right to Housing, the Law would say that 5th of the year 2007, the main one, which bases the majority of the legislative body... but, after that, that I actually add, therefore, Decree 1/15, this one that enabled us to tante and retract, and, obviously, everything that makes reference to the empty floors, that also was a novelty that brought forward a government of the Generality. There are some autonomous communities that have not arrived here; there are many countries that have not arrived there. We have the capacity to report and fine, and in any case, to exercise this pressure because the empty habitations of the great tenors become, logically, a social role. We have everything that makes reference to 24/15, everything that makes reference to 4/16, which also since the Government of the Generality we have been able to resolve. We had resources from the Constitution to the world, not intervened for you, but for the People's Party, and it cost a little more than we hoped of your power, so settle them. The truth is that there was a promise that we would be able to raise the constitutional appeal immediately – so we signed it – and that was not the way it was, we had to negotiate and negotiate, until the time when we were also conditioned by the decree of limitation on the price of wine, which I repeat is a shame – I expressed it publicly yesterday, and I said today – that it could not be validated. As I also reiterate, it was a shame that we could not validate Decree 5/2019, a decree in which we believe very much and which we will resubmit. We will come back to you with the conversations that we have been able to have with all the political groups that have done so well, or with the entities that manage housing issues, to improve it. We believe that, indeed, we may have missed a couple or three weeks of political management of that decree, but we believe that we are making it and we want to put it on the table again. A decree of measures in the field of housing, an urgent decree, on the margin of this legislation. Before I told him we'd have to submit a preliminary memo and start processing it; we also hope to do so before the year ends, but it has a storm, obviously, much longer than this decree of urgent measures. We want to strengthen, redefine and extend the ordinary instruments of housing legislation, with this decree, with this urgent decree, basically with three objectives: first, to increase the protection park of lloger– this already know– ; to equip us with more instruments to combat emergency situations and denunciations, and also to moderate the prices of lloger of free habitats through the index of reference price. On the margin of the decree that we tried to validate today, it is obvious that the very existence of the index of reference prices, of which we are not very proud... In fact, the real decree of the State – that we, of course, have validated without conditions, practically – mark that it will make an index of reference price to the image and likeness, we would say, eh? , of ours, based on real market data. It's not inflation—it's not inflation—as you said, because what's inflation is the announcements that the estate managers have on their side. Our reference price index which is based on data of certainly the deposit of bonds and of the Register of contracts is real market, and if you appreciate the difference between what is real market and what is announced is precisely thanks to this reference price index. In short, this new decree law to increase the public housing stock of social logger. Also..., exhaust as much as it refers to tanteig and retract; also announce that, as long as the tanteig and retract mechanism will not have its own month the large volume of packets of inversion funds that we have reviewed to buy habitats very quickly..., will not have this large volume, the open hold, this will be a drop by drop. But ultimately, the resources that we're going to spend on this line of aunty and shrinky we're going to allocate, from the coming year, that's when these big bundles of aunty and shrinky will run out, to what? A promotion. To promote, in this case, yes, public, from the Incasòl, of habitats with official protection. And, yes, they are also demanding for the mobilization of the public heritage floors of the assemblies, of the local corporations, because they dedicate them exclusively to the promotion of housing with social loguer. This is the will, the government's line of work: increase, above all, the social logger park of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.197.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the action plan of the departments prior to the climate emergency]] [[300-00150/12]] The next item is the question to the Government on the cross-cutting action plan prior to the climate emergency, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom. It has the word Ms. Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.198.0	Yes, thank you, Vice President, and good afternoon to everyone and everyone. Counselor, today we have this inquiry to talk about the most important challenge that we consider to be in our time, that it is not other than the climate crisis; a climate crisis that is not of the future, it is already a reality, and, if we have any doubt, we are seeing it this week with the heat wave and also with the contamination we have in the air. And so, beyond party interests, ideological positions, action, and urgent action. Experts a few months ago have already explained how human activities are responsible for increasing global temperatures in more than one degree, and what are the consequences? , which are not other than the rise of sea level, the deglaço, the impoverishment of water and agricultural resources, damage to health – as always, mainly in people living in the most disadvantaged areas – and harmful social and economic consequences. Counselor, you also know that Catalonia is a particularly vulnerable area for climate change. We see that our studies have been extended five weeks since the 1980s and that there has also been a greater presence of tropical diseases, cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases, a greater frequency of heat waves and also a reduction in colitis. Well, before all this, I insist, we must make it clear that it is not a natural catastrophe, but that we are responsible and that we must put ourselves to work without losing a minute, with all efforts, all the intelligence and also all the generosity from the street and from the institutions, because, as I said, the Earth is patenting the climate change and does not affect everyone equally. On the one hand, we have the developing countries, which, paradoxically, have followed those that have benefited the least in their growth of fossil fuels, and they are the ones that are paying the most because this climate change. And, on the other hand, there are the bottom of the rest of the countries, the social majority that is also most affected by the effects of the climate crisis. I have suffered in our salvation, in the opportunities of the future, in our territories, and, ultimately, in our lives. Therefore, what we see is that the climate crisis puts at risk not only equity in general, at the global level, but also equity at the intergenerational level. The young people say: "Our house is in flames. And we make ourselves our own; exactly, our house is in flames, and so when a house is in flames it is not a matter of putting a stick, but of gaining time to rebuild it from the foundations. Counselor, when a house is in flames I think it's more of a fire cry! It's about calling the bombers, and when they get there, they'll take it. I think it's a sensible thing, it's a common sense thing, but it seems like you're either not listening or not reacting. The government, we see that the Mayan declared the climate emergency in Catalonia on the line of what they made countries like the United Kingdom or Scotland. And I ask him: does this climate statement seem consistent while it is systemically incomplete – while it is systemically incomplete – the Climate Change Act? Because, of course, in the end, this climate statement without concrete measures is emptying itself. You are talking about commitments, prioritising, accompanying, taking action without concrete details, increasing the rate without saying anything, and, meanwhile, the raw reality is that the law has not been completed, which, in the end, contains basic measures to be able to cope with this climate crisis. We see some of the faults of the Climate Change Law: you still haven't put the carbon dioxide emissions of mechanical traction vehicles on the line or the carbon dioxide emissions of the contaminant industries or the Crevice emissions. They have not provided resources for the Climate Fund, which is nodious to the three previous taxes, but, moreover, also for an ordinary item that has not been enabled. They have not yet reviewed sectoral policies to adapt them to climate change; nor have they reviewed natural space management plans. They have not practically promoted renewable energies nor has Icaen become an energy agency. At this point we will never reach 50 percent of renewable energy that we intend to reach by 2030. Another issue: the government has agreed to scale up – the government of the state, I say – to society with energetic oligopolies the expansion of the useful life of nuclear power plants for more than two years, until 2035, roughly. The Catalan law, our law, provided for it by 2027, and we would like to know what you intend to do so that this 2027 objective of ours remains respected, which plans for a fair transition are being promoted in the territories that are affected by the closure of nuclear power plants, because this will also have an economic effect and an impact on the workplaces. Nor have they established minimum percentages of renewable energy for commercial establishments exceeding the five hundred square meters. There was no electrification plan for the main ports. No emission control area has been created in port infrastructure. No measures have been taken to prevent motor vehicles from burning fossil fuel from 2030 onwards. Nor have the carbon assumptions been made, nor the distribution to competing areas. What's the carbon slug in Catalonia, counselor? We don't know anything about the Law of Residues, phonenal, certainly, for the reduction of plastics. A few weeks ago we had a campaign to reduce plastic. Well, we don't know anything about the Residue Bill, but neither does the Air Quality Bill. We don't know how long they'll be; if you can tell us, we'd appreciate it, counselor. In summary, the news, the unfortunate news is that nothing has happened practically in these two years. We said it at the time. My partner, Hortênsia Grau, told Counsellor Rull at the time: Climate Change Law is not a law of desire, it is a law of action and it is a law of opportunity, and it seems that they have forgotten it, or we are losing this opportunity. Why? So why change patterns of thinking, growth, production, consumption. Counselor, what are you doing to change all these patterns? Because, if in the end it's just a matter of relation between what's more or less politically correct, we don't just see the actions, nor the consequences or the facts that we need to address this emergence that you yourself have said; because what we see is what we see, but it turns out that the young people see it, too, the experts see it, everyone sees it. It's that we have the house in flames and you don't react. Where's the biodiversity law, counselor? Where is the range of protected species? Looks like he's through with the department. We don't understand why. Our actions should be the first step towards addressing profound transformations that allow us to escape the paradox that is at the heart of our society. It's just the idea of permanent growth, on one side, on a planet that's over. And this idea is no longer irrational, it's that you're deeply perilous. The ecologists, the seventy-year-olds – and we fifty years later, we continue to insist – say that it is necessary to advance towards a post-capitalist society, a post-growth society. And we see that we're in a bad mood. The energy model is at stake, our agriculture, the common benefits, our food, the beaches, the territories, the water, our economy... In short, our lives and that of our daughters are in the future. And it's not just a climate crisis; it's a model crisis. And that's why we wanted to ask Councilwoman Budo. He didn't want to, it's all right. We're delighted, I'm delighted to talk to you, but for us it's not strictly an environmental issue; it's a model issue and it's a country issue. And in order to have this global look, it seems to us that the creation of an economic transition department is the key; a department that should lead, coordinate and monitor all the policies we need to cope with the climate crisis. What do you think, counselor? We would like to know your opinion on the creation of this department, because climate justice should be the compass of any democratic government, because the green revolution has come to stay and has come to change everything, to change the welfare system, the economy, the production system and also our institutions. Young people, scientists, activists are doing their job, and now institutions and the government need to do their job. They go together, but each one assumes its responsibility. And what we see is that this government does not govern and does not assume its responsibility. You're done because you're paralyzed by your government division. There are many views that are warning you of the problem, offering solutions, working in the right direction, but you are not listening. And we insist on it: to move from an ancient paradigm to a paradigm of shared sobrieties, a sobriety embedded in the 21st century, not in the XVIIth century. And that's why we need everyone, we need a transformative municipalism and we need Catalonia to lead the necessary changes in the State and Europe. The economic transition to the lower one will only be possible if we are coordinated, and that is why we are talking about shared sovereignties. Counselor, because we are still able to rebuild our home from the foundations, first to put out the flames. Therefore, I insist, they are not worth stickers, they are not worth tebis commitments, they are not worth incompliments. Keep up the good stuff so no one gets in the way. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.199.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, you have the word, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.200.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies; honourable Member, that you do not know the day by day of the department does not mean that we are not doing anything. The law is a law that is developing, and now I can explain to you some of the questions that you have made as if we are not doing anything, but that, actually, not here the one talking to you, that it is the poor counselor of Territory and Sustainability, but the secretary of Medi Ambient, and the directors general and the people who carry the day-to-day of the department work and work a lot. We are a government committed to the environment and sustainability, we are a government committed to climate change, or to fighting climate change, and we are a government committed to the concept of climate change or climate crisis. Why? Because it's evidence. You refer to the principle of your intervention. It's scientific evidence. A few days ago we presented the climate data button, which is done by the Meteorological Service of Catalonia, one of our summer structures, and found that, in fact, the temperature of Catalonia has increased two and a half degrees since 1950, or that the system of plugs, while still very unpredictable, shows a tendency to a greater severity in the cycles of the same. Well, that's all a scientific evidence, actually, that makes us answer. And, indeed, we answer it. We're also responding to what's thought and developed at the planetary level, huh? , and has customized himself in the figure of Greta Thunberg, the teenager who has customized the « Fridays for Future, all this, say, greater social consciousness around the climate emergency, and we have gathered it, and we are not really proud that the government declared the climate emergency a few weeks ago, on May 14. This climate-emergency statement is the will to, in short, question many of the policies that are being made, speed them up, review them, because the objective is shared. They are not only to be developed, these objectives, the Department of Territory and Sustainability, but each of the departments of the Government of the Generality. That's why we also have an interdepartmental committee to fight climate change, with the assistance of a Catalan Climate Change Office that evaluated, therefore, everything that refers to this climate emergency. We want to achieve the objectives in terms of mitigation and adaptation that established the Climate Change Law, which is also a law that we are proud of. This law demonstrated this commitment and the power of the legitimate councillor, Josep Rull, and of the entire team of the Department of Lands and Sustainability to fight against the effects of climate change, and to apply measures that are annexed in the direction of, I insist, mitigate and adapt to the new situation. We want to achieve neutrality in greenhouse gas emissions; 2030, 50_per_cent, total renewable electricity production, 100_per_cent, 2050. We need the determination and compromise of everyone, of civil society, of the economic sectors, and, in a very special way, obviously, of all the administrations, of all the levels of government. From that law to the statement... to review and speed up. I want to briefly review the basis of the climate-emergency declaration: administrative simplification measures; increase the number and priority of policies and public resources to address the transition to a renewable 100_per_cent energy model; give priority in public policies of all departments to options with less climate impact, i.e., take account of the climate vector in the assessment of all government action; take measures to halt the worrying loss of biodiversity. We share your concern. We have approved a strategy for biodiversity and are, therefore, also developing everything that refers to the creation of the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Agency. Therefore, we are on the line of work to face this worrying, I insist, loss of biodiversity. This exists. So, I'm not asking for what's going on about biodiversity, because the strategy and the creation of the agency are on the move. We need to identify and accompany the sectors of the economy that have to make the transition, to adapt to the conditions derived from the climate change, to transform into activities of low-gas emissions with winter effects. The general mark, obviously, is the stake for the circular economy. We must also adopt measures to reduce the vulnerability of those social sectors most sensitive to the impacts of climate change or of those to which this transition can affect to a greater extent; to take, of course, new models of urban mobility; through the Urban Agenda, to design better urban habitat and territory; to develop a strategy for the deployment of renewable energy installations, which are economically windy and photovoltaic, with all the problems that may arise, therefore, from the establishment of wind farms in our country, but we must also face this debate with understanding. And, also, at the very least, we need to raise all this debate around climate change at the legislative level. In fact, the same statement proposes that this Parliament can celebrate every year a monographic plethora on climate change, a plethora that precisely addresses all aspects of climate change, not only from the perspective of the Department of Territories and Sustainability, but from the point of view of government, therefore, of this inter-departmental commission to which it refers. But all this was obviously accompanied by concrete actions, specific actions that I would also like to pass on. For example, everything that refers to the Generality Government's equipment and fleets. You asked me too. We developed a strategy of energy services to equipment and infrastructure – a few days ago the vice president, Pere Aragonès, introduced it – to speed up the energy model change from the same Administration. We therefore plan to boost the generation of renewable energy at the conjunct of the government's buildings because it is supplied with net energy and near the year 2035; this, in equipments, also in the public railway company of the Generalitat. We plan to install photovoltaic plates for self-consumption shared in a hundred of Catalonia's equipment before 2021. The first performances will be done in secondary schools. We will sell solar plate installations in seventy equipments of the Lands of the Ebra and Camp of Tarragona from the public-private collaboration. That's a little pilot plan. Following on with the equipment, we approved, on Tuesday last week, the measures to complete the obligation of the Climate Change Law, a measure that we develop from the law. Even though we are not transmitting it minute by minute and you do not know it, the Climate Change Law, therefore, went forward, and the Government, last week, approved the measures to be able to complete this point of the Climate Change Law, and it is that there is an inventory of gas emissions with winter effects and a reduction program in all and each of the public buildings of the Government of the Generality. All this, from the marked footpaths of Icaen, which does a lot of good work, and also from the Office of Climate Change, the Catalan Office of Climate Change. Or more measurements. The reference to the fleets – before it refers to equipments and fleets. In fleets, this June the Directorate General of Public Contractation has published the report... to the fleets I will now arrive. In any case, another point, which is the analysis of environmental clausule indicators. So, contract. The analysis of the environmental clausul indicators of the year 2018 indicates that the percentage of environmentalization of the Government of the Generality contracts is already 25.8_percent of the total awards, for an import of 36_percent of the global economic volume. Attested to the types of contracts, currently 80,5_percent of the import of works contracts is already environmentalized. And now, the fleets. The Central Commission of Administration has tendered a centralized contract of one thousand and fourteen vehicles, destined for eleven departments and nine entities in its public sector, and with this tender we plan to renew part of the fleet of vehicles – not all, obviously – that end periods of validity of the leases, vehicles that are owned, with a very high antiquity. And many of these vehicles will be electric, hybrid, and also powered by liquid oil. Incentivising measures that we have also addressed since the declaration of climate emergency, which was presented by Constellera Chacón a few weeks ago: the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, through Icaen – again, Icaen – will allocate more than €58 million to actions they aim to immediately encourage investment by businesses and citizens in energy efficiency and efficiency, so that they reduce both energy consumption and direct and indirect emissions. And, effectively, we are developing more aspects of the Climate Change Law, among others, the ultimate environmental finalist star tax, which is the CO2 tax on vehicles, which we are working on. We are working from the Department of Vice-Presidentship and Economy and from the Tax Agency; a complex tax. To develop this tax we have had competitive problems. First, it has been difficult for us to have the database, which currently only has it in the State, and then also in volume. We have to hire even the services of the Barcelona Supercomputing Center to handle the huge amount of data from this new tax, this finalist environmental tax, which will nourish this foundation that you, therefore, demanded that you have money to be able to make environmental policies. From the post we'll have money on the fund. After that, I will refer to the competitive problems with the State with regard to the development of climate policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.201.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply has the word Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.202.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, can you tell me if any of the statements I made in my inquiry are false? Can you tell me if there are any of the twelve failures I've referred to in the Climate Change Law that are false? I'm saying this because you haven't made any cases of failure. You only say that good words, good intentions, "priority, "accompany, "take measures, yes, without specifying mass, "incentive without concrete, " elaborate, but do not know when. Its phrase is that we are working. They're always working, but the reality is that the fruits of the work are never seen. The truth is, his answer was predictable. I come out here, say the three things they're doing, list all the commitments they say they want to make at some point, yes, I insist, I don't know when, and that's the end of the question, but I have to say that for us, it's not enough. It is not enough for us, nor for our families, nor for young people, nor for experts, nor for the local world, nor for anyone. Clearly, you were talking about what's going on. I'll tell him it was two years ago that he approved the law and in these two years... and no longer for a matter of presupposition, because it's political will. This morning, during the control session, the president acknowledged that the inter-departmental commission on climate change, the functioning of the climate fund, the social climate change table were not yet created. These are actions that do not cost money and only depend on the government's narrow political will. On subsidies for the study of carbon dioxide, of course, to business associations, EUR 80,000, to local authorities, EUR 1 million, but it is that, with EUR 1 million, they can do actions to reduce diffuse emissions of gases with winter effects, geothermal energy production installations, adaptation actions and reduction of vulnerability in the face of the impacts of climate change in the field of water resources, actions to extinguish the effects of urban heat islands. President, « Not President, Councillor, there is not enough; with a million euros for the local fund, with all the things that have to be done is absolutely insufficient. And I certainly did not ask him about self-consumption in public establishments, but in commercial establishments of more than five hundred_metres_square. As I said before, we have the house in flames and you pretend to put out the fire crying fire! And with a watering-in-the-hand. This is the best half of what's going on in Catalonia right now with the climate change. And before this situation, we don't know if I would say "with the obligation, but with the compromise, humbly, to expose ourselves to where we think the action of the government should go. And we, I am telling you with all honesty and with all humility, what we believe is that Catalonia needs a green new deal, which must be green, but above all it must be a great deal of agreement that we place the interests of the social majority in the centre and impose limits on the greed and irrationality of a privileged minority, because the new agreement will only be possible if we end up with the privileges of a few and put social justice in the centre. A new green deal that would require five very basic things. The first, a plan of renewable energies for Catalonia, to complete the objectives that we already have marked: 50_percent renewables in 2030, 100_percent in 2050. And there is not enough to break the electric oligopolis in the field of commercialization, but also in production, as was done in Barcelona, with a public energy operator. And it also massively promotes energy self-consumption. In the second place, the green economy. It is necessary to generalize the green and environmental clauses in the contract. With a 25_per_cent, it must be understood that it is not enough. It is not only a matter of creating new jobs in dynamic sectors and expanding the green economy, but we need to rethink the basics of food. And that's why we have to transform the primary sector, our agriculture, the industry, the fishing industry. We need to boost our self-consumption networks. Food sovereignty must be a pillar of our economy. We urgently need the law of residue. We're talking about plastic, I've said it these weeks, and it's more urgent than ever, this law of residue. In fourth place, the welfare state has to be green. All public policies must have this sustainable look, and our common benefits, which must also be a barrier to climate change. All this is the green new deal for Catalonia, a new social pact, green, feminist, that in a relatively short time can boost a new economy that generates quality work. And the dilemma is if we stay anchored in the past century or if we lead, and if we lead a new model of country that leaves no one behind. And in this dilemma I must say that you are not choosing the right path. Enhancing the casino economy instead of working for sustainable tourism is not the right way; putting 250,000 people in a territory that is already quite tense to promote irresponsible consumption and ludopathy is not the right way. So we ask them to rectify. We're still in time, we've got a lot to do, and there's our lives, us and our daughters. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.203.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, to make the answer, it's the counselor's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.204.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members and Members, honourable Member, the truth is that you are talking to me about a green new deal, but this green new deal is about the stuffing of things that already exist, because if we have to make a green new deal to put back on the table the objectives of reducing gases with winter-time effects or producing electricity from renewable energy, that we already have the Law against climate change and that we are developing progressively, even though you don't know it, so badly. I don't know who's making more empty words. You accuse me of empty words and I accuse you of talking about labels – green new deal – but empty contents. He even doesn't know that the law of residue that he claims so much, so the government started it this week. I don't know if you were. He also explained the adviser to the Presidency, whom you wanted to ask on this subject, but who went to the political prisoners in Lledoners. And, therefore, know that this law of residue that you ask for... - and, come on, we didn't expect it, did we? It seems to me that the government approved it on Tuesday, the preliminary memoir – a law of residues that what they claim is, effectively, first adapt to the directives... Home, of course, the laws are first made with a preliminary memoir, after all a process that ends with a debate in Parliament, would be missing more. If I could make a law, it wouldn't be democracy. So, we're following the procedures that they're closing in on. The law of residue that you are claiming started by the government all just this Tuesday, I insist, to adapt to European directives or to incorporate issues as important as the circular economy. Our law of residue, therefore, is old in this sense. Or important issues such as soil contamination, which was not well collected. Therefore, working, working and working from the Department of Lands and Sustainability, that indeed, it is the competent department in the field of environment and sustainability, because we have wanted, therefore, to put this first layer, this first observation of the territory in its most natural, most environmental dimension, as well as all policies of territorial planning, urban planning and land use, remain residential, remain industrial, remain infrastructure, and therefore mobility. This is the concept that we have to be able to address environmental policies. You're talking about creating a new green transition or ecological transition department. They are French, French nomenclatures, which has recovered, therefore, the Government of the State. It seems very good to me, but in any case, we have a department of territories and sustainability that brings all the policies on the territory to one hand, and we are not proud. You, when you ruled, created the Environment and Habitat Department. Therefore, from environmental department, people or mica. In any case, the political groups that preceded those that are today, that are, therefore, Catalonia in Comú, before, when you were Initiative, the department that they created, that of Medi Ambient and Habitatge, was a department that did not deal exclusively with environmental policies. El van desvirtuar add-hi, therefore, housing policies. In any case, we will continue to work on everything I have commented on. You have practically lost the policies and assumptions of some of the parts of this environment and sustainability policy. I don't want to mention it any more. And to express, therefore, the figures of, for example, the Catalan Agency of Water, another of the state instruments that we have in order to be able to properly manage the entire water cycle, obviously with character or with the will to make this water cycle management a sustainable management. And, in any case, not so much to answer it to you, but also to give information to people who can follow us and who are concerned about everything that refers to the environment and sustainability, to tell him that today the feeling of the Constitution has come out with reference to the Law of Climate Change. There are nine-two plans that we still have to study on the ground, but that from the outset we are alerted to some issues and that we will, I insist, work and surely position ourselves as governing in the long run of our own days. First, a plea that the appeal to the Constitutional Court is not withdrawn; an appeal that was filed by the PP Government and that the PSOE had undertaken to withdraw but that it did not, despite the fact that we asked for it, and I asked the minister in person. A feeling that, along with a known topic about fracking, therefore, asks that the Government of the Generality does not declare the Mediterranean free of extracting hydrocarbons, says that this is something that the State has to do with it, or denies us the right to input from the sub-carbon. A lot of bad news – a lot of bad news – that the Constitutional's sentence to our law against climate change denies us the right to set appropriate targets, the right to do [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] a plan of electrification of our ports, also denies it, the first reading of the feeling leads us to this conclusion. And, above all, I'm very concerned...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.205.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.206.0	... this right – I finish – to the entrances below, because, without the resources that you claim, and that, unfortunately, with this feeling, we will not be able to obtain, we will hardly be able to develop good climate policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.207.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about mental health and care for youth suicide]] [[300-00151/12]] The next question is about mental health and care for juvenile suicide, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose her, Mrs Rut Ribas has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.208.0	Thank you, President. Too late for everyone. Very late, Counselor. First of all, I would like to begin by welcoming the entities that are with us today, the National Youth Council of Catalonia, the Association After Suicide - Association of Survivors, and the Catalonia Mental Health Federation, as well as the government's companies and companies, the Department of Health on mental health issues. I think it's important to note that, just as we all have physical salvation, we all have mental salvation at the length of our lives. Therefore, as much as it is intended to hide, mental salvation is a very present and common reality in the day-to-day life of any person. In fact, data points out that one_of_each_four people will experience some condition of mental salvation at the length of our life, whether it is temporary or not. And according to the World Health Organization, mental health is the basis for the well-being and functioning of one's affection. When a person experiences some mental disorder, he or she suffers emotional, cognitive or behavioural impairment, and affects him or her psychologically and emotionally, and, even so, in his or her own conduct and interaction with his or her surroundings. And, currently, 20_percent of the young population argues that they have passed at least some episode of mental health and have made a medical visit to attend to some pathology of mental and emotional health. That's why I'm asking this question today, looking for a way to take this reality into account and find it the opportunity it deserves. I don't think it's worth explaining that a few weeks ago, at the proposal of the National Youth Council of Catalonia, and in the Youth Policy Committee, we had the occasion to hold a monographic session on mental health and the prevention of youth suicide. Entities, professionals and experts in the subject matter accompanied us at the length of the day to expose us to their tasks, opportunities and attention that develop around mental health and prevention to the conduct of suicide, which is a reality very present in today's young people. And, in fact, at the international level, it is one of the priorities in its public policies. The World Health Organization also takes this into account and has made various proposals regarding mental health and establishes suicide prevention as a priority. A few years ago, the document "Health for the World's Adolescents" was also published, in which policies are established in relation to the health of adolescents and young people. According to this report, more than half of the hard mental disorders begin in the teens stage and have a high incidence around the twenty years of young people. Substance use every time is more frequent among adolescents and also adds complexity and is an important risk factor. For all this, the report states that mental health policies need to include specific proposals addressed to the adolescent and young population, especially the most vulnerable. In short, it is necessary to age to give attention to the child and youth population that suffers from some type of difficult mental disorder. But why doesn't she talk to each other? And it's because of the stigma that's always accompanied them. A stigma loaded with negative qualities that helps to make this wall bigger that avoids a recovery process, and therefore a path on which the person will always have a label on top and a motxilla full of stereotypes. These stereotypes result in the company responding with prejudice and ultimately leading to discrimination. 80 percent of young people with mental health claim to have suffered some kind of discrimination and stigma because of the stereotypes imposed on society. This later we believe that it is very important to stop silencing mental health and mental disorders, and thus to make this discrimination, to this social stigma, to prejudice and ignorance, to lead to social isolation, to find interbanks to access work, to difficulties in studies, to make the problem invisible and to create a self-stigma that normalizes the labels that are socially related to mental salvation. Also, micro-discrimination between people with mental health, subtle attacks, and daily routines that people who live with any of these conditions have to endure are very common. And because they are misunderstood and rejected, they reproduce the same stigma and self-discriminate. We can't go over what are the current causes among young people to develop some mental disorder. At present, we are the first generation after eighty years of living under the standard of living of our peers. This fact leads us to an unstable and precarious situation. We all have the data that describe the status of young people: 30_per_cent youth rate, temporary contracts, overqualification and difficulties in emancipation; a reality that builds frustration and can lead to stress, anxiety or depression, among other pathologies. As well as highlighting the increase in the consumption of ansiolytics among young people to deal with the effects of the disorders, which are recently consumed abundantly. Beyond mental salvation, to speak of juvenile suicide, today is the main cause of death among young people in Catalonia from fourteen to thirty-five years old. Youth suicide must be faced with a very important social phenomenon that affects who decides to commit it, who does the time and the time to survive the pain. And, as experts say, suicide is avoidable, but it is considered a pandemic worldwide. The causes and consequences are multifactorial and social, and it is not worth looking after to work the prevention and attention of the phenomenon: to promote healthy values and habits to give response and avoid this reality, but once the suicidal behavior has come true, to age for a good follow-up of the suffering of the survivors, all around the person who has committed the behavior. As I said, suicide is a major public health problem that has increased in recent years, and the World Health Organization estimates that the year 2020 will represent a 2.4_percent of the total burden of health problems. In Catalonia, every 5.2 days there is a juvenile suicide, but if we look at the suicide mortality rate, Catalonia has the lowest rate than the overall rate in the State, and this is lower than the European rate in relation to Western countries. As far as reference is concerned, the consequence of juvenile suicide is multifactorial, but 90_percent is the result of a mental disorder or linked to an affectation of pre-emptive mental salvation. The remaining 10_per_cent can be derived from emotional weakness, economic instability or lack of social background. The risk factors of suicide among young people are diverse: depression, bipolarity, eating disorders, alcoholism or substance abuse, and there has been a pre-eminent timing. These are some of the factors among many, but they can also put into value the factors of prevention and protection, such as good emotional health, social skills, the prevention of bullying, the ability to solve problems, access health resources and good policies of emotional health and mental health. But when a person is killed, he leaves a circle of survivors. They and they are invisible and must live the rest of their lives with this pathological pain that will never disappear, questioning many things that often do not have an answer; moreover, they are always stigmatized, since suicide is not socially well seen, and, on occasions, not respected. It is necessary to work because the survivors of a suicide can talk about it and accept it with the deepest normality, receive a good follow-up and thus avoid possible consequences, and, all the while, break the stigma that accompanies it. So, counsel, we would like to know what the Health Department is doing about mental salvation and the prevention of juvenile suicide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.209.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés, has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.210.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, first of all, I would like to thank the National Youth Council of Catalonia for bringing this demand here to Parliament, that it is debated, that it is a committee within, in the framework of the Youth Commission of the Parliament of Catalonia, that it is talking about things that affect young people, and especially mental salvation and youth suicide. I think it's very important to talk, to talk in a serene way, to talk to experts and experts from different departments, and, in this case, to talk to me, from the Health Department, because they can share with Members and Members not only what they are doing, but who are the approaches, how they are working with the entities of our country and how we always try to work more every day with the entities, and from the most different departments of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Thank you, honourable Member, for this question. So, well, yes, continue to feel a priority for the Department of Health, mental salvation in general. And, obviously, it was an obvious effort in the past legislature, with Councillor Comín, not only presuppostari, with these 70_million euros apiece, which was injected into policies of mental salvation, but 26_percent was destined for youth, with an increase of 40_percent of the investment in child mental salvation. Why? So because the data shows us absolutely that we have to act on the mental salvation of infants and young people in our country. Mental health policies need to include these specific proposals for the adolescent and young population. When we talk about teenagers, and that's what everyone knows, because we've been through adolescence or because at this time we also have, or have children in the adolescent stage, it's a very complicated time of life that requires specificities. How do we treat these young people, these teenagers who are already mentally disturbed? So obviously, with interventions first, try to get rid of the community environment, avoiding institutionalization, avoiding medicalization and so we do through the fifty-eight child and youth mental health centres that we have, prioritizing attention to the child and youth population in the Head of Mental Health and Additions 2017-2020, also in the Comprehensive Care Plan for Mental Distortion and Additions 2017-2019, which depend on the Department of the Presidency, and in which there are different departments of the Generality intensifying actions with infants, adolescents and young people, which has a specific line, strategic, that is number two, that specifically says that it has to promote the integration of interventions from the family to the health services, the service of the child, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school, the school. All this is a challenge that we have and can often address..., on behalf of the Department of Health and the Government of the Government of Catalonia, as we also do through the Inter-Departmental and Inter-Sectorial Plan of Public Health, the Pinsap, with a technical commission to each territory dedicated to youth and mental health and to the prevention of addictions. Let us not forget it; whenever we speak of mental salvation, we also give mental salvation and addictions, which are very interrelated. Of course, all of this also stands out in our National Primary Care and Community Health Strategy – opening the primary care to the community –, which has made a specific document that is said The Mental Health Care Process and Additions to the Primary Care Network, in which it tries to work out different preventive measures from where the primary care is also able to collaborate to make a good prevention in mental health and to put on the same umbrella different programs that are already being done and that we want to integrate, like Connect with your children, as programs on the use of communication technologies, like Fityoung, like the NitsQ program, with the program "Drink Less, etc. These are impacts that we have in our health care system, which we want to address from primary care, and we also obviously have a new impetus for integrated work between primary care and mental health centres. We will not get out of it if we cannot integrate much better the services we have, the devices we already have at our disposal, the professionals we have available in our country for an approach to people and their environment of mental health, if we cannot coordinate them, if we cannot put them on a path, on a path of life, and follow people and their environment. And, obviously, that also includes the risk of suicide. We intend that any professional primary care may be able to explore, address, autolyte and suicide risk ideas of the people you have assigned in your community. While there may not yet be an e-CAP alert, which is the computer program, at every activation of the suicide risk code, the primary care professional must be informed that he or she can interact with the professionals we have in our mental health centers, with psychiatrists, with clinical psychologists who will obviously help him or her to follow the person. It must also be possible to explore these autolithic ideas in new episodes of depression or in recurrent depressions. This is what we can approach from the Enapisco, but obviously we have to look at how we work – in this case, because the Youth Commission has dealt with it – the prevention of suicide in our country. Let me say that in any case I am trying to make an intervention in which I say: "Listen, we are already working and, therefore, there is nothing more to do. All the contrary, is to say, as we work, as we continue to work, what are the challenges we have. But the reality is that Catalonia is aware of a long time ago, that we have programs that are pioneers in Europe, such as the Psychological Intervention Program in Autolithic Temptations, which is made up of the Day Hospital of the Tauli Park. Because what we say is: "Treatment of the temptatives. There is an estimate that for every twenty tempts one ends up feeling a suicide consumed. Therefore, if we try and if we can reduce the repetition of tempts, it is obvious that we will try and succeed in reducing the suicides consumed, which is what we all want and which is our goal. We also have the survivor care program, which is from Sant Pau, because data also shows us that for every death by suicide there are six survivors. You talked about it, Congresswoman – Congresswoman Rut Ribas talked about it – is very important as we are attentive to survivors, attention, not only to these people, but also to their closer surroundings. Since 2005, we have been part of the European Alliance against Depression. And this is very important – we are the only region in the Spanish State that is there – because depression is the first cause of suicide in our country – I do not speak only in the youth sphere, but in everything – and therefore we are absolutely determined to do so. Catalonia, therefore, has been a pioneer in suicide prevention policies, which in recent years we have been able to demonstrate that they are effective, that when we put ourselves in it, that when we are able to do a good service to the citizenry and to reduce these data that always alarm us so much. One of the motius is always our character in the system of salvation. Having universal access to our health care system also makes people vulnerable to our society have the opportunities they deserve. That can't be said for other health systems in other countries. We have this advantage and we have to take advantage of it. And obviously, because we've put in some tools to follow up on the timing. The first was the Suicide Risk Code, which agreed scientific societies, the SEM, obviously working from the Committee on Bioethics of Catalonia, because there is also a lot of ethical debate about how we approach suicide tempts, and obviously family associations. In Catalonia we were pioneers and pioneers with the suicide risk code and with a country-level registry. There is one before and one after the implementation of the suicide risk code, which began in 2004, which did not end in 2004, which obviously took time to be able to progressively deploy to our country. And what's the suicide risk code? So I will try to explain it, I can share it in this Parliament at the same time, because it seems to me that it is important to know what we have in our country and yet, above all, all the challenges that remain for us to attend to one of the great concerns, which is why this Youth Commission of the Parliament of Catalonia was brought to bear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.211.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, it's the congresswoman's return now again. Mrs. Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.212.0	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Counselor. It is important to highlight the work done by the Health Department and the coordination between the rest of the departments, and also to highlight the coordination task that has been done with the entities, and, therefore, to thank that their intervention has been done from the construction and with the will to improve. There are public policies on which people are at the centre, and the prevention of suicide must be a priority and must continue to be a constant priority in the list of public health objectives, as well as an ugly reference to their intervention. It is awareness and prevention to respond to the reality of juvenile suicide, and not to forget that Catalonia is currently the first cause of death. And it's the first cause of death in front of the fatal traffic accidents, which thanks to prevention and awareness have lowered the cases. Therefore, here we have seen how the campaigns work. We know that it's a very complex issue, that involves many reptes, changing reptes and liquids that vary with time and space, and that causes constant adaptation and compromise on a daily basis. Reference is made to the fact that there are many specificities that conform to mental salvation, mental disorders and addictions. I would also like to give an example: that a cause that can develop a mental disorder currently between young people, for example, can be cyberbullying, as well as the rest of virtual content that exists in the networks that can build a suicidal behavior. And one thing that's bad for the public last week is that one of the five young people has consulted on the Internet forms of self-harm, and we also know that more than 40 percent of the psychiatric emergencies of the Hospital Sant Joan de Deu have autolithic conduits. He talked about how autolithic conduits are, but if he could argue with us what are the backs of the department to prevent situations that can develop out of the new technologies we would also appreciate. On the other hand, I think it's interesting to highlight some of the important points that were placed on the table a couple of weeks ago..., that we were standing on the table both the National Youth Council of Catalonia and the rest of the entities in the monogram. I also take this opportunity, therefore, to put into value the task that the council does here, always bring to term this perspective and this optical, in this case with mental salvation, an optical from the youth perspective. It is true, we have the Pla Director of Mental Health and Addictions, a correct plan for the functions that I bring to term, but at times we could go further, and I don't know if it would be the option to find..., this option for the prevention of suicide behavior, as well as – now in plain reference to his last intervention – make the suicide code registry more accessible. He said that... he explained to his intervention that we were pioneers and we also wanted to know how he continued to develop, since he stayed out of time for the intervention. And I would also like to refer to a demand that is often commented upon, which is the need to introduce the youth perspective to public policies. And in mental health the most outstanding situation..., which lacks cohesion between the young and the centre of child or youth mental health, such as the CSMIJ, or the young and the centre of adult mental health, the CSMA. That is why it would be interesting to be able to study the form in which young people aged 15 to 30 find the resource they need, and, at times, also ask that there be better coordination when it is passed from one service to another, to avoid starting from scratch and losing all the work that has been done so far with the young person who has accessed the service. You also made reference in your intervention to the fact that there is a greater degree of coordination between the services; well, we believe that this way we will find the solution because the young man finds this trust with the much needed service. In the first intervention, too, it refers to invisible suicides; it speaks a little because it is considered a taboo, and this develops a stigma and discrimination, but behind the suicide there are survivors, who are family, friendship, and around it. At the moment, the follow-up that I have received is not very prominent, and we believe that now is the time to give an answer to this reality, very present and silent, and to stop hiding it at once. This is a country issue, so we need to delve deeper into the research and look wider than we're willing to do. And make reference to you that the gains are there, because from Esquerra we've always been at the side of people and putting policies... to people at the center, that this, in the end and in the end, is the essence of republicanism. Today we have spoken openly of mental salvation and the prevention of the conduct of suicide; therefore, I believe that it is the way now to stop her from hiding under the captive and to find the need to break with this stereotype and stigma and to work it in a way..., very openly. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] President, I'm done. Simply, she would advise, if she could develop a little more of us who are the backs of the department to improve these policies that we have commented on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.213.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To make the answer is the councilwoman's turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.214.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I was talking about the suicide risk code, which obviously has some clear objectives, and the first of all is to decrease mortality, increase survival, prevent the repetition of storms, enhance the continuity of care, which you have also talked about, and follow up and link to the center; while we continue to have challenges beyond the suicide risk code..., which is how we improve the detection of suicide risk from any part of the healthcare system. We are always, obviously, prioritising the care of the most at-risk people proactively with the involvement of all the services, but we need to have the capacity of the entire health and non-health system – that is to say, that it also belongs to other departments–..., to be able to make an early detection so as not to reach this first intention that the code is activated. So, what do we say? Working together with the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families; obviously with the DGAIA for what it does to CRAES, the CREIs; with the project Accompany'm, which is deinstitutionalizing, but paying very specific attention, accurate, during a certain period of time, with a therapeutic unit; obviously, also from Social Affairs and Families, which have the Phone of Childhood Response, 116 111; using all these resources that we have at the different departments of the Generality. Obviously, we're also working with the Department of Justice, and with Education, as it can't be any other way. And adapting us to the new realities – you said so. Who are these new realities we have? Who are these new additions to social networks and the screen? And here, taking advantage of the Culture Counsellor, say: how do we also take advantage of culture because it is a part of the therapy of people with mental disorders? We've already got some projects in progress. And, obviously, that connects with the community. If we want a society with equal opportunities, talking about social inclusion and equity, obviously we won't leave our young people, and obviously we won't leave our prevention. The best reversal in health that we can do is this prevention, and the best prevention that we can do is a good social texture, a good environment, a ability to give response in complicated vital moments such as adolescence. What do we say? We want a company that doesn't fail. We want a society that doesn't fail and that's why we'll improve the transition between mental health services, we'll strengthen the follow-up to the length of this life, from CDIAP to CSMIJ, from CSMIJ to CSMA, more accurate, more precise time, we don't want a change from one day to the next. The person is one. If we place it in the center, we must accompany it in its process, despite the fact that we are changing devices, either within the same department or from another. The Pla director of mental health also makes it clear. And we also want to incorporate into the Mental Health Advisor Council, which we will renew and that at the end of the year we will have new additions..., therefore additions of professionals, of persons expert in the field of children and young people. Like, obviously, the incorporation of the National Youth Council of Catalonia into the table of participation specific to mental health. And as I said before, for what it does to addictions to social networks we have commissioned a study in the Aquas, which is our Agency of Quality and Health Assessment, to know the situation in which our young people and our young people find themselves, and the impact that the new technologies, social networks have on mental health, depression... and, obviously, this also carries the risk of suicide. With a gender perspective. See how they behave, what a difference there is between boys and girls in this aspect, with the introduction of mass social networks to our youth and, obviously, adolescents. And we create an evaluation team, too, of the results of the suicide risk code program, to plan these new actions, the times we have in this suicide risk code, as we improve this early detection because it's no longer the first attempt, we don't get to this first attempt. Of course, we continue to take primary care of our country, because we need to improve this prevention of the autolithic intent, and because we need to be able to identify it before, if possible. And work around it – we talked about it – with the survivor care program. It's very hard, they're very hard episodes of life; they're working from the Hospital de Sant Pau, and the agaph as a model, to the attention of the most proper, to prevent the direct family members from having future suicide storms. Obviously, the attention to people with mental health disorders in a situation of high complexity, that we have a specific program led..., in which – yesterday we talked – in the city of Barcelona, as we agree [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , not only since the assembly, but all the departments of the Generalitat, to make it possible to have the person in the centre, in reality. I just want to add something...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.215.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.216.0	... – I finish, president – and the deputy said before: stigma. We're working on the stigma, please, of all kinds. And here the sayings, deputies and deputies... the stigma is really preventing recovery, and we're talking about people who want its recovery...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.217.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.218.0	...and a life project. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.219.0	Thank you. [[Question to the Government on the promotion of Catalan sign language]] [[300-00152/12]] The following inquiry, on the promotion of Catalan sign language; presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Mònica Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.220.0	President Torrent, Councillor of Culture, Councillor, Deputies, Deputies, Deaf People Today in the Parliament of Catalonia, Interpreter, says the dictionary of the Catalan Institute of Studies, in its fourth acceptance, that a sign is a movement, action, gesture, with which we assign an object, express a thought, give to know an order, a desire. As examples, he puts the following prayers: "If you talk to me with signs, I don't understand you, or "I signaled that you followed him. It is true that humans take the signs to communicate with each other, and that we have a wide range of them, which we can see as universal, which allows us to understand 'we need to learn spelling or writing. And we could give examples of this: "I came, "very much, "I win, "okay... [[The oradora simultaneously translates these words into sign language.]] But, in speaking of signs, I am sure that everyone sees the language of signs, and more concretely the Catalan language of signs, which at home is the linguistic system for deaf and deaf signants, as Article 1 of the Law 17/2010 puts it. In speaking of sign language, and unlike what we pointed out before, we would leave the concept of universality from the very first moment, since sign languages are different from each other, and therefore, there is no single sign language for all sign language speakers. And speaking of sign language, we'll change the "I'm looking forward to knowing you," which is certainly what this sign means in sign language, and we'll stop saying okay to say okay, which is how they do it. For two years of my life I was a student of Catalan sign language in Reus, with the curiosity of discovering and knowing a more language and complementing my studies of Catalan philology. Despite the pace of time and the little use I make of it, and which has made me forget it a lot, I still remember basic concepts that allow me to express some words and that allow me to know a reality that, one way or another, we all have to find out. As a result of my experience as an LSC student, we could clearly exemplify the non-universality of sign language with infinite terms, but I have not chosen one that I believe will significantly make us hear quickly as culture is also a source of Catalan sign language. When you learn the months of the year in sign language, many are the appreciations you make about cultural aspects: fever, with the mascara; April, because in April the water is thousand; September, with the verem, the same sign that we breed, and October, with the hunt. But the last month is what I want to do to show the differences between sign languages and their relationship to culture. This is the sign of disembarkation, which is the same one that serves Nadal, adding the sign « party in front. But, in Spanish sign language, it's curious to see how disembark is this sign, which is typical of the symbol of its nalls and its nalllenc atmosphere. Therefore, we see how culture is involved in sign language. With this appreciation in the way of example and point, we can value the cultural contribution of the Catalan sign language, just like any other language in the world, which is not alien to the culture it has at will, and that is why it is important to establish cultural policies that encourage it, that they diffuse it, that they go for it and for its learning and use. To contextualize a little, it means that the decade of the twenty-eighth century marked an earlier and later in the history of the world's sign languages, until then considered as a language menu or a support method for learning. Those manual gestures and facial expressions acquired a new consideration and a new recognition, and the Catalan sign language is no exception, just in a moment and in a context of recovery, too, of the Catalan language. Catalonia counts on the Catalan sign language, already recognized in the Statute of Autonomy of 2006, in Article 50.6, in which it explains that it must be object of teaching, protection and respect. In 2007, the State Language Law of Spanish Signs already recognizes the LSC differently from Spanish, and it is the only case in which Spanish legislation territorially determines a suitable scope for the use of the language, which contrasts and does not result from oral languages, in which a mixed language management regime is established in the same area. Three years later, the year 2010, in this Parliament is approved the Law of Catalan Sign Language, which is promulgated on June 3. With this law culminated a recognizance appeal that had begun here in 1993, with a study commission on the use of sign language, now sign language and taken over by the Catalan Institute of Studies, which is to which the LSC's linguistic authority exercise corresponds. Therefore, this language makes an important leap, since it is not treated as a means of supporting people with hearing disabilities, and is valued as a part of the cultural heritage of Catalonia. Enriching cultural heritage is vital to keeping it alive. And the Catalan sign language, used by approximately 25,000 people, between signers and conjuncts of hearers who relate to it, such as now family, friends, teachers or interpreters, makes a significant contribution to it, as does the Catalan language. It's a language that doesn't feel, but it's visible, and learning it makes you know a new linguistic dimension that's very interesting. With the Catalan sign language, and its learning and use is aware that it is a language with all communicative functions and with specific linguistic structures that are determined by means of gestures and signs. As any other language alive, it is constantly evolving, and has its own features and adapts to our concepts to fit the society of knowledge. All that can be expressed in oral language can also be expressed in sign language, and therefore also through permanent contact with other languages, but above all by observing the world surrounding it, the sign language is constantly subject to change and incorporation. Fruit of the Law 17/2010, promulgated, as we said previously, on June 3, is created the Social Council of the Catalan Sign Language, which is formally constituted on February 21, 2013 under the coordination and administrative support of the General Directorate of Linguistic Policy. It is an organ of advice, consultation and social participation in the linguistic policy deployed or promoted by the Government of the Generality in relation to sign language, and has the functions of studying and analysing, at the instigations of the Government, questions related to the promotion and dissemination of Catalan sign language, bearing in mind the principle of a non-sexist use of sign language. In addition, she advises the Government on the appropriate means to complete the intended objectives of Law 17/2010, of June 3, of sign language, and evaluates the objectives and results of the actions related to Catalan sign language promoted by the Administration. Recently, as you know, she will advise, this past June 19 was the first of the two annual meetings held by this council, to discuss with representatives of the sector about the state and the needs of the LSC. We, as a parliamentary group, also held a fruitful meeting with Fesaca, last April, to listen to the demands they have as a collection and to overcome them and to try to work them folded. Many are the petitions they make, and many different areas, but in this inquiry we have focused only on the cultural aspect. And that is why, she would advise, we would like to know from Juntes per Catalunya the prospects for the future for the Catalan sign language and the actions that will take place after the end of their department. The legitimate councillor, Lluís Puig, said a few days ago that the triad «understand, « estimate, « trust the bond firmly with culture and with the country. And when he pulls out, he doesn't make it any harder or harder than the punch. We understand, estimate and trust, therefore, the sign language, and we continue to link it to culture. Many thanks, she will advise, and also many thanks to the deaf people today in the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.221.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, has the word the Counsellor of Culture, the lady Maria Àngela Vilallonga. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.222.0	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mrs Mònica Sales. Welcome, the people who accompany us, the deaf people of Catalonia, the interpreter, and the people of the Department of Linguistic Policy. Thank you so much for being all of us here today. Well, I'm glad you asked me this question, because I think it's very important the work being done by the government on the implementation of the Catalan sign language. Before exposing the battery of important activities driven by the department in the Catalan sign language, used, as the honourable Member said, for some 25,000 people in the country, I would like to recall a feeling that the philosopher Martin Heidegger published in a work that, in an illuminating way, is entitled Charter on Humanism. Heidegger wrote: "Language is the home of being. Language, as at home, is a very powerful idea that, apart from other specialized interpretations, allows us to understand that people build themselves as such from language. On the one hand, it is thanks to language that our unique and individual thoughts can be possible. From the other side, it is thanks to language that our thoughts intertwine in units of feeling that they have a social origin and destiny. Now a while ago, the Health Counsellor spoke of the projects that we have together with the Department of Culture. Well, we have to get there, too, to have common projects between the Department of Culture and the Department of Health to make the Catalan sign language more visible. To consult, for example. Even though there are already projects that have been completed, especially in television pants. But, well, we will continue to take care of this interaction with the Department of Health, because, like salvation, culture is a universal and fundamental right. One deals with the body; the other with the Esperit, and not just with the Esperit, as is the case with the Catalan sign language. Language as the general instrument, we all know, requires a concrete encoding; that is, requires a language. As you said, honourable Member, the Catalan sign language is the language of many of Catalonia's deaf and deaf signifiers, and it is a language recognized in Catalonia from the Statute of Autonomy of the Year 2006. The Catalan sign language, to which I will refer from now on with the LSC logos, is precisely the materialization of a process that makes this language house still inhabited, still habitable, viscuous and, ultimately, humanized. Since I agreed to run the Culture Council, I have not been tired of repeating and repeating to myself a series of basic principles that we believe should be paramount in the action of our department. The principles that I am interested in highlighting today are these: to make it very clear that culture is a right, that culture must promote equal opportunities, that culture must allow us to be citizens, that culture must be one of the basic factors of social cohesion and that it must assume in a frank and uncomplicated way the defence of the Catalan language as a language of use and social identity. Well, in the battery of protection and extension initiatives of Catalan sign language we find that all these guiding principles, along with many more, are concentrated, are highly present. When we speak of the LSC we speak, as you, Mrs. MP, have also said and very well, of a living, dynamic, constantly evolving linguistic thing that generates structures, that grows, that reinfluences at the same time as it radiates, that incorporates new cultural and scientific concepts, that integrates neologisms and, ultimately, contributes to configuring individual thinking, social communication and the society of knowledge. Promote codification, we instruments for training and normalization, and LSC social sensitivity actions activates many springs of this government, which, I want to remind you another time, governs. It implies decisive progress following the mandate of the Statute. The State recognizes the LSC and provides that the public authorities must guarantee its use and conditions in order to achieve the equality of persons with deafness who choose this language, and this language must be object of teaching, protection and respect. Parliament passed the law in 2010. The Directorate General for Linguistic Policy, which has commissioned the promotion of Catalan language, also has, of course, the competence to increase knowledge of the reality of the LSC and to extend 'n'us. In order to achieve this objective, the Social Council of the Catalan Language was established at February 2013, as an advisory body, consultation and social participation in the Government's language policy in relation to the LSC. In this sense, since the year 2015, the General Directorate of Linguistic Policy has been promoting the project of a basic vocabulary in LSC, which it does with the advice of the Federation of Deaf Persons of Catalonia, Fesoca. At this time the vocabulary has 1,073 terms, which will increase to 1,500, the first dimension of a basic lexicon, with the forecast, however, to fix and collect 1,650 basic vocabulary terms grouped into thematic fields. Photographic sequences and more than a thousand video sequences have been developed. It's impressive, the work of this... I'd like everyone to see it on the channel of the Department of Culture, of the General Directorate of Linguistic Policy. To date 1,074 terms have been edited, and there are 424 in the course of publication. All people who use Catalan sign language for individual or family emperors know that these terms operate a universe of intimate, family and social communication of incalculable transcendence and expansion. The policy of impulses to the Catalan sign language has led us to embark on another great project: the definition of the levels of linguistic competence, according to the common European mark of reference. Our action also involves recognizing the people and entities working in the promotion, study and dissemination of the Catalan Sign Language, which is mainly covered by the Catalan Sign Language Award of the Generality of Catalonia; we will celebrate the third edition. This policy of impulses also calls for the creation of lines of subsidies, lines destined for physical persons, private entities without the purpose of work, universities and businesses. It also involves encouraging its formation, especially to the staff of the Administration of the Generality, and in a priority way for units of direct action to the public, in order to guarantee two deures of the Government: accessibility and inclusive policies. Linguistics Policy promotes dissemination actions, which aims to crystallize in publications such as the information brochure of the Catalan Sign Language, the publishing of lexicon disclosures or the presentation video, which has been available for two years now to this Catalan Language website of the General Directorate of Linguistics Policy, and with a YouTube-friendly channel. And I highlight as recent action the signed and subtitled Catalan version of Law 17/2010 of the Catalan Sign Language, promoted by Linguistic Policy, which presented this day of the last plenary of the social council celebrated last week, which also mentioned the deputy. We all know that the languages do not fall apart or die if they have social utility and a legal framework that recognizes them. From the government we understand sign language as an irreplaceable part of our linguistic and cultural heritage. In this sense, there are well-established and valuable social conquests, such as the presence of sign language in public services and acts of the Generalitat; in the court of justice of Catalonia there is an interpretation; the press wheels of the Government are also a fan of interpretation; the morning information and the evening information of the Channel 3/24 of Television of Catalonia. And from the Directorate General for Linguistic Policy is coordinated and planned through the Director General, the French Ester, to which I want to aggravate the great task he makes. Thanks to everyone for their participation: the Catalan Institute of Studies, the Federation of Deaf Persons of Catalonia, the Association of Sign Language Interpreters and Guide-Enterprets of Catalonia. We count on everyone, and also with you, Mrs Sales, to continue working without pause and with as much pressure as we can for the Catalan sign language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-26-3401.223.0	Thank you very much. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] All right, so when this inquiry is over, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
