ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Vagina occupying your escons, please. Let's resume the session. [[Question to the Government about the papers of Salamanca]] [[300-00078/12]] The next item is an inquiry, in this case an inquiry to the Government on the papers of Salamanca, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. The question is put to the honourable Member, Mr Ten. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.2.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, Mr Josep Cruanyes, Mr Pilar Rebaque, of the Commission of the Dignity, public accompanying us, very good morning. I have two minutes for the 'papers of Salamanca', but excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, we would do no good with two minutes. Perhaps we can only get to position ourselves in the false complexity of these papers, which means entering full into how difficult it is to claim to the State in terms of memory and dignity. The great activator of the return of the papers is said to be the Commission of the Dignity, a civil society to whom I recognise in parliamentary chamber his help, compromises, strength and witnesses of democratic radicality and perseverance. Because, Counselor Borrás, if dignity is the right to have rights, we are faced with a complaint that in some respects has increased indignity; I mean that in some respects it has denied the right to recover what by warboat was confiscated from Catalonia, it was already citizens or citizens, it was already the Generality, it was already entities or organizations or it was already other administrations. I literally quote the National Archives of Catalonia: "Almost eight decades have passed since the beginning of the fold. There are already four generations involved or interested – opinions, pairs, nets and besnets – and various governments – of the right-wings and left-wings – and various regimes – republic, dictatorship, monarchy – who have intervened in one way or another in the matter. Communication media of all kinds have been extended. The claim and the controversy have been motivating many headlines. However, the full recovery of the papers has not been completed. Perhaps someone suffers from a lack of obsolescence of vocabulary and concepts with which they want words to be worn out and that we remain immune to their meaning and values. But it won't be like that, let's keep going. What European democracy would any question like this between administrations of the type that were to be resolved, not after almost eight decades and different governments and different regimes, as we have said, but after thirteen years of the law that they approved in 2005? Is this real Spain? The timeline of the complaint is tough and bean, and we'll sum it up. They know that they go from Senator Josep Benet's initiatives of 78th year or of the deputy Antoni de Senillosa to the proposals rejected for the PP and for the PSOE not adding anything or allying – when the policies fan of techniques, there are already – unit of archive. And in this chronology we have to enunciate the absolute majority of the PP, the mass demonstrations against and the blockage of the theme. From 2002, the claim of the papers is explained above all by the creation of the Commission of the Dignity, which, to the complaint of the documents of the Generality, also adds to that of entities and individuals. The commission sought and got international support, more to drive campaigns in Catalonia and throughout the state. In December 2004, the Committee of Experts created for the patronage of the General Archives of the Spanish Civil War condemned the confiscation of documents for repressive purposes and the right to reparation that was going on. And he also endorsed the legitimacy of the complaints for the return of the documentary funds to the Government of Catalonia, and also the return of the documentation to the identified individuals. The crux of the matter is whether or not we give value to the confiscations of war and with a repressive purpose. There's no excuse for a bad payer, in that answer. It can't be. The May 2005 was approved a preliminary draft of return, and approved in September for the Congress of Deputies, with the vote against the PP, party that at June had given support to a multiplicity demonstration against return. The approved law enclosed the documents of the Republican and private generalities, but not those of the assemblies. Shortly after the beginning of the transfer, the National Audience dictates a very precautionary suspension, which quickly raises the generation of 2006. The 31st generation arrived in the National Archives of Catalonia the first documents from Salamanca, five hundred ligalls. In March 2006, the Commission called for the return of all the documents of private individuals and private entities that remained pending, but since July 2007 the managements remained pending until May 2008. In August, the police-poiled documentation arrived in the Generalitat pending since 2006, and from the beginning of December, private documentation began to arrive. A new shipment arrived in July 2011: 365 lligalls. The access to the Spanish Government of the People's Party in November 2011, in which they still remained in the Salamanca Archives about 25_percent of the documents claimed, will bring us encouragement, but it will not continue the entire return. The February of 2012 returned eighty-five leagues with private and private documents – excuse me, because the chronology is arduous and treacherous. One year later, on February 2013, the Constitutional Court issued a ruling dismissing the appeal filed for the Junta de Castella y Lleó against the Law of restitution of documents stripped of the franchise. While in April the Minister of Culture will declare the return of papers in two months, the June of the 14th March back, taking part in the 2013 judgment, and will declare that he would only return those documents with known owners or their successors. In 2015, a new dispute arose, with the publication of the "papers of Ávila", which, in the words of Dr. Josep Cruanyes, are the documents requested from the Office of the Government of Catalonia in Paris, when the Nazis occupied the city, and which is the reserved archive of the Government of the Government of the University of Catalonia, where, by the way, there has been very sensitive and valuable documentation: for example, a document on the contacts of the Government to the International Red Cree, of prisoner intercanceers; another document of the Government and the Committee of Non-intervention of the Society of Nations; there is also much documentation on the performance and problems between the Catalan Government and that of the Republic. Europe can't hear that acts of violence are breaking out of Nazi occupation – it's gross! – there hasn't been any returned yet. I will not be too much, Members and Members, but one thing is Salamanca's own papers, and I would like to make it clear that another thing is the broad concept of Salamanca's papers as they are all about to return, return to their owners, physical and legal persons, to their hereus or to their territories. The concept "papers of Salamanca" is more untimely than the one describing the law; it is a concept that, beyond this law, would have to suppress all papers pending the return of Salamanca, Avila or, if so, of Quintanilla of Onesimo or of Querforadat. He will advise, this chamber should agree that, in applying the laws we already have and in applying the future law of historical memory that we have undertaken to recast in this Parliament, it is armory and we commit ourselves to ending all the "papers of Salamanca, metaphorically speaking, and we return everything from the motxilla of the past years to the spats: reparations, were, victims, confiscations, disappeared... Will the Council, the mismanagement, the obstruction and the political flag of the non-return of the "papers of Salamanca" by parties and Spanish institutions not be understood as another felicitous demonstration of the mistransition and the little plurinational sense of this State? I'm afraid – I'm afraid – I am. Or, worse still, a demonstration of the little sense of plurality, simply, of the Spanish State and democratic sensibility. If they don't return what they took from us, is that why they see us as being from the other side? Aren't we all at the expense of legality and democracy, reconciliation, concord and restoration of historical memory? On July 26, 2018, the indefatigable, indistinct Mr Cruanyes of the Commission of the Dignity, wrote to Minister Guirao. Counselor, please ask what point we are in the complaint about the "papers of Salamanca". Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, to answer, of the Councillor of Culture, Mrs. Laura Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.4.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselors, Members..., Mr. Ten, I thank you very much for this state of the question that has provided us, because you are not simple people, as you said to us, to address in two minutes the complex chronology of the stretches, of the systematic incompliments, of the delays and the excuses that Mr. Josep Cruanyes and Mr. Pilar Rebaque know so well, members of the Board of the Commission of the Dignity that today accompany us, as the deputy has said, and to whom I also wish to greet in a special way. And, beyond this formal greeting from this Faristol, I would like to make a public recognition of the work of the Commission of Dignity, just as an example of the impulse and the strength that a civil initiative can take when it is well oriented, well-founded, and of the responsibility that it assumes for the Government to be at the height of the legitimate demands of our society at the time of gathering them, and also to make them ours, in order to be able to work folded in the same direction. It seems to me that we all agree that only when we know how to stand face to face from the unit, civil society and government, is when we have managed to make our voice felt in an absolutely clear way. And, all that said, the interbanks and the difficulties, as Mr. Ten has so well glossed, have been and are unfinished. The honourable Member has said enough about dignity. And it is not in vain that the commission that has given the request for the return of the "papers of Salamanca" is said just like that, "of dignity. But not for dignity, because the dignity of those who suffered repression and repression is kept intact. Not "for the dignity of those we fight, for we have all dignity, we have not lost it at any time. What is discussed here, if in any case, is to return, by dignity, a documentation that pertains to the people, to the citizens and to the entities and to the Administration, local or national, of Catalonia. D'accord accord a que la prescripta la Llei 21/2005, de 17 de novembre, que se titre aí: « Law of restitution to the Generality of Catalonia of the documents seized on the occasion of the Civil War kept in the National Archives of the Spanish Civil War and of creation of the documentary center of the historical memory, according to this law, between the years 2006 and 2014 have returned to Catalonia, originating from Salamanca, 1,480,000 folis in 1,674 boxes, to more than nine hundred books, two posters, three maps and two flags. The ciphers, in effect, are spheres; they speak to us of a colossal spoli. 96 percent of the funds returned to Catalonia have already been returned to their owners: institutions, entities and individuals. From the moment of receipt of the documentation, the Government has not ceased to be subject to requests for documentation claims. And now, from the National Archives of Catalonia, a sustained effort has been made to locate the legitimate holders of this remaining 4_per_cent, some 59,000 documents, and to start the corresponding return shipments. If we take into account, therefore, that the restitution process is open and that we constantly have resolution dispatches in progress, we cannot fail to surprise 'ensenormament' – or perhaps we should not be surprised by people, at these uprisings – that before yesterday the candidate of the Popular Party in Barcelona, Mr. Bou, signed the manifesto of Save the Archive of Salamanca, the association created by a gentleman who was sadly famous in full 155 ventilating the slogan « Puigdemont, in prison, and the documents, in Salamanca, that as a slogan is enough in the background and in the form, and that it was about the grandmother that the Generalita has sent 400,000 documents in an illegitimate way to Salamanca, as if the Generalita had been fully objected to during the Civil War no longer issued any documents. That the strippers have to go through the strippers' necks, to say the least. And that on the part of those who are not tired of repeating that we want to rewrite the story. Mr Bou's accession to the surrealist manifesto of the 400,000 presumed documents that he has never seen is in perfect consonance with the motion approved to the Senate, with the votes in favour of the PP and Forum Asturias, the past 22 of generation, which urged the Government to refrain from making any documentary delivery and to return to the Salamanca Archives all the documentation improperly received since 2006. I don't know what they expect us to do, frankly. Someone is really very confident and has not known yet that who has been waiting for him for years, for eighty years, that the documentation that was stolen from him has been returned to him, we are. I would like to think that among the groups of those who are confident there is neither the Parliamentary Group of the PSC nor the current government of the PSOE. Mr Bruguera was very interested in knowing which initiatives had been initiated by the Government in order to give effect to the restitution of Salamanca's papers to its legitimate holders. So he informed us, with a written question, that he entered the Bureau of Parliament on June 6, 2018, five days after Mr Pedro Sánchez took possession of the carrec. I am convinced that his capture has not changed, and that his parliamentary group will face the Government at the hour of demanding the full restitution of this archival background. Because the reality is that the spoli is kept. Salamanca continues to have about thirty thousand sheets, the return of which was approved by the Joint Government-General Commission. In 2014, the Government of the Generality filed an appeal with the National Court against the Ministry of Culture for failure to comply with the 2 June agreements, and the 2 June agreements of the same Court sentenced the return of this requested documentation. But Minister Méndez de Vigo filed a cassation appeal against the ruling of the National Court, and two years and a half later we still await the ruling of the Supreme Court. That's it. The Supreme Court now has a job trying to square the circle of rebellion without violence, but Salamanca still retains a plethora of material belonging to Catalonia, and the return of which is pending approval in the bilateral commission, documentation in public order generated from the 37th, the funds confiscated from various Catalan Mason Leagues or the documentation forming part of the "General Cause on Red Dominion in Spain". The Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage of the Department of Culture has requested by letter this week the convening of the Government-General Committee, which is not meeting since March 2017, just to unravel the negotiation on the return of this documentation. Because the spoli is kept, and it goes much further, in reality, than Salamanca. I thank the honourable Member for making the most of Salamanca's papers as a nocturnal, and not as the concrete reality of the thousands of leaflets that belong to Catalonia and that are still kept in the city of La Celestina. Because to talk about the papers of Salamanca is to talk about the reality of a coat of arms that is not limited to the lap of the Civil War, a coat of arms that begins, as at least in 1714, when the Royal Archives of Barcelona, created in 1318, and which contains the historical archive of the General of Catalonia, is to say, our Generality, from the very beginnings of this institution, was usurped to the Generality and re-baptized with the Bourbon name of Arxiu of the Crown of Aragó. When I met with the minister in October of last year, I made it effective, among many other complaints, the execution of the additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which is, of course, rarely contested by the Constitutional Court, according to which the foundations of Catalonia located in the Arxiu de la Corona d'Aragó integrate into the system of arxius of Catalonia. This change of ownership, which should have been automatic, has been waiting nine years for the moment to come. And so I complained. A politician, therefore, who is also projected beyond the 39th, because the documentation of the Republican Generality that managed to escape, as you said now, from the Franco raid, and that therefore did not end in Salamanca, went to exile and was captured by the Nazis in Paris and delivered to the Franco government, who deposited it to the General Military Archives of Ávila. During the October meeting with the minister I also asked him about 4,500 fulls and some two hundred photographs and plans pertaining to our Generality, that one day they will also meet with the funds that we have already recovered from Salamanca. You see, illustrious Members: Salamanca does not end in Salamanca, nor does the splendor of our archives are confined only to the three events that took place between 36 and 39. That few believe that they are the tremendous gestures of those who under the banner of historical memory pretend to move cadavers of dictators, but in change it costs them so much to give up archives that they are authentic booties of war and resist so much to restore documentation, that it is indispensable to build the memory report. I will end with a phrase of the German philosopher Sloterdijk, translated into Catalan by Raül Garrigasait. He says: "It would be wrong to think that the archive is just the hell of the writings where everything is under the thumb and the grit. It's also a place of gratitude. From the gratitude with which justice begins to what has preceded us. Arxius, justice and gratitude. That's what it's about. These are the authentic instruments of memory, and I have the conviction that this government will spare no effort to make it effective. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on the priorities of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families in relation to social policies]] [[300-00079/12]] The next question is about the priorities of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families, in relation to social policies. Presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Pomera, the honourable Member Ms Marta Ribas explained the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.6.0	Thank you, good morning. Before starting with this question, I wanted to express, on behalf of my parliamentary group, the indignation and condemnation of the statements of the Archbishop of Tarragona, which are the fruit of a bad time, to the abuse of minors by rectors of his diocese. Abusing a minor is a crime, and who covers it up or who, feeling familiar, doesn't report it, isn't an accomplice. Counseller, in his first appearance in Parliament as a counselor, has already placed him, my parliamentary group, three priorities, as regards social matters, childhood and youth, especially the need to review the system of protection to children and to put sufficient resources and attack the poor child; second priority, guaranteed citizenship and integral compliment of the law, and of its primary sense, the law, and, third priority, dependence and attention to the great people, and the urgency of responding to the unbearable situation of the shortage of places of residence, but also of the situation, of the quality of these residential places. You've already taken eight months to the core, and we haven't seen any advances in these areas. My parliamentary group has also placed these very three priorities among the two presuppositional priorities that we publicly explained and that we put down the table to discuss assumptions with your government. The answer, which he did not negotiate, which we have rejected on the part of his department, on these three proposals which affect his department, is in order to weep. And I go into detail in these three concrete priorities that we have set. With regard to childhood, our proposal for a presupposition measure on this issue is to double the presupposition intended directly for child protection, this 2019. It is a proposal that was voted in this Parliament from the point of view that I myself defended about the poor child a few months ago. It's a proposal that was also discussed in the Children's Hall last December. It is a proposal that leads us to move progressively towards the European average at the expense of this subject, in reverse of this subject. Did you do anything like that? They plant things in this sense in the presupposition for 2019, to end the shame of living knowing that one_of_each_three infants in our country is at risk of poverty? No, no, Is it foreseen, in the assumptions of 2019, to double the assumptions of childhood? No, no, They foresee an increase, yes, according to them they have informed us, according to them they have explained to us, of some 40_million euros. Basically, to deal with an issue in which they know that we fully agree that it is also a priority, and that it is also a matter of these childhood assumptions, that it is a matter of dealing with the need to act as well, with all the rights, children and young migrants who are not accompanied to arrive in our country, but that 40_million are absolutely insufficient to equip the strategy to embrace and include the young person who migrates alone, who has just agreed with all the agents of the sector and with the local world. As you intend to do, only with these 40_millions, which are already insufficient for this issue, more importantly, the need also to review the entire child protection system, which was already saturated and already too tense and, more importantly, to tackle the issue of the poor child. For us, absolutely insufficient. Perhaps she will tell me that the poor child thinks to attack her with another tool that also depends on her department, which is the guaranteed income of citizenship. Second priority that we have placed on it: we are talking about guaranteed income from citizenship. Guaranteed income did not arise to be a minimum income of insertion with a little more quantity that is paid to the beneficiaries. The guaranteed income of citizenship came from an ILP, precisely in the epochs when the minimum income of insertion was applied, in which it was seen that it was not sufficient, that it was in fact absolutely insufficient to deal with the poverty that exists in our country, and to radically change the logic of redistribution of returns and from the base. Therefore, zero cophoism, counselor, in which just now, a year and a half after applying the guaranteed income of citizenship, we are again with the figures of beneficiaries of the minimum income of insertion. The figures that you just made public a few days ago, of 29,000 beneficiaries, beneficiary families, are the first to be a little bit above those that had reached the minimum income of insertion in the years 2016, 2015. I understand that we do not want to stay here, that the guaranteed income of citizenship is not born to be this, that what interests us is to increase the number of people and families who are benefited by the guaranteed income of citizenship, because there are still thousands and thousands who are under this minimum of basic sufficiency for the most basic expenses, worth the redundancy, of a family, who do not include or inhabit. What we have proposed as a presuppositional priority was to increase the guaranteed income of citizens by EUR 200_million for this 2019. Why 200_million? You know perfectly well that when we were debating the law, since the council, at that time, of Mrs Bassa, it was calculated that the guaranteed income of citizenship required 500_million euros per year. We're just over 250 dollars spent on 2018. 200 million more won't even reach that 500. Do they include that in the assumptions? What they've explained to us is not. With enough effort, they provide for an increase of 50_million euros. Fifty_millions– let's put ourselves in the context – I mean, in reality, an increase of, like a lot, 10-12 million, because 40 have already been spent and external holidays in 2018, in guaranteed income of citizens, that have come from presuppositional changes. Therefore, the real increase for 2019 that they are planning to make guaranteed citizenship, is very generous, we might think it covers the progress of the amount that is to be increased. Obviously, for other reasons including increasing the number of people who will collect it. And dependence. You have a list of 18,500 people waiting for a place of public residence, because they already have a recognized right to hold it. You can spend years waiting for this square. In Barcelona, it has been estimated that in the middle of two and a half years. Or die before you have it. Meanwhile, what do they end up needing? Home help. He's covering for joints, joints. Have they increased the amount from the government? Yes, but it is that the Barcelona Assembly had to increase it a 50_per_cent, with its own funds, the SAD, in order to be able to cover all these thousands of people who are at home and waiting for the place of residence. What do you think you're doing this year to settle it? We prioritized, we put a presuppositional priority: half the list of waits for residences with sufficient resources to create places of public residence. Will they do it? For what they've told us, no. They do not only intend to maintain what was already in the assumptions of 2017 and extended to 2018 from zero euros in totxo, to build public residence places, but also to reduce the amount of money to zero euros to arrange residence places. Therefore, his project, for this year 2019, according to what they have explained to us since his department, is to increase the waiting list of public residence square and the waiting time of these 18,500 people who are already waiting for this square. That's embarrassing, counselor, embarrassing. And this time don't tell us it's the State's fault. Tell me, as a social advisor, how can you defend, before these 18,500 people, that there is no need for general state assumptions to increase the expenditure by 60_per_cent per dependency. Tell me about it. We need a rethink, with fewer residences, surely, less institutionalization, to tackle the issue of dependency with another focus, yes, but that's not two days ago, counselor. And these people have recognized the right to a place of residence, and you are planning not to give them an answer, double zero: zero_euros to build it, zero_euros to arrange it. Look, counselor, this inquiry requires that you explain to us which are your real political priorities for this 2019. Our group has placed three political priorities in its department that obviously need to be reflected in assumptions: revised and courageous policies to cope with the saturation of the child protection system, to attack the child's poor by doubling the child's presupposition; to increase families benefiting from guaranteed income from citizenship by 200_million euros more, and to reduce to half the list of residences waiting for the people who have already recognized this right via the Law of Dependence by making more places. The answer we have for the moment from his department is: "No, no, no, no. Not to reduce the child poverty, not to increase the people benefited by the guaranteed income of citizens, not to reduce the waiting lists in dependence. Where are your social assumptions and who are your political priorities for this 2019? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, the Lord El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.8.0	Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, let's come up with a theme by theme, since you have reduced it to three aspects. I understand that we are in Parliament, I understand that the Faristol has a theatrical point, but I do ask for a point, like at least, that we are more relaxed when you say that we do not want to reduce the poor child or we do not want to... Because I believe that, in the end, between all of us, we end up bringing value to words and values to policies – and values to policies. From here, childhood. In politics, the General Directorate of Child and Adolescent Care is the general direction that grows more presupposedly than the whole department feels... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Cid, you can tell me no. I think I know the assumptions and the assumptions of my department. I think I know her. At least, I think I know a little bit about it, and it's the general direction that grows the most; percentagely, it's the general direction that grows the most. The same way that the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families grows is the second department that grows the most. I think that during this 2018 no one can doubt that when there were any need for childhood policies, because we want to see them in their globality and not to secrete according to the type of attention that follows the collection that we attend in childhood, has happened. And for the first time in history, it happened. Until now, the Government of the Government had passed contingency funds for childhood policies. The first Government of the Generality that has passed Contingency Funds for childhood policies has been in which I am involved in coordinating the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families. And this is an element that we have very clearly. And we will. From here, we grow very – very – powerful and we grow very powerful around a line. On a line that went..., we have not spoken to you on any occasion as a Member and we share – and I think more groups in Parliament share it – that is all the reflection around the model of childhood policies. They also know why we have had a monographic ple on childhood and they are very clear that our perspective – and I think that in some cases they share it – is that childhood support policies go beyond the Department of Child and Adolescent Care, and go beyond the Department of Children, Adolescents and Youth that I am looking to coordinate. The Department of Education does childhood policies, the Department of Health does childhood policies, the Department of Justice does childhood policies, because the ponds do not exist and we will place them. And, finally, if I may, the xifra in childhood policies, the growth in childhood policies of the assumption that we have worked from the department and from the generality is higher than the growth that is planted throughout the State in childhood policies. It's also to situate it. Thirty million in the whole state. I do, too, because I sometimes find here the point of rigor and hardness that surround the Generality's premise and that do not surround the General State's assumption. And so in the second theme: guaranteed income and dependence – the second and the third. Dependency is a subjective right, deputy? Is dependence a subjective right? I'm asking. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah? How does a government have a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a subject have to do? Make sure your finances go beyond the assumptions, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no... now we're going in. Yes, or no? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, okay. If it is a subject right and a government has to secure its financing beyond assumptions, how is it that this assumption that you are defending, layer and space, does not raise the subject right? The 500_million increase in dependence that the Government of the State does not set up above or that it would have to pay to Catalonia to ensure the guaranteed minimum. And to ensure the compliment of the law, which is 50-50 of the benefits. In Catalonia we have a supposition that exceeds 900_million euros of which more than 700 is left by the Generality and 185, now I say it as a memory– one hundred_width and ease–, is left by the State. If you complete the law, which is 50_per_cent, it would mean 700. We've eaten all the presupposition you've been planning for the whole state over 200 million more. This in a subject right. Where does no one discuss the right subject around the performance at the time? Doesn't anyone discuss the right subject around pensions? So sometimes I ask myself what happens when we're normalized..., and legally and legitimately every parliamentary group in Congress negotiates it and seeks it, but this rigour that they ask us not to ask for it at a premise that they have already said yes. With the least of me on the outside – with the least of me on the outside. He says: "Yes, because the biggest game that has grown in the state's presupposition is that of the Ministry of Defense. And we can laugh a lot, but I don't like it. Just like the 30_millions that are distributed for the situation of teenagers and young migrants without references. Because, of course, we haven't spoken on more than one occasion, we haven't talked to the Barcelona City Council, which you've given me, which is how the state government is left with the AMIF when it doesn't do anything about inclusive and inclusive policies. Thirty million, huh? For the whole of the state. That's the reality. Only in contingency funds – in contingency funds – in this 2018, we have destined the double. And here comes the guaranteed rent. The guaranteed income is a subject right and we explained it to them: we will complete the subject right. You place me at 500_million euros, and as we were partners in the poll, I know perfectly well, I was a rapporteur, I also explain that the 500_million euros calculation is..., it was, first of all, a calculation that you can never have it adjusted at all because you have to see..., but it was planted and planted the department at the time of its total deployment of the law. For something all the parliamentary groups we agreed on the law we agreed on a gradual deployment, and the total deployment of the law is not laid down in the law in 2019. I'm also saying that because at the end of the day with Mr. Moreno we were discussing, he also took up the issue of the dead. I know that sometimes you try to explain things, you explain them, and they don't care, they don't listen, but I explained it. We've cut back more than half and we're still cutting back. In Andalusia in the same period 51,500 people. I'm saying it's because sometimes we seem to be an island. I'm telling you, too. But also, man, if I explain to you that the middle age in which dependence is valued is eighty-two years, that the hope of life in this country is eighty-three years, that 80_percent of the deaths that are given while valuation is being made are given in the first three months I think that explains that the situation is more of an element that we need to correct in advance because people are more likely to value it than at the time when they are already in a situation of great dependence. And this is one of the issues we have to face. I think we have discussed it on many occasions and will tend to... – because I see that my time is running out – we will have opportunities to discuss it, on more than one occasion about which we have to focus on the policies of aging; in which way we have to change the system; in which way it cannot only be the institutionalized and chronicled response of the residencies to which we give the answer. And soc absolutely aware that we need places of residence but our bet has been very clear, the SAD. Our bet was very clear, the increase of the PIA. Because, of course, no one will appreciate it, but we've increased 100_million euros that we didn't compromise with the Association and the Federation of Municipalities around the program contract. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And that went, basically, to the basic right team...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.9.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.10.0	And he's basically gone to power...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.11.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.12.0	To the reply we have just discussed the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. It's the rendezvous of the Member of Parliament again. Mrs. Ribas, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.14.0	Counselor, do not deny, therefore, that they only provide 40_million euros of increase per child, that they will basically go by subject of attention to children and young migrants not accompanied and that, in fact, is already insufficient for this issue, because they have already spent this amount allocated to 2018 of which they had assumed. And, therefore, in reality it is not an increase that they are planning for 2019 or so alone on this issue, but that obviously they do not foresee any increase to improve the rest of the system of protection at the infancy of the problems they had nor to make new courageous and effective policies respect the poor child. Do not deny me that they are only increasing 10_million euros to the guaranteed income of citizens respect what has already been spent, executed in the year 2018. And don't deny that you're putting in zero euros to create public places of residence in Catalonia in this very year, by construction, by concertation. Percentage can tell me what you want. In fact, his argument that his department is the one that grows the most, no longer only makes me cry respect the data he has given us from his department, but respects how it must be the assumption of the rest of the departments. If this is insufficient for the social issue – and its highest percentage – what we are talking about respects the rest of the priorities of Catalonia's citizenship for these 2019s and the proposals that are being presupposed by its government. Subjective rights, obviously. Of course, we claim it from the state government that I am pleased with the law of dependence. We have managed to negotiate that there is an increase of 60_per_cent in the assumptions at the expense of dependency. We've come all the way here, counselor. It's a lot, it's a lot more than it's obviously been in the governments of the People's Party, but even more than the Zapatero government had ever done. Go ahead and negotiate. You also negotiate an extra increase for the topic of dependency and for the minimum interprofessional wage compensated for the special work centres. You also negotiated in accounts to make a statement to the totality of the general assumptions of the State. How can you defend that your party is against these assumptions which for the first time begin to compensate for that injustice which is ugly with the subject, for example, of the dependence of Catalonia? Certainly, the right subject is also the guaranteed income of citizenship. Yeah. And you've got an anticipated progress to the law. Yeah. With respect to the amount that is charged to the people who have the right to collect it, it does not respect who has the right to collect it. Do you know that in Barcelona, by income level, there are fifty-thousand people who would be right at the guaranteed income of citizens, and now there are only three thousand headlines? The right subject is the amount of people who complete the conditions for guaranteed citizenship income and their government is not complete. And let me add another question, and without being relaxed for nothing, because we are absolutely indignant. We are very concerned about the ineptness or bad faith with which the case of the five public residences of Barcelona that were managed for the UTE OHL Ingesan - Asproseat is being resolved. The misservice of this company, denigrating the user, the workers and the workers, provoked public complaints, provoked mobilizations, caused you to create a platform that you are represented here today, a motion to the plenary in the last legislature that I defended myself, issuing sanctioners of the department for maltreatments, cases transferred to the prosecution and finally withdrew the service, to this company, of five public residences in Barcelona. They've been cheating for a year and I'm about to do the contest. There was a 155 for the middle, that's right, but it was just a few months, huh? Finally there's the bidding contest. And it looks like they're reassigned to this same company at least one of the five residences that were removed from it. How'd they get out of the locks, counselor? What happened here? Because it's not for the economic issue, if it's awarded; it's not for the Contract Law; it's because it's valued in the quality of service issue. What did they do when they left? What happened to the appreciation? This has already happened in 2016 with the departure of the clauses to award to this company five residences. Constellera Bassa publicly acknowledged that there had been a mistake in leaving the clousules in 2016. He acknowledged that there was a political consequence and that it was to be brave and to take the management, to this company, of these five residences. Are they going back to giving this same company the management of one of these residences? Counselor, it is a company that violates the rights and dignity of workers and affected people. Don't tell me it's a technical issue. The consequences of a theme of this type are political. They were held in the last legislature...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.15.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.16.0	...and maybe someone's making the bed for him and he'll have them back in this legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The answer is the counselor's turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.18.0	Miri, it's been good for me to bring up the subject of fets. Why is this the ability of the government that you support in your proposal of assumptions; a proposal of assumptions that does not take into account the consequences of decisions you make as a government? ( Marta Ribas Frías says: « Bones decisions. ) Already, however, good decisions, which do not comply with the European Social Charter..., when taking decisions in a government must take account of all the derivatives. (Founding voice) Don't you? Ah, you justify it to me, that the Government of the State does not take into account the derivatives around its competitions, both normative as well as... (fons voices) – please leave me? I don't want to have a conversation – do I understand its consequences and its skills in regulatory and economic matters? Do you think that's normal? Oh, no, no! It's that I see them, then, when there start to be problems, that there are already, in the special work centres, they won't say... Ah, they won't recognize that the only one who has acted with minimal responsibility around the special work centres, and it's not my concern, and I say it here: my concern is the vulnerable people, the people with disabilities who work in these special centres. The only ones who have acted have followed us. The only ones we've done the exercise of pushing the one that represents the 22_percent of the minimum wage we've followed, around an element that's not our competence. It's what I tell them: their list is different, they don't treat us all the same. And I think this has to be looked at, and I say it with a lot of honesty: I think this has to be looked at. Because now I'm going to come back to 2012, which is what happened around dependence, in 2012 numbers when there was already a systemic failure of the Dependency Law, it's the world's best news. To skip what's right subject is the best news in the world. I told you, we'll complete the subject right, and completing the subject right is completing the person's right. And you don't cheat on me, because the change in the progressivity of the entries also means a variation of the universe. And that's what we're gonna do, and I have absolute confidence in all the public workers who do the valuation exercise of the guaranteed income shippers. Just as we have made a bet in the regulation and..., a bet we have awarded with professional colleges, with the Third Sector Table, with municipal associations, which we have awarded with the unions, with employers, around the regulation. Because you, who were also a congresswoman and putting the law, know perfectly well that we drew a law, all of you, which is thought because it is not a shirt of eleven men. It's thought because you have the rules, and because of the rules we can adapt it to the various realities that we will focus on. And they don't cheat on me, because one of the political agreements they made is that there's one aspect that we need to assess everyone. And that's why he creates the governing council, which is what he has to do with the field of work. Because if you've already incorporated me into the universe the realm of work, that we all agreed we'd have a board of governments to analyze it, it's cheating on me with numbers, and that's what I'm saying. And we have increases in dependency, home care, SAD, and we have this bet, and we've grown economically. And we are aware that we have reptes, and we are aware that, if we count the five thousand people who were offered pleasure and who did not want it at that time, because the waiting list..., I place it: 17,800, but I explain it: to more than five thousand people it offered pleasure and at that time they rejected it, because there are people who point to the waiting list but that maybe at that time it is in good condition to be at home. And I don't want to end up without talking about Barcelona's residences, because I think that other administrations have also suffered what it is that in the area of public concessions, politically, you don't have to go in there, it's a theme of design. But I said it yesterday and I'm going back to say it today: please, don't send any wrong messages. Because I've said this about this Faristol: there's no concession. Before we get home, wait till you see how it ends. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on legal safeguards in judicial proceedings]] [[300-00080/12]] We continue with the following question, corresponding to the three points on the agenda, which is the question on the legal guarantees of judicial proceedings, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Question is made by Mr Jordi Orobig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.20.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselors, counselor, deputies, deputies, this deputy believes in the principle of separation of powers; the Republican Group believes, and wants to believe, in the principle of separation of powers. This Member, and the Republican Group, we believe that in a healthy democracy politics should not be judicialized or justice politicized. You see our democratic tradition; you see our thinking, together with principles such as effort, solidarity, plurality and esteem for others. Montesquieu, Locke, and before many other thinkers became aware of the need to arbitrate a system that allows you to guarantee the rights of citizens and limit the exercise of power, eliminating its abuses. Some say separation of powers and others say division of powers. This legislative chamber represents one, of the powers, in this case the legislature, and in the current legislative framework in which we move..., we do not move in a hierarchical framework but in competition, and, therefore, we are on equal terms with other legislative chambers of this State. As a member of this chamber, I cannot fail to show, a priori, maximum respect for the rest of the powers. This respect, however, does not have to prevent the complaint that there are situations that violate the proper exercise of power; respect cannot involve either indifference or complicit silence or subtly. In fact, this control of powers is done by each Ple in this chamber: we have a control session of the Government, and therefore, we exercise a control activity of the Government's activity. The judiciary, too, when it is appropriate, has drawn up the plan as soon as it comes to law enforcement, when it understands that in the exercise of our functions we are far from what is due to the right-wing jurisdictional framework. Aware of the need for this balance, this Parliament and if more than this Member cannot be left with arms folded when this basic principle of democracy is perverted and, apparently functioning normally, is in fact covering the fact that the different powers of the State work together in an objective of destroying the ideological difference, today called independence. He said to his day Plato: "The pitjor injustice is the simulated justice. This Parliament has the right, when it does not have the obligation, to raise the voice and make public the complaint of the situation of repression and restriction, when not of annulment, of rights, of what is the generality of the people of Catalonia as a collection, whether or not you are independent. And in this sense, we are questioning the rest of the Democrats in this chamber, who cannot remain impassable before the destruction of the basic principles of the right state. Or maybe we'll have to remember Martin Niemöller's words again? At a certain point in the past legislature, the main argument against the independence movement was the supposed legal insecurity that its action entailed and the effects on Catalans in personal and economic terms. There were many lies and exaggerations, Plere Plere, in the mouth of the representatives of the most reactionary right of Europe. Even today – yesterday, in this plenary – we listen to fabulations, when you do not lie flagrantly, about what the Law of Legal Transition had in place to, in this exercise of hyperbolic defamation, make the distortion maneuvers of democracy seem to be minor issues, requiring and defaming people, bodies and institutions with a level conducive to a program of high consumption of telescombraries. Paradoxically, since September 2017 those who branded the flag of stability and legal certainty, those who abhorred the Law of Legal Transition and called it a totalitarian war, have caused us to be living, in a dramatic way, a situation of flagrant legal insecurity, of which we have not heard from the worst times of Francoism and the public courts. It is clear that our democratic and peaceful movement, which has emerged from society, has dropped the jaw imposed on the face of absolutism, intransigence and fascism, and has shown us how cruel, ruthless, and despotic the system can be to defend their prebences. It is that they do not want to lose, their pre-blessings, built on the effort and patience of the less favoured classes not only of Catalonia, but of the whole Spanish State. Independence, therefore, has put its system and, with it, its status in crisis. There seems to have been an eternity, but it has not been a year and four months since the beginning of this deep democratic decapitalisation exercise in the field of phonental rights, the ultimate objective of which is the annihilation of any kind of national, cultural and linguistic dissent. This path, very obvious since September 20, 2017, does not, however, cease to be a continuity in the time of something that has already begun much more there, with the time to right collectius as was the LOAPA – the Organic Law of Harmonization of the Autonomic Process –, the first recentizing movement of the State, and in this case at the hands of Felipe González and Alfonso Guerra – must already have listened to his statements respect the rapporteur in the troubadours of dialogue between governments. More recently, in 2010, with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, it deverted a much-lost State, and imposed the criteria of chosen magistrates to say for the majority parties of the Spanish State, on the rights of Catalan citizens. Some have named this question as the breakup of the constitutional pact; in any case the consequence is that our Statute is the only constitutional rule – as an organic law – of the democratic Europe that has not been sanctioned by citizens in reference, but that they have been drawn up by the Constitutional Court. This first attack on Catalans' rights has continued in the sphere of individual rights; it does not need to be remembered that they have violated all kinds of fundamental rights, both civil and political, such as the right to freedom of information, mediating the closure of websites and the imposition of censorship on media for their intellectual expressions; the right to demonstrate, criminalizing protest demonstrations on the part of the population, holding them free of speech, mediating the condemnation of music and artists for their intellectual expressions; the right to protest on the part of the population, holding them free of charge, supporting the parliamentary or directly elected functions of the political party; But if in any way it is to be especially curated in the protection of rights it is in the sphere of criminal jurisdiction, for the affectation of a right as important as that of freedom. Principles such as the presumption of innocence, the principle of legality in the performance of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, is to say, to accuse exclusively when a crime has occurred; the principle of typicity, which requires the most strict adequacy between the imputed parties and the criminal type; the right to the pre-determined court judgement for the law, violated by the designation of instructors, violating rules for the allocation of charges between judicial bodies; the principles of proportionality and minimum intervention; the principle of prudence in the imposition of precautionary measures; and the universally recognized principle that the deprivation of liberty cannot be understood, in this case, as an advance of the sentence. We find, all these principles, deeply questioned at this time, and neither this Parliament nor the Government of Catalonia, we understand, can indifferent Romans before this flagrant attack on the rights of the citizens of our country, which are also seen in this painful situation, already for the exercise of their civil rights, already for the public exercise of their charge and their willingness to fulfill with a mandate resulting from free elections. We find ourselves at the gates of a judgment, the judgment of shame, in which there are unfounded accusations of rebellion, sedition, malfeasance, disobedience, and others who, in the end, claim to penalize what is not a crime, stop from their decriminalization, which is the summoning of a referendum. Unheard of, he has been summoned to court in an expedited manner, without respecting the right of the defences to properly instruct themselves or to the value of the required proof, allow participation as a charge of a political formation of extreme right, because you make electoral campaign in front of the own comedians of May 26th. In this context, in the eyes of this Member and the Republican Parliamentary Group, there is neither for the Catalan political prisoners nor for the rest of the proceedings– Carme Forcadell, Dolors Bassa, Oriol Junqueras, Jordi Turull, Josep Rull, Raül Romeva, Joaquim Forn, Jordi Sànchez, Jordi Cuixart, Carles Mundó and Meritxell Borràs – a procedural guarantee, as it is unfairly processed, and even more unjustifiably kept itself in a situation of deprivation of liberty and suffering a painful and torture situation for the regime of internment and transfer during trial. Was it so difficult to keep them in an area close to the Supreme Court and indecently located and guarded, that it is possible to address each day to the court? No, they're supposed to do some painful traslats every day for any person. European justice will not repair the evil caused, but we are convinced that it will make the stigma of partiality and the conscious and deliberate violation of fundamental rights more and more fall on Spanish justice. For all these circumstances, we intend to call upon the Government to make known its understanding of the lack of legal guarantees of judicial proceedings, in particular the one which is very much to be celebrated against Catalan political prisoners. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word has the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.22.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, MPs Orobtig, I completely reject the assumption by judges and courts of a role that does not correspond to them in a democratic and right-wing state. The permanent intrusion of the judiciary into legislative and executive power is obviously to be... and it must not, in any case, be tolerated, and it is intolerable. We cannot and cannot admit that the criminal right is used to fight ideological and political opponents positions. Political conflicts cannot be resolved judicially, they must be resolved politically, therefore, politically. More politics and less penal code. In these moments independence is being pursued, a democratic, legitimate and peaceful movement is being pursued. Political prisoners and prisoners are accused of crimes of rebellion and sedition against those principles that until now were principles that inspired the criminal law, the criminal law of the Spanish State. Not only from the Spanish State: we have also seen how in our European environment, also these principles until now – and they have defended them – existed. The principle of legality is not being respected. It is hardly wrong to consider acts as constituting a crime of rebellion under Article 474 of the Criminal Code, because there is no structural element of this criminal offence: rape. The only violation that Catalonia has suffered is that, in this case, we saw the 1st of October and the one that the State's security forces and bodies committed against the citizenry that it freely wanted to express and exercise its legitimate right to vote. The request for violent acts incorporated into the Criminal Code just to build its application, to limit its application and to limit it and apply it exclusively to those subjects of the highest severity that are not given, as we all know and see, in this case. Only when the principle of criminal legality is severely violated can it be said that persons who are now subject to judicial proceedings, in the light of the facts attributed to them, were able to carry out this crime or some other imperfect form of commission of this crime. Nor does it compete with the offence of sedition of Article 544 of the Criminal Code, since at the moment there is no indication that the persons who are objected to this accusation have introduced, provoked or protagonistized any tumultuous rise, as also required by the Criminal Code and criminal doctrine. And, as it cannot be otherwise, it cannot be attributed to the successes that have taken place previously or that have been achieved by other people, because in criminal law it governs the principle of personal responsibility and can only be judged by the fact that you are the author, in one of the ways in which you are allowed to be the author, by your own facts. And that's not what I'm saying: it's more than a hundred and fifty criminal law professors from the Spanish state. The principle of legality has been violated. The crime of illegal summoning of reference does not exist in the Criminal Code, it has been decrypted. Criminal law is governed by the principles of minimum and proportional intervention. There are other forms of control of legality different from the criminal way, different from the Criminal Code. That's why it decriminalized the exercise of the power to call or promote consultations for those who do not have the legally attributed skills, a behavior that is perfectly controllable for lives different from the criminal way. As Jacobo Dopico says, a professor of criminal law at the University of Carlos III, Madrid, "the words of the law must mean something; if the words no longer mean anything or come to mean one thing at a time – and I add: a different thing –, "we should see in this an alarming symptom of the disarticulation of public reason. The right of defence has been violated, the right of defence has been violated. The press and political prisoners should be free, which is the only way to deal fully and fully with the full exercise of the right of defence, which is the only way of being able to go through a judicial process, to more than one judicial process as they and they have to face. This is also said by the Constitutional Court with repeated sentences: "The only way to guarantee the right of defence is for persons who are subject to criminal proceedings to go freely. And Article 10.2 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, signed for the Spanish State, says: "The defendants must be separated from the convicts, carried by exceptional circumstances, and must be subjected to a different treatment, appropriate to the condition of an unconvicted person. The precautionary measures – the Constitutional Court also said – have the function of ensuring the proper development of the judicial process and that the accused person who is a Romanesque at the disposal of the court. They can only be adopted if there is any risk or circumstance that might endanger the development of the criminal procedure. In this sense, the temporary prison adopted has assumed and presupposed an advance of the sentence – therefore, of the sentence – in persons who are still innocent and are trapped under the principle of presumption of innocence. They are deprived of liberty, when they should be free. She seems to be lying that no one is holding onto this question. Ask him about political parties that look at what is happening in countries or other countries with advanced democracies, that look at how they are respectful of the fundamental rights, that is always talking about the dignity of the person and the preventive prison, that in Spain continues to feel an anticipation of the sentence. And yes, deputies, yes, deputy Orobtig, I also grow in the separation of powers, not the confusion of powers, which is a mass woman often to the Spanish State. What happens is that when a prosecutor says what he says, when he questions the impartiality of the Catalan courts for the same prosecution, he doesn't need to move the plan to the prosecutor; he said it because he believes it. When justice is politicized..., and we have seen it in the High Court's back yard with regard to the imposition of capital transfers and documented legal acts, on mortgages, a ruling already issued is modified and referred to the plenary, when it had been made before and the content of a court ruling changed. We have also seen with the spectacle in the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, that a person who is neither a candidate for vowel renounces to be vocal and renounces the presidency of the same General Council of the Judiciary. When various prestigious international ranks question judicial independence in Spain..., the World Economic Forum places Spain at number 58 – certainly, under the levels of Kenya, China or Saudi Arabia –, and also, according to data of the same European Commission, of the twenty-eighth countries of the European Union, only Bulgaria, Croatia and Slovakia are worse in perception of judicial independence. When all this happens, it's very hard to believe in the separation of powers. Even so, despite all that I am saying, from a legal point of view, I can't hear another feeling that doesn't respect the fundamental principles that must inspire the criminal procedure and, therefore, I can't hear another feeling that doesn't lead to an absolute feeling. And I finish, Mr. Congressman, I finish with a bet for the dialect, because the Spanish State has an obligation to look for a democratic exit to the legitimate aspirations of Catalonian citizens. We will never give up the dialogue with the State to find a solution agreed, which gives answer to the will of the majority of Catalonian citizens. We find ourselves in front of a political conflict that must find solutions in a political way. And yes – and yes – in this process, in this new process that will start against Catalonia, in this process that will start the week that you see, we will see if you win the State of Right or at the end you win the raison d'Etat. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about youth policies]] [[300-00081/12]] The next question is about youth policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The questioner David Mejía asked.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.24.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, if we make a ten years challenge of the situation of young people in Catalonia, the panorama that we find ourselves really desolating: there is more to it, less wages, less economic independence. The young people's lack of opportunity is a reality, and we see how the governments we have, in account of being part of the solution, so what they do is to put even more hands on the wheels to this situation. And I'll try to give them a report of some of the difficulties young people find at their different stages, and, more importantly, I'll tell them why you, like the government, are responsible for these shortcomings and for this lack of opportunity. First of all, at the level of education: we see how the economic inequalities that exist among the Catalan families influence more than in other places in Spain in the academic results of their children. The level of income of the parents determines Catalonia, more than any other autonomous community, the possibility of success of Catalan students. And that, Counselor, is a bad symptom for a society that aspires to equal opportunities. Therefore, this equal opportunity for the government to fill its mouth began to disappear from the early stages of youth. And, if that's what your government's cough is about not putting a trilingual model in Catalan, in English and in English as a vehicle language and allowing us to compete in a world that is once more globalized, then we still add more space to this inequality that may exist in the future. His nationalist obsession with perpetuating a monolingual model that diminishes the import of English and also diminishes the language of most Catalans is a last resort for our children. Moreover, the lack of professional orientation that should be given to our young people, together with the lack of updating of professional training, makes us have a clockwork bomb. I ask you, counselor: what vocational guidance plan have you achieved in our education system? Do you know that the lack of orientation of our young people is manifest in the high school and professional fracs, which up to 18_per_cent, in the case of the school fracs, and which is supposed to double the European media? What effective policy have you made to bet on vocational training, when we know that in a few years 65 per cent of the jobs offered will be through vocational training? In 2016-2017 there was a lack of more than 3,500 places of professional training in public centers. What did the government do in this sense? What are they doing to adapt vocational training to the needs of the labour market? What are you doing, too, with dual professional training? Also at the educational stage, different solutions have to be put in place that I think are immediate... and that are a shacra, such as the increase in gender-based violence. Last week, and this week too, we could see different news, and we also saw one concrete one that said that male attacks by minors have increased by 45_per_cent in the last two years– by 45_per_cent in the last two years. We have a hard problem with this situation. Secondly, when young people want to enter the world of work, we find ourselves in a difficult situation. From the labour market, we see the precariousness of their work is excessive, inadmissible and incomprehensible. And from this precariousness, we also find ourselves with the inequality that exists between our young people in our own territories. And out of this market we see also an indecent tax of tween. To the last data we have been able to obtain, as a general rule, the only group of the act that has increased compared to 2018 is the collection of young people of twenty-five years of age, and that's what we've come from a lot of very bad data. And this, counselor, knows perfectly well that it generates great frustration among our young people, especially for the effort they have made and feel one of the most well-prepared generations. Do you believe that the SOC, the Occupational Service of Catalonia, is complete with its objectives? Do you think that the more €355 million you bring to the SOC are effective? We don't think so. We don't understand how there may be private plataforms that have a much larger occupancy index than the SOC. What are you doing, counselor, at Baix Penedès, at Montsià, at Maresme, at the Ribera d'Ebre, to adapt the training to the needs and the realities that exist in your own territory? What are they doing to solve the young depopulation that has occurred in the different rural areas of Catalonia? At the entrepreneurial level, the government is very little effective and leaves much to be desired with its proposals. In fact, in the last parliamentary term, we were already going to present a concrete inquiry into young enterprise. In this chamber he was given a democratic mandate, that yes, a legal mandate, a statutory mandate, a constitutional mandate – because he works in generational replenishment programs, and today we still have no news of that, because you are very determined when you try to violate the law and when you try to take down the rights and freedoms of Catalans, and, in turn, don't do anything when you do have the skills to do it. And, in the third place, we have to face the difficulties of our young people to emancipate. Every time, as a result of this lack of opportunity that I am talking about throughout the intervention, the age of independence increases. And the lack of public housing policies on your part does not help again to give solutions to this problem. Why, counselor, can you tell me how many public promotion habitats have made, for example, the year 2017, which are the last data that we can have? Zero, I'm telling you, zero. And I honestly believe that it's already time to invest in public housing policy, why do you consider it a priority to invest in public housing for eligible housing? It's a priority for us. Therefore, what we are asking you to do is to stop making politics fiction, to land on the reality of our young people and to start making effective policies to ensure this equal opportunity, I insist on another time, equal opportunity, because this is the key to achieving success in youth policies and must be the main objective of any government and any society that is fair, democratic and sustainable. And finally there are other problems on the table that young people suffer, with patent, unfortunately with patent, because I honestly believe that I would need a monogram ple. At the level of health, we find ourselves with emerging problems to which rapid solutions must be provided, and it is more likely that we need broad consensus between the different political formations: the increase in sexually transmitted diseases, which, according to ICS, has increased 56_per_cent in the last two years; online addictions; cyberbullying; juvenile suicide. Yes, juvenile suicide, the first cause of death of young Catalans. Every five days, there's a Catalan girl or girl who's a suicide. We do not want to create social alarms, but I do think that we need to address these issues, that we need to put them on the table and that we need to put the maximum interest in solving this issue, which is very and very difficult. And to finish, we don't want to forget the most vulnerable collection you've given the skeleton to for too long. The young wards who live in overcrowded centers and the young extolls who leave the protection system and who are left with one hand in the front and one at the back living on the street. We have also been able to see news about this issue in the last few weeks. We could see how young people grow up without getting a 10_per_cent in two years until they reach 17_per_cent. And you still feel another part of the problem and not part of the solution. Therefore, Counselor, what we are asking from our parliamentary group is that they begin to govern for the people, which prioritize their government action. In its parallel reality only the process exists, but to earthly life the problems exist, remain unanswered and our young people need them and need them already. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.25.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, the Lord El Homrani. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.26.0	Thank you, President. Member, look, I will start with a virtue of his inquiry, because he has a virtue; I think he has clearly visualized that when we talk about youth policies we are talking about absolutely cross-cutting policies, that touch all spheres, that touch the educational environment, that touch the work environment, that touch the field of salvation, that touch the field of justice, that touch all, all areas. And I'll start with that virtue that you've had your inquiry. From here on out, I want to get into a subject that you've set up and that I'm also taking advantage of, because I think it's a shared concern of everyone: the news we've had in these last few weeks is about male violence and sexual assaults that have been donated. And I think that here we all have to conjure, we have to condemn... we also have to condemn insensitivity in many areas of the judiciary. And I think the clearest example was the feeling that was made public yesterday about the sexual assault that suffered a woman with an intellectual disability in Lleida, and the shame, and so I say, of the feeling to the aggressor, that it is a shame. And I think he's close to all of us doing a lot of work on prevention and doing a lot of work on conviction, and on conviction, and being aware that also in the judicial sphere – and that sometimes you worry about a little bit – they have to assume that it also has to be critical, it would just be missing. And we have a very clear example with a sentence yesterday for a violation of a woman with an intellectual disability of more than 60_per_cent and the reasons for which the sentence is so light. From here on out, they're still... the whole thing's different, huh? I'll thank you all and we've known each other for a while, it's all different, but it's always over – and I've already told you a few times, huh? – With this exercise I think they have a lot planned, I think they have a lot planned, I think they have a lot thought, I think they have a book of reference that they have a lot read, that it's not thinking about an elephant, don't think about an elephant, of the Lakoff, and they all end up placing it in the same mark. And when we talk about young people's policies, they end up another time than if the trial, than if the hámster. And you are the same people who are unable to make an inquiry about a question without entering it. He has placed the issue of education, the struggle against segregation, which I believe Councillor Bargalló has placed in a very clear way. I, by training, sociolegic society; I fully understand what social reproduction of inequalities means and that educational systems in societies end up generating social reproduction of inequalities. But then I go with the language model and talk to me about nationalist obsession – when they talk about nationalist obsession to me because it's because I'm not directly a nationalist, and it's because of that – around the language model of the school, a language model that I've had the chance to enjoy and that, if it wasn't for this language model, surely, if we had patterns of linguistic segregation according to mother tongues, it wouldn't be speaking to the fluidity that I speak to Catalan, and the castle I speak perfectly, and even I have the chance to have the border word, which is the dialect of Arabic for my origins. I mean, I think you have an obsession with the language model that we don't share. And, in the end, it's his model of society; but let's also say: I don't link it to other themes; it's that they defend a model, and a model in which rich linguistics doesn't take into account. And I think it has to be settled. And that's it. And you can laugh... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Take care of 'n' – take care of 'n' – but that's it. From here, school segregation, avoiding these situations, and vocational training. For us, it's a clear, clear priority, and we'll work on it, and we'll work on it, and we'll work on it, around various aspects: the adequacy of the offer around the demands of the fabric product. And that's what we'll do on both sides, because you have a problem: that you end up talking only about a field of vocational training, regulated vocational training. And in the end, vocational training has two systems. And one of the tasks we're doing is integrating the programming of the two systems: regulated vocational training and occupational training for employment. And I think we need to position it... not just place it in the regulated area. We are working together with the Department of Education in integration and in which training programming is joint. I think they know that the governance system of the Catalan agency of vocational training has already developed. I think they know that this system of governance takes into account the sectoral councils, which is the mechanism on which we want to work this adaptation to the needs of the product fabric; sectoral councils where the economic sectors are present, each economic sector, and we can have a visualisation. And even all we're working on is that this also has a territorial logic, not only sectoral. It is also in line with one of the projects we have from the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, within the framework of the SOC, which is clearer for this 2019, that it is the deployment of territorial strategies, which is what will allow us to do a double exercise: on the one hand, an agreement around the diagnoses to each territory according to its reality, an agreement on the strategies and an agreement of which are the measures to achieve the objectives. And we'll work on that. And you said to me: "The SOC does not serve. I could give you a lot of examples that the SOC serves. I also say that we are working around a flexibility of SOC policies, and we are very clear. But I can still say that in youth there are examples of very concrete successes. The Youth Guarantee has been recognised as a success case by the European Union, for its innovation, efficiency and efficiency, and this by the General Directorate for Programming and Evaluation of the European Social Funds. The Assembly of Regions of Europe in 2017 held the most friendly guardian of European region with young people in Catalonia, for the implementation of the Noves Oportunitas program and the Singulars program. The Youth Guarantee is an example of the type of flexible policy that gives response and which is even recognised, and is recognised at European level. It's not here where we want to go, I'm aware that we have a lot of challenges to address. Because you said, "There have been no changes in the two years. It is that in these two years there has been a very strong economic crisis and there has been a regulation..., and here another time we have political differences, there has been a deregulation in the field of work that has been particularly harmful to young people. And you don't plant the solution that we plant. And you're planting even more deregulation. And you're planting a system that's still more precarious. And I know for a fact... because I've been worried about reading your work program. And then we start with different visions. And, based on different visions, we have to position it. I can explain the programme of the seven regions, which is to the seven regions where there is more need; and I can also say that our visit takes into account both the territorial specificity that, for example, in Upper Ribagorça, there is no need to talk about the tourist tax, there is a need to talk about the activity rate; they are different dimensions. From here I don't want to leave it..., because I've had a lot of fears, and I think that in the reply I can finish discussing it, but I know very hard a certain exercise that they do – and I don't tell you, but as a group the fan – around guardianships and extolls to the General Directorate of Childcare, and especially adolescents and young people migrated without adult references. Because he's very curious – he's very curious: where they've had responsibilities, they haven't made any changes. Do you know that Catalonia and the Basque Country are the only territories in the Spanish State where you have helped post-custodial students? Do you know that? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, so what? So what? No, no, so what? You, when you have responsibilities, you may worry that when you have divided years, out. No, it's that it's part of a reality of a model that's absolutely unfair. They're not finished... they haven't had any willingness to face it at the moment. And end up with a force like Vox. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, that's the way it is. Yeah, yeah. They may or may not bother them, but it's Vox and I that deal. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] a speech...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.27.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.28.0	...and they make me the speech that they make respect for this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.29.0	...ma'am Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.30.0	And I think we'll always have to remember that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.31.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.32.0	...because it's very worrying...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.33.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.34.0	... because it's very and very worrying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.35.0	Mrs. Sierra, you don't have the word right now. Mr. Mejía, when you're ready.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.36.0	Thank you, President. Well, counselor, your reply really doesn't surprise me; you do as you always do, you pull pilots out, you talk about the sex of angels, but you don't answer any of the questions I've asked, and you look like I've asked you. Because I asked him about all the areas that affect young people. And, as you said, it's a cross-cutting situation that affects a lot of departments. And that's why young people's policies are so important. But you don't prioritize it, you prioritize other things. It's not that we're always talking about the same thing, it's that you don't stop talking about the same thing and you're just a bunch of political processists and in search of this supposed independence. Certainly, an independence that would assume that Catalonia is leaving the European Union and that, therefore, we no longer have many of the privileges that we have, that we no longer have Erasmus and that even more so they lose opportunities. Because, yes, it's true... [[Greetings.]] Yes, it is true; we are betting on a trilingual model, in Catalan, in castle and in English. Your bets are for a monolingual model, for a 20th century model. We look to the future, you look to the past. By the way... [[Greetings.]] Certainly, I think you, when you went to school, education still fell within the ministry and did not apply immersion at that time. Just a given to add. But, in any case, as I said, youth policies are cross-cutting policies, necessary policies, and, more importantly, it is a collection that suffers more than anyone else's crisis situation. And I have given him many examples of the different stages in this youthful period. You haven't told me anything about housing. Can you answer the questions I asked you? For you are a priority, public housing policies, affordable logger? Because, as I said, and I remember it another time: in 2017 you did zero – zero. Therefore, I would ask you whether you are also replying to questions about housing. We also asked him about social issues. I also want to remind you that our parliamentary group is the group that has put forward the most proposals to its department; of all the hemicle, of all the parliamentary groups, Ciutadans is the party that has put forward the most social proposals. So don't tell us we're always talking about the same thing, because maybe who's always talking about the same thing is you. [[Greetings.]] You also told me that there are two vocational training systems, because there are different models... Maybe you didn't listen to me in my interview, but I've already talked about these two systems. Because you, look, make a lot of plans, make a lot of strategies, but the reality and the data are what they are and don't give them the reason. Therefore, what we ask is efficiency; in any case, what we ask is efficiency. Because, listen to me, we're tired of listening to plans, we're tired of listening to strategies that ultimately don't take us away. Look, we're always making plans, but the reality is that our young people suffer more than anyone. And we want solutions now. And if they're incapable of giving solutions, so don't let us make sure we already have them. That said, I think the important thing is that young people's policies are a priority. And this government isn't doing it. As I said, you have other priorities, you have other thoughts, you're up and down all day thinking about a single issue, but our young people have more trouble, our young people have more difficulty, they have more social problems. And you're doing absolutely nothing. You're talking to me about young extolls and young wards... but what are you doing, if the situation we have is very difficult and really you're not giving a solution to this? We're intruding, every day we're carrying with us nine news stories about this issue. Therefore, I stopped talking about the sex of angels, I stopped throwing pilots out, I took on responsibilities, that you are the counselor, I took on responsibilities, that you are the government, start ruling and, if you don't know, so don't let go, because Ciutadans is willing to do it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.37.0	For the reply, the counselor has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.38.0	Yes, speaking of education... thank you, President. Speaking of education, how they always have this way of talking about the schematic, when he came over here, he listened: « Vox, Vox, Vox, Vox, Vox... Yes, I will remember them there– I will remember them there– [[remorse of the voice]] And, if it bothers them, I'm sorry, taking the consequences of their decisions. And what's more worrying...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.39.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.40.0	...assuming that they're normalizing the pheasism. [[Greetings.]] And that's what you're doing: normalizing fascism, normalizing a force with a program that we're already discussing – that we're already discussing. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.41.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.42.0	And it may or may not bother them, but it's reality. And we'll explain it. And so many times as you need it – and so many times as you need it. And if we don't, we'll see this Saturday or Sunday in Madrid with another joint event, we'll see. From here– from here–, the situation. He asked me for concrete questions. He told me about the SOC, I told him about the Youth Guarantee, I told him that it's recognized how it worked, I told him that it's a program with more than a hundred and a thousand people that are working, that we're going to continue to develop, now with the subject of the occupation referents. He spoke to me about vocational training; I explained to him joint programming, I explained to him how we are working around this joint programming to work with sectoral councils, with product texture, as we want to place him in the territorial area, is to say... Another question is whether he is interested or not. I'm not getting into this anymore. I think I explained a little bit to him; I also wanted to frame it. Because in the end you can present many social proposals but in the places where you have taken responsibility and where you have given support to the government of social betters you have not seen one – head or one –; in Andalusia in these years or in Madrid, to give two different examples, you have been giving support to a government from outside. You haven't seen anything better in your senses. And that also needs to be done. I was wondering about housing. We are working together with the Catalan Housing Agency, I mean, in youth, around two projects that we are developing, which is one of urban masoveria, the other of cessation cooperatives, because one of the problems we have encountered with the housing model and housing policies that have taken place in this country is that what we have failed to achieve is that the social habitats that are produced are always social. And here the great example is that we have made a lot of social housing that has then gone to the private sector. And there are two ways: the logger and the cessation of use, the cessation co-operatives, which is a model that breaks the binomial buy and logger on an absolutely speculative market. That, of course, we could discuss whether or not they have been willing, in the area in which they are competent, because, of course, we cannot go into other areas, to modify the Law of Urban Rentals and to facilitate access to the loguer by young people is not a speculative element. And I don't think you've helped people at the Madrid Congress. And it's got to be settled, too. Because, look, if you want to rule, no problem, but, in the end, in a democracy that rules, it is that you have the majority in Parliament and that you have the majority in Parliament, it is that you have the majority of the total votes of the citizens, and we will continue to do so. He has also put me in other ways, such as that of salvation. In health and in prevention of sexual attachment we are..., I have already explained it in the monogram of childhood, and for us it is a key project – it is a key project – the pilot that we will make around the model Barnahus, Nordic, around the attention to infants and young people who have suffered sexual attachment. For us this has to be the cornerstone of model change. He also told me about the protections and I remember them, and I remind him of one reality: we are the only territory, with the Basque Country, where we exercise responsibility, and we are not very proud, that it is to give support to the Extute. I think if this is done throughout the State, it would help, because I think that, as they follow the press, I look at the stories and read the stories that explain the guys and the girls, and then surely someone will worry, because it will see how it has been generating a situation of absolute defencelessness in many territories in the Spanish State before arriving in Catalonia. And we're aware that it's a very complicated challenge. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] We are aware that it is a reptile that sees all the territories...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.43.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.44.0	... – yes; now I'm finished, President – all the territories of the State and who lives all of Europe. But we're working...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.45.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.46.0	...and we've been able to generate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.47.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.48.0	...many more right than you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.49.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the hidden negotiations between the President of the Generality and the President of the Government of Spain]] [[300-00082/12]] The next question, on the occult negotiations between the President of the Generality and the President of the Government of Spain, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The honourable Member, Ms Lorena Roldán, explained the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.50.0	Yes; thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillors. Well, Mr. Aragonès, I'm asking you, I don't know if you're interested in what I have to say to you, Mr. Aragonès. [[Pause.]] Thank you. Well, we already have it here, here is the document of shame, that document that you have had hidden in a drawer for weeks and that confirms and raises the suspicions that we had many Catalans about it. No wonder you had this hidden, no wonder you didn't want us to see it, because this is a real shame, this is a shame from the beginning to the end. It's just that you don't even save the title. He said: « Proposal from the Government of Catalonia at the summit with the Government of Spain. So now, the meetings that Sánchez begs you, now it turns out to be summits. Those meetings that you do at the secret door the closest thing you have to a summit is how far away you are from the reality of the Catalans. So get off the top and step a little bit more on the floor, because it's cloth. And he follows the title and says: « A state pact to solve the conflict between Spain and Catalonia. No, look, Mr Aragonès, here there is no conflict between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, here there is a conflict with those who struck democracy, with those who do not respect the law and with those who trample and violate the rights of all Catalans day and day as well. I remember perfectly well the days of September 6th and 7th, that I was sitting there in those seats, when you decided to load it absolutely everything. And they're still in the same. And on top of that they allow the luxury to go with demands to the government. I mean, you're very lucky that I'm the president of the Pedro Sánchez government, which is that he has no decency, he doesn't know her, because this is an insult, this is an insult to all Spaniards and to millions of Catalans who are not independenceists. Do you know what this document is all about? Well, the interests you have here are very clear, aren't they? Sánchez puts them on a tray asking for whatever they want, whatever it is, kneels and gives them carte blanche, and you ask absolutely nothing that is good for the Catalans as a whole. Nothing. It's just that there's not a single social measure here. Where are the Catalans who are not independentists left in this document? To what extent of these twenty - one here do you call for improvements to the problems of Catalans? Twenty-one points. It's just that there's not one single one who's thinking about all the Catalans. You don't talk about dependence, you don't talk about health, you don't talk about funding, you don't talk about the Mediterranean Corridor... Nothing that matters and that will benefit the Catalans as a whole. Because you're still obviating more than half of Catalonia, and Sanchez agrees. This here, this here is supposed to be what you consider indispensable in Catalonia, isn't it? This, which excludes more than half of Catalans. It's just embarrassing. It's embarrassing, really. This is all you have in your head, this document. I don't know, this seems to me that come to be like the tables of independence. Perhaps it was Mr. Torra al Pedraforca and Puigdemont, from the heights – those of Waterloo, of course, where he is escaped – as he dictated to him the twenty-one commandments of independence. Okay. I'm going to analyze a little bit, it's not going to give me all time, but yes some of them, so we can see the degree of defachability of what you ask here. Look, the first point, the first commandment: "You cannot rule against Catalonia." Come on, and those who do absolutely nothing for Catalans say so. Those who rule against the Catalans are you, degrading our institutions, taking on the prestige of the Catalan Parliament, spending the money of all Catalans on continuing to commit their illegalities, breaking the coexistence in Catalonia. In recent days they have attacked various judicial offices, they have attacked the Office of the Attorney General of Catalonia, they have attacked the headquarters of the European Commission in Barcelona, they have broken the face of a councilman of Citizens in Torroella de Montgrí, Mr Aragonès. Uh, which, by the way, we're still waiting for you to condemn. Let's see if when he gets out here he makes this condemnation of this violent action against a partner and a councilman. [[Greetings.]] It is more – it is more – the mayor of Torroella de Montgrí, who is his party partner, Mr Aragonès, the mayor of Esquerra Republicana, not only has not condemned him, but it is that he has boasted of this aggression. How about this, Mr. Aragonès? Are you going to do something with this mayor who not only does not condemn violence, but celebrates it above? Really, that's fine. It is you who rule against Catalonia. Another point of the commandments these says: "The sovereignty of the Catalan institutions must be respected, and not threatened with the implementation of 155. And that is what you ask, that you show no respect for the Catalan institutions. You who go to chiringuito a day to empty this Parliament of content, you who twist the Rules of Procedure at your will, you who close this chamber and Parliament every time it suits you. A few days ago you blocked the committees, Mr Aragonès, that you had an appearance to go and talk about the cod that you did with ATLL and it wasn't, and it left us hanging there, because you have no respect for this Parliament, you have no respect for the Members who are not of your parties. And, therefore, they have no respect for Catalans, because we are here representing more than 1_million Catalans. So the biggest threat of 155 is you. If you would stop passing the laws through the lining and be trampling and obviating the rights of most Catalans, no one here would be talking about 155. Another point, another point in this shame of a document, says: "The judicial process has to stay behind. Ah, friend, of course, what they've always wanted: impunity. They skip the law and call for impunity. They embezzle the money of Catalans and demand impunity, privileges. That is what you want, because you believe that because you are political, you have here a number of privileges that the rest of the citizens do not have. But wake up now, which is that we are in the 21st century, that we are all equal before the law, which is already good, is already good! Another point. This is very funny, point 7, says: "A commitment to political ethics must be promoted. Man, here very fine very fine have not been you, eh? They caught Mr Calvo with the ice cream cart, that Mr de Esquerra Republicana who used his post at DGAIA to enrich himself personally. Come on, that's from a political ethic that goes back, huh? Mr. Aragonès. And if we speak of his colleagues, of those of the PDECAT, of political ethics, then, here we are given the grapes, which have even thrown them out of ALDE for corrupt. What do you come here to talk about political ethics? But what lessons are these? I... More points, I keep going, because I'm running out of time. 8th and 13th. He says: "We must ensure the separation of powers and we must guarantee judicial independence. I don't know if you have amnesia or suffer from some kind of strange syndrome. Do you remember that law that you invented, that you brought here, of legal transitoryness? For in that law you wanted to choose the judges by finger, which was not necessary nor that you were judges. No, no, if they were licensed in law and friends of theirs, that was worth it. That is, and since they did not get away with it, as they cannot control the judges, now the CDRs, those to which Mr. Torra tells them to tighten, because they are dedicated to apprehension the judges and they are dedicated to attacking the judicial headquarters. Look: "What a fucking justice, with excrement here at the judicial gates... Here is another tweet with the same, from the CoR. And this, then, are the courts of Cerdanyola, Figueres, Girona, Manresa, Mataró, Mollet, Rubí, Sabadell, Sant Feliu de Guixols, Solsona, Tarragona, Tortosa, Vic and Vilanova and the Geltrú. This is what the CDRs do. And on top of that, I ask the Justice Counselor what they plan to do to avoid this and the Justice Counselor tells me – and she stays so happy – that they watch from door to door. Well, let's call your friend Mr. Buch, the Home Secretary, and take care of it. Because the only thing Mr. Buch does is identify those who remove yellow ties, those yes. Now, to those dedicated to throwing excrement at the gates of the courts, it is seen that it does not go with you. Well, another point, point 11, says – ah, this too –: "The deterioration of the image of Spain in the world must be curbed. This one's stuck in them, hasn't it? They weren't... when they were at the meeting you weren't very attentive, because we're going, we're going to see. If you do nothing but try to denigrate the image of Spain and the image of Spanish democracy. If you are concerned that Spain is being spoken badly around the world, please remove Mr. Torra's passport. If there's nothing else he does but travel around talking bad about Spain. [[Greetings.]] Man... [[The joker laughs.]] If it's... who they're trying to cheat on, if they're not cheating on anyone. You've already fallen for it. The only one who buys his separatist theses here is Sánchez, is Sánchez, because he is very afraid of the ballot box and is willing to everything, to everything, so long as he does not put the ones, and if, for that, he has to buy his mental frameworks, because he buys them and swallows them, if he has bought them up to point 3, that of the international mediator, to facilitate an equal negotiation, the point of dishonour. That is, Sánchez is able to invent a bilateral relationship with Catalonia, which does not exist, so as to continue in La Moncloa. It's a irresponsibility. I mean, you get the document this, that this is a collection of mantras, lies and hate, and you buy it. I don't know... did the Socialist Party gentlemen, Mr. Iceta, have this document? Have you seen these twenty - one shameful points? It is regrettable how the Socialist Party is abandoning millions of Catalans, also socialist voters, as well. And I hope that Sanchez has a very clear thing, that you do not represent Catalonia, you represent separatism and the CDRs. Yes, yes, yes, they have found a line in Sanchez, Mr. Aragonès, the big prize, has touched them here. Enjoy what is left with him, because as soon as there are elections I am convinced that the Spaniards will fill the ballot boxes with illusion, but also with equality, also with union and also with freedom, and we will take Sanchez from La Moncloa to vote. And then you will lose that colloquium you have of an unscrupulous president who confuses you with Catalonia. Look, Mr. Aragonès, you're not Catalonia, we're all Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.51.0	Congresswoman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] The vice president of the government has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.52.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ouch! « Decency, « do not have shame, « defach, « shame, « pass through the lining... I had heard many questions, in this chamber, and many times the counselors said : « I thank you to you. I can't do it, because yours has been an aggress, it's been a demagogic, it's been a time with an absolute lack of responsibility with the cities that you represent. Therefore, I would ask you, apart from the play of the speech that you have all after, in this inquiry, which reproduces what you did a few days ago to the Senate, to Minister Batet, in fact, reproduces it as long as you hold the same title – do the job once and bring it to two different places, so you are away with hours of work – I would ask you for less demagogy and more responsibility, less demagogy and more responsibility. Because today you have spoken of hatred, you have spoken of tension, of fracture, but let's say that, not even for all the interventions, I think that who is carrying it in this room is you and not me. Secondly, the government condemns all the attacks, all of them and every one of them, and what you have said to this governor of Torroella de Montgrí, we condemn it, without any material, totally. And, in fact, we have made available, in case they think it is appropriate, the Civil and Political Rights Office, for which we can help. [[Congresswoman Andrea Levy Soler gave her a round of applause.]] Well, you're out of line, but we don't have a problem. When we defend the rights, we defend the rights of everyone, not just those who think like us, or just... And this may be the difference between you and us. We're always defending your right to freedom of speech, all at once. I'll work to guarantee it. You, what they want, precisely, as they speak of closing this Parliament, is the application of an indefinite 155, which is their only project for Catalonia. And they want to apply this 155 indefinite to Catalonia because you were first in the elections, but the result that the citizens of Catalonia gave did not please them, because they renewed an independent majority in this chamber. And how they didn't like the election results for that they offer an indefinite 155. Therefore, listen to me, we have no problem, on the contrary, to condemn the aggression against the governor of Torroella de Montgrí; we have at our disposal this person and the rest who may have suffered an aggression all the instruments of the Government of Catalonia to his service, obviously as it could not be otherwise. In the same way that you, if you get the communication means – that I think you read them, but often it makes you see that there are news from which you haven't heard – I would know that the Department of the Interior will strengthen constant vigilance in the courts, because the actions that they have produced, that we obviously don't share, to put women at the gates of courts, can not produce. Therefore, there will be a complementary effort of the Squad Mossos in this sense. This is public, and you're always so hung up on communication media, you know, what happens is that they're interested in saving it. Third, you did a similar interview with Minister Batet a few days ago, didn't you? And I believe that the question that you really want to ask is the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol and the Spanish Government, because this was not an inquiry that was addressed to the Government of Catalonia, but it was addressed to its Spanish electoral campaign, because you said: "Here there will be elections and we will vote for the Spaniards. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's obvious that you want to be the citizen of Catalonia; if you don't, you've talked about Catalans, right? No, no, no: "All the citizens of the Spanish State will vote and, once we are in La Moncloa, we will apply an indefinite 155. Why? Because they don't like it, the one who votes for the people of Catalonia. You say we just want to represent the independenceists, and it's fake. We want to represent all the people of Catalonia, all the citizens of Catalonia. It's our obligation, and it's nothing else. And we obviously do it with a political program. And what you can't defend is that Catalonia doesn't have two million people defending Catalonia's independence. And these 2_million people will not disappear because you intend to apply 155 indefinitely or we will not disappear with a conviction of the Supreme Court. There's a political problem and the political problems have to be solved politically, and the first thing to do is talk. Talking to people who think like you doesn't matter, talking to people who think differently. I offer them, and the government offers them, that they come to the Palau of the Generality and that we speak. Because, apart from talking..., here we always talk – here we always talk – but you know that it is enough to raise the debate not only to parliamentary institutions, but also to official, institutional meetings that there is of the Government with opposition. And that's how democracy works. And you, denying the legitimacy of the Government of Catalonia, are attacking the institutions of this country. We do not deny the representativeness of your parliamentary group. This is the difference between you and us. The doors of the Palau de la Generalitat are open for when they come to meet. Then you sometimes come to other departments and get together because there's no focus, because maybe there's no media. They come to the Palau de la Generalitat and defend their arguments! That they are legitimate arguments and that their voters have a right to defend them. They don't keep talking, talking, defending their position. I know you're interested in doing it here, doing it on TV sets. They say: "The debate is to be held here. But they're on TV sets all day. That's where you can do it. Therefore, here we debate, and we can also debate at bilateral meetings, and we can do so. And you who abhor so much of bilaterality, but who is also a great advocate of the law, should know that there is a law that is said to be the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy that enshrines a bilateral commission, recognized by the law – bilateral. And he's in the State of Catalonia. Bilaterality is therefore recognised. What bothers you is that we're talking to the state government. Look, I don't know if we're gonna agree or not. I know it's very difficult, that we're in a very complicated context. That we come from many years in which, from our point of view, the Government of the State has left an important policy behind. And so now there's an opportunity to try to find if there's room for political negotiation and dialogue, which is what the people are asking of us. Therefore, we will talk to whomever you are, to whom you are to advance the quality of life of the citizens of Catalonia, and to whom you are obviously defending our political position, our convictions and our programme, which is as legitimate as yours. And we'll do it in front of everything. I have no problem talking to Mrs. Arrimadas, talking to you, talking to Mr. Albert Rivera. And we're talking about it here. You don't signal me as if we don't talk to Parliament, if they're asking us all day, and we're delighted that they do, because it's its function as an opposition group. We're delighted, but what we're asking is that apart from that, they come to the other spaces of dialogue, to the other spaces of discussion where there are people, where there are other political forces that also come. And if we talk to the Government of the State, despite the fact that we are very far away, that there are many discrepancies, we do so because we will never – never, ever – leave any space where there is an opportunity to advance the quality of life of this country. We are for the dialect, we are trying to achieve things with politics and not by the way of taxation, which is where you are – which is where you are – when they announce their only program for Catalonia that is 155 indefinite, because they do not like the one that the people of Catalonia vote in elections. They didn't like the one who voted for the people on the 21st of December in the elections. They did not like the result; they liked theirs, but the pleasure of others, which turns out we are more, and is reflected in the composition of this chamber. And as they don't like it, 155 application indefinite. I would call them to responsibility. And obviously, when you talk about occult negotiations, I don't know what you mean. Because I think all the times we've been talking to the state government have been known, have been public. A joint note was made, a joint statement on 20 December, which I believe is an important statement, that you would do well to read, in which each of the defence governments has its position, but that there are common positions that must allow us to move forward. And, therefore, imagine 'if they are hidden that they make joint notes; imagine 'if they are hidden if every time we meet or contact or there are, therefore, we meet with video conference with the Vice President of the Government of the State, both she and we give account. Imagine if they're hidden that we're doing a bilateral state and generality commission, last August, and the Joint Commission of Economic and Fiscal Assumptions and Infrastructures with lights and tachographs. Maybe what's bothering them is this? Maybe what's bothering them is that we're trying to talk and talk, not just in this room, at all times – at all times. And I think that you, honestly, should do the same, you should take on your responsibility, stop campaigning and take on the responsibility to defend the people who voted for them and that I think you expect a little more than an aggressed speech, an angry speech and a speech that does nothing but solve the problems we have in this country. If we don't talk about truth and we don't bet truth [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And we risk those we think differently...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.53.0	Vice-President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.54.0	...we would be extending every time a political solution for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.55.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.56.0	And I think you should think about that. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.57.0	Thank you, Vice President. For the answer, it's the congresswoman's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.58.0	Yes; thank you, Mr. President. Well, you tell me, Mr Aragonese, that I therefore encourage hatred, which I come here to say I do not know what. And you tell me, you are the ideologist of « Spain steals from us. This is to encourage hatred, Mr Aragonese! [[Greetings.]] « Every second Spain steals from us. This is to encourage hatred. Man, please, it's really... lessons not one – lessons not one. You say you condemn the aggression – you say you condemn the aggression – to our colleague in Torroella de Montgrí. What are you going to do with the mayor of Torroella? Because he's from his party, he's from Republican Left. Are they going to make this Republican leftist man resign, who not only does not condemn violence, but also takes out his chest, boasts of violence? Really, man, don't give so many lessons. And on top of that, he says they're making the Civil Rights Office available to us, huh? That same office that said we were fascists. That word they love so much. Really, look, I was born in democracy and I had not heard so much about fascism, and of course the only fascist attacks I have experienced are those carried out by the radical separatists, who are dedicated to pointing out homes, who are dedicated to coercing, who are dedicated to threatening those who do not think like them and who are even dedicated to breaking the face of a fellow simply by defending his ideas. We're going to go here to the office this one, to the chiringuito, another chiringuito that you have invented! It also tells me that we want an indefinite 155 – indefinite 155. How bad is the hemerotheque, how bad! [[The speaker shows a document to the chamber.]] Mr Tardà: "Using 155 to abrogate autonomy for us would make a fool of us. But if you're delighted. But it is that, really, all they say are all their mantras, which is that they no longer hang – they no longer hang – Mr Aragonese. You will give it to Mr. Pedro Sánchez, but to us, of course, not, and to millions of Catalans neither, really. I mean, it's just... More things you've said to me... Oh yes! , that we're here all day questioning. Man, there would be more missing – there would be more missing. It is our right as Members of the opposition to question you. The thing is, you guys don't want to face it. You don't want to explain. But what transparency? You've come here saying you give explanations of everything. [[The speaker shows a document to the chamber.]] This document, we learned from the press – from the press. That this is December and we are in February, Mr Aragonés. What transparency, what transparency are you talking about? "Dialogue," he says. "What we need to talk about. But let's see, but what dialogue, Mr Aragonese? What lessons will we learn from dialogue if they do all they can to silence us? Just yesterday again, the Speaker of the Parliament, who is of his party, took the floor from the opposition leader so that he could not speak, in full control session. And it just didn't even stop the clock on top. (Whispering) It's just embarrassing that you talk here about dialogue (some applause) when you try to shut us up. Try to shut us up, Mr. Aragonese! Stop inventing tables and tops of these. The dialogue we have to have is in Parliament, this is where we are all represented; not at parallel tables, not at parallel summits. Here, where all Catalans can see it, where all Catalans can follow the debate, and not in those meetings that you have behind closed doors. It is that, in fact, we have called for the urgent appearance of President Torra, to come here, to give his face, to explain to us to see, to explain the shame of these twenty-one points, which do not speak, which obviate half the Catalans, eh? Let's see what they're doing with that appearance. Let's see if they kill her, though, well, do you know what's going on? , that Mr. Torra can come here whenever he wants and hasn't done it already – he hasn't. We already know that, from oratory, then, it goes justifiably, eh? But at the very least, I'd have to come here and face it and explain this to the Catalans. More things he's told me... it's that, really... you, who keep trampling, violating the rights of all Catalans who don't think like you. It's just that they've come here... I don't know..., this is what it puts here – this is what it puts here – how are they going to try to justify something? If you, I insist, despise and humiliate half the Catalans: not a single point of twenty-one that speaks of all the Catalans, not one. But, of course, how is that going to be, if Mr. Torra thinks we're not even Catalans, if we're Spanish people who live in Catalonia, right? Or, as Mrs Borràs says, we are « Spaniards born in Catalonia, which is already curling the curl. Come on, or else, we're not even people, we're beasts with human form, right? This is what Mr Torra thinks and it is very clear here – it is very clear here – in this document. I, of course, look, I say to you: the only valid table of dialogue is that which we hold here, in Parliament, in the Parliament of Catalonia, where all Catalans are represented, I insist, and also those whom you obviate and despise every day. We need to talk here, within the laws and within Parliament. And you don't do one thing or the other. And, indeed, perhaps they deceive Mr Sánchez, they deceive Mr Iceta, so to make them commulgate with mill wheels, but with us they do not count, with us they do not count to discredit our institutions. And I insist, take advantage of what's left of Mr. Sánchez, take advantage of the chollo, because as soon as there are elections, the chollo is over. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.59.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, it's the vice president's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.60.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm the first one to ask for respect for the President of the Government of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Respect for the President of the Generality. You don't share the ideology, thinking or political thinking of the President of the Generality and his Government, but I think you deserve a respect that you didn't have. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And, therefore, I believe that, apart from letting me speak, if I may be, and being able to answer your question, I believe that you should correct and treat with respect everyone, so that you do not do it. And you're very fond of the hemerotheque, and we can get the hemerotheque out of a lot of people, even, some years ago they were taking part in the Via Catalana, in Tarragona. [[Greetings.]] So, listen to me, the paper is a long time in this life, and by the way, so we carry a lot of years of political militancy and we've probably been more uncertain and sometimes less. But I think what's important is the ability to try to put a little on someone else's skin, which is what you never do. We work and govern for all the citizens of Catalonia, for all – for all – for those who have voted for us and for those who have not voted for us. And since you're referring to the dial table, the dial space, you've gathered the last Tuesday. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , this dialog area sees the compliment of a motion approved for this Parliament. It was this Parliament, through a young man who was discussed, who we were able to discuss and who was able to vote, and who was approved, that we met. I have completed a parliamentary mandate. And, obviously, the fall for you will always be there: there will always be an open fall for you to sit there. The other thing is that you don't want to come because you don't want to give legitimacy to what political forces think that you don't feel the same way. You've been better off with the one thought. It was better for you to think that everyone who defends independence is a horrible people with whom you can't talk. And I believe that precisely with those with whom you are in the political ancestry it is with whom you have heard talk, nor that you are to see the differences. Therefore, I insist on them, they have the Palau of the Generality open doors to meet. The same way we do it here in Parliament, we can do it in the Palau of the Generality. The same way that Mr. Rivera and Mrs. Arrimadas are meeting with political and institutional leaders from all walks of life and not just in parliaments, you can do the same with the Government of the Government of Catalonia. What's going on? That the Government of the Government of Catalonia, therefore, is not what you like, but they should respect what the people voted on 21 December. Because in the end I think his problem is this: his problem is that the result of the 21st of December is a result that they do not like, and as they do not like, his reception is to say: « Listen, let's do it from the tax and apply a 155. And you're experts in creating, so, words and repeating them. Parliament's Tank, the one that was produced was the one of 155. This was the Parliament's lockdown. There are deep links here because there are Members who cannot be involved in the proceedings of this chamber applying an article of the Criminal Court which in previous cases had never been applied in this way. And you don't report it. They may remain impassable before this injustice. I think they're aware of that. But what we need to recognize here is that precisely where there is... that Parliament has locked up are political prisoners and exiles, who can't come here. These do have the Parliament closed, because they as elected deputies can come to defend their positions. Before all this, I think he has more sense than ever – and after listening to his intervention – that we stand firm to negotiate, dialogue and make politics. Because politics is not imposed, politics has to listen to each other and try to lay down positions to improve people's living conditions. The policy is not to be a television set, nor to work with slogans, nor to shoot hemerotheque, which you know very well; and I repeat them: from hemerotheque, everyone in tea– everyone in tea. So the policy is to negotiate and talk. I think you're showing that you don't have a political stake, and I'm saying it with... you know, I know very hard to say it, you don't have a political stake to represent how you deserve the people who voted for you, that I think you're expecting something else from you: wait for them to stay and find solutions and not just to put problems on the table, because apart from you, to find out everything you don't like, to find out that I'm a horrible people, you haven't made any proposals on the table, zero proposals. This is their political programme, zero proposals or only one: implement 155, against the electoral results and democratic decision of these people of 21 December. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.61.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Question to the Government on budgetary policy]] [[300-00083/12]] The next question to the Government is about the budgetary policy, presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The honourable Member, Mr Santi Rodríguez, explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.62.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members, Members, the timing is great to continue the debate, but I will avoid and focus on the question of inquiry, which is the government's presuppositional policy. It will allow me to begin by reminding you of an article from the Catalonia Public Finance Law which I am sure you know very well, which is Article 32, which says that the Bill of Presumptions will be forwarded to Parliament before October 10th – it is understood that October 10th of the previous year, right? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Therefore, we are at 7 February, almost, councillor, seven months before the government should have submitted the premise to Parliament. We already know that in recent years this has been practically impossible, a few times this article of the Law of Public Finance of Catalonia has been completed, but it is given different circumstances, and, mostly, that there was a presuppositional negotiation in the march or that, therefore, the presuppositions were about to enter the Parliament. And it gives us the impression that this isn't the case we're dealing with right now. Obviously, it is obvious that the premise is the most important norm of any government, in which priority is placed and resources are allocated to different public policies. Therefore, the Law of Presuppositions, in a way, is shaped by the plan of government, by a government, is defined as those which are the priority programs of this government, and, therefore, has a special relevance to all the other laws approved by Parliament and to all the other standards. But it will also allow me to remind you that you have another reading, that it seems to me that at these times it is not less, is it not? The presentation of the Law of Presuppositions is also a measure of the parliamentary supports that a government has and, therefore, allows to assess whether that government that at a certain time obtained a majority in order to be able to form government maintained these major parliamentary ones that allow them to continue to govern, according to criteria that are expressed in the presuppositions. And in this sense the President of the Generality, to which I would say that I have not heard him, since he is president– and not before–, practically nothing I could share, yes, the 3rd of August used an expression that I think we can share all the folds. And he said: "Governments tend to resign if their assumptions are not approved. It's a democratic warrant for self-requirement. I had doubts as to whether at the time he was using this expression to refer to his own Government or to refer to the Government of Spain, I had this doubt. But, well, the expression I think is valid for the two governments, both for the Government of the Generality and for the Government of Spain. But in any case, we are in the Parliament of Catalonia and we are talking about the assumptions of the Generality. It will allow me to quote the three elements, three phonenal elements of any assumptions and the incidence they have. First place, by the way of the tickets. Yesterday, in different interventions and you also recognized that the year 2019, in the exercise 2019, the result of the economic growth, the result of the growth of the economic activity, the administrations will have a much higher number of entries than they had in 2018 or 2017, because, like 2018, the assumptions of the Generality were already extended, therefore, if we refer to 2017 will still be more important. So, we'll have more tickets, the government will have more tickets, and in the premise, so, these tickets are assigned, these resources are assigned to the public policies that are decided, right? We are convinced that, in this sense and in these circumstances, there is more room than enough to reduce taxation to Catalans. I believe that we all agree that the taxation of Catalans is of the highest, not to mention the highest, of all Spanish communities, and this is, to a large extent, the fruit of the decisions taken by this Parliament and the fruit of the different governments of the Generality. Therefore, at this point in time when there is an increase in revenue from the improvement of economic activity, we understand that it is good to reduce the fiscal effort made by the citizens of Catalonia, for many reasons. In the first place, therefore, surely, because we are more in favour of people's resources being administered by the same people who do not administer them to them. But also, if people, people have more resources, they also have more opportunities to make investments, they also have more opportunities to consume more, they also have more opportunities for economic growth to increase and, therefore, this does not mean that resources are withdrawn from the same Administration, but that growth is accelerating and moving further. But also, and I believe that in this sense there is unanimous strength, this increase in entrances allows us to allocate more resources to public services, and in this sense we pass, let's say, to the chapter of expenses. Teaching, sanitation, social services, investments... Everyone claims – we too – that there is more effort in teaching, more presupposed efforts in sanitation, improving the quality of public services, right? And with extended assumptions there are no possibilities to allocate more resources to all these policies. Therefore, the fact of not having assumptions is a limitation; it can be larger, because it is smaller, but it is a limitation to increase resources to public policies – education, sanitation, social services, dependency or investment. It will also allow me a little mention of the policy of the debt. They announced to us at the end of the year, and yesterday he reiterated, that they abandon the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, move on to the Finance Facility Fund. This, first, is a symptom of a million of the Generality's finances, and that satisfies us. What will mean to practice is less control on the part of the Ministry of Heritage; under normal conditions, it would satisfy us, but it will understand that we don't mean you, and, as we don't mean you, so we prefer you to be more protected by the Ministry of Heritage than you have more freedom in this sense. But to practical effects what it will represent is that the interest that will be paid for the debt will be the same as the Automated Liquidity Fund; if I don't remember it badly, at these times it continues to be at 0.834_per_cent, a type of interest quite different from what they can find on the market, which is their wish. And it would be everyone's wish if that meant the better of the generality's public finances, but it gives me the impression that this is not the situation: all the rating agencies continue to place the Catalan debt in a rather regrettable state and, practically, impossible to go out on the markets to seek finance. The return to the assumptions, because all these elements, somehow, condition the elaboration of these assumptions. And it will allow me to make a statement to you, which is what I ask you to convince me that this is not so: we have the feeling that you mass, mass, mass interest in having a presuppositional debate, do not have it; but interest in bringing the presuppositions to the Parliament of Catalonia, you do not have it. I believe that there are four elements that justify this statement, that I put to your consideration and, therefore, I hope you will tell me your arguments. In the first place, actually, having more tickets and having less spending commitments, because they do not have the approved assumptions, allows them to improve the financial situation. Surely the best of the past few years is also in the sense that 2016 did not have assumptions, that 2018 did not have assumptions. So, man, somehow, this is good for you. Second element. There are no assumptions that can keep the victimist speech going. It is to say, lack of resources to the teaching, to the sanitation, to the dependence, it is manifest the teachers, it is manifest the masters, it is manifest the university students, it is manifest the bombers..., « escolti'm, is that it is the fault of Madrid – it is the fault of Madrid –, everything that happens to Catalonia of pain, it is all the fault of Madrid. And, therefore, there are no assumptions that can sustain this victimism. Third element. Avoid having fun without important things, as one of you has said some time. In this way, you can be focused on the process and, in retrospect, you have hooked, like the dentist, the weakest president of the Spanish government of the past forty years, and if anything can happen to you, then, look, better than better. I, finally – which I also think is of the most important – avoid having to prove in this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.63.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.64.0	...if this government has the majority enough to continue it or not. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.66.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, from the deep discrepancy and even from the political antagonism, I thank you for all of this. I think it's good that we can disagree, that we can argue, and all that we can do with vehemence, but with respect. You've always had it, and that's what I recognize. That said, let's start now with the discrepancies, which are many or almost all. You have obviously begun quoting the Law of Finance of the Generalitat de Catalunya, which establishes that the date of presentation of the assumptions is to be produced in Parliament on October 10 of the year before the assumption that is to be approved. But it is obvious, and you have found, that this government has to work to have a majority parliament in order to approve and to bring these assumptions forward. And that happens in very different governments, and it can't go far away – it can't go far away. The current assumptions in force in the State, assumptions of the year 2018, approved for the government of Mariano Rajoy, when did they approve the Council of Ministers? – the ones of 2018. March 28, 2018. So until it gets to what it took for the Rajoy government to approve its draft budget, we have a lot of margin. And what took them so long? Because they were working on having the necessary supports. They won the support of Ciutadans in the first term, and after different groups, including the Basque Nationalist Party, to present them. And I think it's a practice to consider, this: before you bring in some assumptions without having the majority insured to pull them forward, work the majority. And this sometimes needs more time, it hardly needs more time, yes; but it is the option with which we are working the Government of the Government of Catalonia. So..., and let's reason you can understand them perfectly, because it's the same criteria that Mr Montoro used: don't take them to Parliament if you don't have enough support. In fact, if we did the opposite, you would criticize us for carrying a presumption without holding the supports tied. So in a context of political fragmentation, each time more – by luck, we have overcome bipartisanship – with much more diverse and plural parliaments, we need to make a much greater effort to be able to reach agreement. And this sometimes takes more time, and that's where we're set. So the first reason is this. You have made reference to different elements of the Generality's premise, and I will also make some comments. First place, tickets. I do not agree with you that Catalonia's taxation is excessive. We believe that it is a proper, correct taxation, in agreement with our economy, in agreement with the needs of our society. I disagree with you about a public, political, economic policy approach; you consider that it is better to lower taxes at the expense of lowering public services, and that, therefore, it is the citizens who, having these money at their butxaca..., you say, will be better used. You obviously have a fundamental element of fiscal policy that is redistribution, because the money, to the butxaca of taxpayers, those who have more often than not have more in mind than if there is a redistribution policy through taxation, which, using public services, public services, the welfare state, achieves this redistribution of wealth. And this is a fundamental political difference between you and me, I admit, and therefore I see this great difference. He referred to the year 2017 entries. You know perfectly well that the economic cycle, if it involves major entrances, will have to have policies that think at the same time, that it is important to do so, because, if not, you end up holding more straight, you end up committing yourself to more expense in times of the economic cycle, and like that the economic cycles have moments of height and moments of reduction, then, at times of reduction, it is when you enter into excessive deficits, when you enter into an increase in excessive debt, and, therefore, you are much more limited. Precisely, in order to avoid this dependence on the economic cycle, therefore, to avoid the electoral storm of "we lower taxes now that the economy is well or "we commit much more expense now that the economy is well, Mr. Montoro has invented something, or incorporated it into the Spanish legal order, which is the rule of expense, which put a topall at the growth of expense, to say "man, no, you pass when the thing is very well, because, then, there will be a day that will go badly and you will stay..., you will have stretched the arm more than the maniga. This is for the commitment of the most expense, but it is also for the reduction of entrances. Therefore, we understand that, now that we are pushing for quarters of economic growth, we will make a mistake if we go to a generalized tax rebate that at least public entrances, because, when this economic expansion cycle is over, and the economic cycles are cycles, and therefore there will be times of expansion and times of recession, then we are forced to cut back, because we would have stretched the arm more than the jaw. Therefore, responsible economic policy, redistributive economic policy, and fiscal policy which Catalonia places in the middle of that which we want to assemble, which I must say, in terms of welfare and taxation, is not the middle of the Spanish State. We look further north, we look at the countries of central and northern Europe where there are taxes and tickets, in relation to gross domestic product, much bigger than not here, and it allows them to have a welfare state, in many terms, much better than ours. In the area of expenditure. I'm sorry, I'll be back in the lobby for a moment, because you've made reference to the lobby, but you've left one. In 2017, Mr. Montoro changed the tax regime of VAT, the VAT management regime. What caused this? It has caused that, for a calendar effect, in the liquidation that comes back this year from the year 2017, missing one_month, and, therefore, this has a direct effect of 400_million euros in the case of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Therefore, this has much more impact than any other tax measure that can be made – 400_million euros. And we are working to resolve it, not just Catalonia, but the combination of governments like ours. In fact, they are working so hard, that Mr Feijóo, in Galicia, urged that at the Congress of Deputies is presented a proposal of law of the PP to fix this disaster that made Mr Montoro, which has an impact on the entrances of all the autonomous communities. All in order to fix the state deficit during an exercise in order to be able to give a good image before Europe, carrying, as has always been the case, the responsibility for fiscal adjustment to local communities and municipalities. And I think this is irresponsible. In the realm of expense. You say: "We do not agree on extended assumptions. So let's vote for it, let's vote for it, because what we've seen in the past few years is that you haven't voted for it. And you say that now is the time to reduce taxes and not to compromise 'being in increase of expenditure, but, at the same time, the two most important vectors of increase of expenditure in the assumptions of 2019, in good part, there are also because you have participated in the decisions; some have taken them unilaterally, for example: the increase of salaries of public workers, in which we politically agree. It is decided, with the character of basic law, that is, applicable to all administrations, in a table, where, on the other hand, let's say, employer, who pays, there was only the Ministry of History, when the staff's weight in his assumption is much smaller than that which he has, for example, in the assemblies, or in the Generality of Catalonia and the rest of the autonomous communities. Or the guaranteed income of citizenship, which also entails an increase in expenditure, which we agree with, and which you voted for in this Parliament... So the assumptions never start from scratch. They're always, to a good extent, the result of previous decisions and previous commitments, because we're not getting here... no, it would be an Adamist position, thinking we're getting here and it's all about to be done. No, no, we are the next box of an institutional chain of decisions that have occurred in the past. And, in the realm of the debt, we have managed to get out of the FLA, you do not like that there are, therefore, fewer controls, I understand that your party does not like self-government, but we understand that this is positive and that it demonstrates one thing: that the finances of the Generalita de Catalunya, since 2016, have made a total and a very large and significant better, and that this serves to give more resources to the service of citizenship, now and in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.67.0	Thank you, Vice President. For the reply, now, the words of Congressman Santi Rodríguez come back.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.68.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, me, honestly, huh? , had preferred that, in order to please me all, you went out to the Faristol and said to me: "We will present the assumptions of the Generality the week you see. Each one has what it has, listen'm, but here what is uplifting is the content of the inquiry more than the whole. And you compare the situation of the assumptions of the Generality with the situation of the assumptions of the Government of the State, with the assumptions of Rajoy, but there were some negotiations, and they were in sight, they were in sight, and they were absolutely obvious. What we don't know is if you're negotiating with someone, with some group of this room, because, with the people you're negotiating with, what we know is that they got angry with you. And what we don't know is if they're negotiating these assumptions with someone else who's not in this room; that's what we're worried about. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, man, yeah. With someone... For example, as your defense: "Listen, the assumptions are defended when there is already a stalled negotiation and when there are opportunities to hold the majority parliaments. Are you telling me that Pedro Sánchez presented the assumptions to Congress because he already has a majority agreement? Is that what you're telling me? No, because it's his theory, isn't it? But do you know what's going on? That, like the one you negotiate and the one Mr. Pedro Sánchez negotiates, we don't know three months later, so we have doubts, it's logical. I would advise you rather than a rapporteur, what you have asked is that when the President of the Generality meets with the President of the Government of Spain, he sets up television cameras. They will not need rapporteurs. We can see it all, what's the deal and what's the deal on the table, and in this way we can see if there are any other agreements that, therefore, you keep strictly for yourself, right? You are on the wrong premises, or different from ours, in relation to entry policy and tax policy. Lowering taxes is not the cost of public services, no. No, you're not. I said to him – I said to him – that there were more resources and I think that these more resources could be distributed in different ways, and one possibility is to reduce taxation, and it can be done, while increasing spending. Why can it be done? Because the margin they have is enough to do these two things – that's enough –: reduce taxation and increase spending, and increase spending on public services. They have margin– they have margin. Another thing is that this does not enter among its priorities, well, so look, it will please us more or less; it will please the margin, they have it; it allows, they have it. Stop spending on other things, stop spending on trips continuously, to Waterloo, on instructions, for example. Or in many other things, or in delegations that have no more use than propagating their party ideology. They don't serve all Catalans. Therefore, if you prioritize properly, you can lower taxes and you can increase public service spending. And they say to us: "You want to lower taxes to the one you have most. Listen to me: it's not true – it's not true. When we present a draft law reforming the IRPF is to reduce the IRPF to taxpayers of less than thirty thousand euros, which are 80_percent of Catalans, and which are the ones paying more than all of Spain. It's not the one they have more, it's the one they have less, it's the one you have more glue to – the one they have less. If we are talking about removing the inheritance tax, it is not to benefit those who have more and can pay it; precisely, it is to benefit those who do not have and will sell their inheritances or leave them without pay, because they cannot pay. It's exactly the other way around – it's precisely the other way around – to benefit those who have less. You defend the rule of expense; it seems magnificent to me. I also share it, the rule of expense. Among other things, because it was necessary to impose, the rule of expense, to prevent left-wing governments, traditionally, from having their hands broken, spending on things, how Zapatero did it and how the tripartite, of which Esquerra Republicana was part, did it. Last week we were talking about ATLL. I reminded them of the coming problems of ATLL; of a government of which you were a part and which they were indebted up to those – they were indebted up to those – and then they had to be sold. The impact of VAT, therefore, listened to, seems very good to me, if we want to go and claim it together, but I have not seen it in the twenty-one-point document that the President of the Generality presented to President Pedro Sánchez. And, finally, he says, "Listen, let's have the assumptions. Home, but if you deny me what I'm proposing, it's lowering taxes, so I won't be able to vote for the assumptions. But, above all, do you know why I won't be able to vote for them? Because they haven't presented them to Parliament yet, and so I won't be able to vote for them either. Simply, I can only complain, which is what I'm doing. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.69.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Finally, Vice-President Pere Aragonès has the turn of the line.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.70.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the criteria of presenting or not presenting a presumption in a parliament, whether or not there are majorities assured, I have stated that the Rajoy Government has chosen a criterion and we have chosen a criterion, which, in this case, looks, therefore, are coincident. In any case, about the fact that the Government of the State has submitted its draft budget to the Congress of Deputies without ensuring processing is something that they will have to answer and that I will not do in this chamber. I'm not going in, bitch, to replace them in this answer. You say, "In the end, the conversations between President Torra and President Sánchez, there will have to be television cameras, right? I think that, if this gets stylized, we would end up surprised, some do not know if pleasant or unpleasant, because I would have liked to have seen for a television camera the negotiation that made his party with Vox in Andalusia. You have been, vaja, an extraordinary reality—an extraordinary reality. Or what they've had, for example, also a hidden negotiation, or, in any case..., because I don't think there's any coincidences that the PP, Vox, and Citizens are the ones who agree to vote for all Vox's candidate to represent the Parliament of Andalusia, to be one of the representatives of the Parliament of Andalusia to the Senate, one of the senators by name of the Parliament of Andalusia. Therefore, the television cameras would surely surprise us that they would provide us with very intense sensations, sure. In any case, you question that the increase in vague spending capacity is all intended..., the increase in economic capacity in vague assumptions is all intended for expenditure. We believe that there are many needs; many need that, unfortunately, in the presupposition of 2019, however good it is, much better than the previous ones it is, will never be enough to cover all needs. We in this country need very much; we can only review the agenda of the plenary of Parliament and the proposals that all groups make, which respond to legitimate needs of the citizenry, to problems that exist, in which we must look to give it an answer. Therefore, we believe that in the current circumstances we must take advantage of the increase in the number of admissions there to devote it all to covering expenditure requirements, not to making a tax reduction. Moreover, I believe that, at the moment when we can do the parliamentary processing of this assumption, we will have to make fiscal changes to improve the redistributive capacity of the transferred taxes. And do it in the area of successions and, if necessary, check it out and do it in the area of the fare that we can put on the IRPF's autonomic tram. And we'll have to, because the needs are so great. Because we did not come out of the crisis in macroeconomic terms, but in terms of the reality of a lot of people, we did not come out. There's been an increase in inequalities. And inequalities are obviously fought in many ways. And the public authorities can do it with regulation, and here it would be essential to reverse the labor reform, which has generated more precariousness, but this cannot be done by us now, unfortunately, yet, but we also need to do it with spending policies and with redistributive policies. And to redistribute, you have to rejoin. And, therefore, we believe that this will have to be dealt with in the presuppositional processing. You, well, have made the classic of this expenditure in external action of the Generalitat... In any case, the expenditure in external action of the Generalitat is a hundredth part of that of the State in external action, which is done with the « Brand Spain, and which is now done with Global Spain. And in any case, look, the state is spending the same on foreign embassies as the generality in citizen security for an entire year. And we're in charge of financing thousands of squadron moves to secure all the citizens of this country. And we're not just dedicating the Interior Department to this, are we? But the whole Interior Department has the same assumption as Mr. Margallo's and now Mr. Borrell's embassies. And in any case, you point the deficits to a single cause. But the major deficits that have occurred at the length of the story are not for an increase in spending, they are for ideological reductions in taxation, which are the ones that have produced the major deficits at the length of the story and in very different contexts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.71.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the state of public education]] [[302-00054/12]] We move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the dissected item, the motion following the Government's inquiry into the state of public education, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forwarding Units. And to expose it, Congresswoman Esther Niubó has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.72.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, we present a motion that wants to serve as a stimulus to respond to the most urgent needs that we believe public education has at these times. We have incorporated into all points of the motion the need for a sufficient match in the next presuppositionary exercise to make it possible. And, therefore, if this motion for a resolution is approved, we will be very much on the line, to see that these parties are actually contemplating it. What's the matter with us and what have we put in store for this young man? Above all, in the first place, the inclusive school model, of which we are still antipodes. Warm up more resources. More teacher training is needed, for example, to help with identification, early detection of disorders, which allow for the initiation of treatment long before, to avoid a crossing of school breaks that many children spend during courses. There are also more staff who are teaching and not teaching to make this paradigm change possible, and in all educational and educational stages, whether or not they are lectual. And, above all, the basic: what it is to continue..., or not to continue, cannot continue to retaliate in resources that directly affect the attention of this student, as this course has passed. Therefore, in this case, we are putting in place concrete measures to give compliments and to deploy, once and for all, the decree of the same Government. In zero-three education, we also accumulate infra-financing courses from this educational stage. In the last seven years there has been a public service that has been loaded over the spaces of family and joints, which at these times are more than 80_percent of the square. And, therefore, what we ask of the government is that it recovers the co-responsibility in an area of exclusive competitions, and that, therefore, makes it possible..., it provides the resources necessary to ensure both the support of these larities of municipal infants as the return of the debt pending with the gatherings – which, of course, is much more than the 20_million euros announced. And, therefore, we ask you to return to 1,600-1,800 per square and year; to third party financing. And this is the proposal that the motion contemplates. In school segregation – it is obvious and we know alarming data – we find ourselves in front of a structural problem: Catalonia is among the two countries with the most school segregation in Europe. There is a very high correlation between low-income families and early school dropouts. And the social background to school outcomes today is stronger than it was in 2003. And, therefore, all this requires the joint administration, but especially also the Department of Education, to take courageous measures and even anything that may be unpopular, but to take it at once. And, therefore, beyond the signature of the pact promoted by the Synod of Greuges, it is necessary to provide this pact presumably to make it effective, it is necessary to take additional measures to ensure that public and concerted centres are made responsible in a balanced schooling, which we do not have today. I want to remind you that the 80_per_cent of the foreign alumni goes to the public school, that two_of_each_three public schools in Barcelona have more than twice as many immigrants as the closest concertee. And, therefore, there are nine measures of admission to alumni that are supposed to be better in terms of fairness. And let us celebrate that, just this week, in the Council of Government, the elimination of the additional score has been approved to resolve situations of employment in the pre-registration process for students with family members who have been educated at the centre and which, therefore, favours a certain social concentration. We believe that it is untimely to ensure that all centres receiving public funding, regardless of their ownership, publish and report on the legal system of quotas, and therefore on their voluntary nature and not associated with schooling. And if we really believe in the need to act against segregation, we also need to recover the six hour at school, to end, precisely, with the hourly difference with the concert. People who think they can't look at another gang. And the fight against segregation also means resources, as I said, especially for the educational centres in a disadvantaged socioeconomic context, whether of high complexity or of maximum complexity. It is necessary to increase the share for the acquisition and purchase of teaching materials, both text books and material, which today is one_third of what was intended for 2011. And they call for measures to strengthen the seedlings of these centres with such esteem, to precisely strengthen educational projects and teaching teams. For what it does to the beggars, we ask them to face up to the problem, to act, not to expect the proper government to solve it, to adopt an agreement or the legislation that is necessary to preserve a media space that is eminently educational, that must be inclusive and of quality with all that it supposes. And we're also asking you to get the caterer back at the institute. It can't continue to happen that a 12-year-old child in ESO's age, so he has this service and that two months later he loses the service and more the help associated with that service. And, therefore, feeding at this stage is fundamental and is a matter of political will. And ultimately, we place them against educational inequalities also working so that the knowledge of a third language does not go beyond the economic possibilities of parents or seas to pay an extracurricular or to pay for stays abroad. And, therefore, we ask you that you can also keep every year a debate on education in Catalonia in this Parliament because we understand that the country deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to defend the papers presented has the word the deputy Bernat Solé, for the Parliamentary Group Republicà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.74.0	Good morning, Vice President. MPs, MPs..., Mrs Niubó, in this young man you almost summarise all the work the department is doing and, in fact, more than a young man could be a working document that could be at the same table as the secretary general or the same councillor. Obviously with the discrepancies or the differences that we may have in the layout. On all fronts, I am grateful that it is an ambitious young woman, and on top of that, I am grateful that we have been able to reach a good part of the agreements that at the time, so I have already moved it. The fact that we agree in the diagnosis is a first step, but if more we agree in good part of the solutions I think this is a definite step. Now I can do that, and then I'll talk to you about it, in this sense. He asks us, first of all, for a report on the course. Obviously, the department is already doing it, and it's not just the department making a report because parliamentary groups are asking for it, because it's a way..., it's an indispensable tool to make good planning and to detect who are the deficiencies that need to be addressed or brought back. He talks about the implementation of the inclusiveness decree; totally agreeable. At the time the parliamentary group that I represent gave us support and, therefore, what it is now is to put economic resources to the end of this inclusive decree. In fact, this same course has already increased the matches to start walking in this sense. We are very clear that we need to identify who are the resources in the territory; we need a job in the network; we need good planning; we need a system to inform families of who are the resources available to the Education Department precisely, so that we can build this inclusive model. But, for another band, therefore, we also need to give support to inclusive schooling through SIES, the ancient USEE. Also give support to integral support classroom programs, resource centers, etc. And to do that, we need a presuppositional game. And to have a presuppositional item, concretely of 102_million euros in this distance from inclusiveness, therefore, we have some presuppositions. They're talking about zeros three years ago. Well, partially okay, and actually, I'm not just saying it, but the same counselor said it when he said at the time that his intention was to get this co-responsibility back. Now, I'd like to put this down and refer to a little bit of where we're coming from. We have a statute of autonomy that says that the competence of management as a child, in child education is of local governments. And, therefore, the agreements that were signed at the time with the assemblies did not oblige the Generality to make this contribution. What I don't want to say is that the Generalitat the Government of the Generalitat does not feel responsible and, for this reason, despite the years when the economic recession took place, it was not possible to make these contributions, at these times, the department is very clear that it needs to recover this responsibility. It is necessary to recover those moneys that were not brought to the assemblies, but to do so in a responsible way. And that the money that comes back to the joints is fully invested in child education. For what he does to the Covenant against Segregation, we have already added to it. Actually the department, so, it's been since the first moment working together with us, as a parliamentary group, we've also joined. And, therefore, in this sense we would invite, therefore, those political forces and entities representing the educational community that also join. This pact will obviously be heard if there is a consensus and if there is an economic contribution that makes it possible. For what it does to the publication of shares of the concerted schools, we are totally in agreement. In a system, precisely, in which we defend transparency in all senses, so we ask that this information may be at the top of all families. For what he does at six o'clock, it will be the point at which we will not give support; we will abstain. Precisely not because we do not agree in the need of one_sixteen hour, but not in a general way. And in any case, what we're going to open up to is to debate this need and that man is implementing this six hour. If we do it in general or if we do it, for example, to treat the centers with the greatest complexity. Or if this has to generate an increase in lectual hours or may be due to completion from support staff, taking into account, therefore, that the widespread implementation of the six-hour period would suppose about 80_million euros. We're talking about a start-up for teaching material, we're totally on board. Always from a review of what really is the teaching material that the schools ask for, we don't just need to talk about books but we need to talk about a lot of other topics. They're talking about middle space, so the department has already made it clear that there's a regulation on this issue. Finally, you said it before, and I say it again, for long to come, it's just presuppositional games. We agree with the diagnosis and we agree with the solution, that we need to have some assumptions. Therefore, I demand their responsibility. They ask them to stop being this white mark of the Spanish Socialist Party and to follow what they have always claimed, this PSC [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] Let them sit down at the table, which I'm sure we'll agree on. And I don't think of myself as an example of being given support here if we give support to Madrid. I don't think Madrid is a conditioner...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.75.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.76.0	...adequate and here you can give the right conditions to approve a good assumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.77.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, also to defend the papers presented, has the word deputy Xavier Quinquilla for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.78.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, indeed, Mrs Niubó has made an extensive and comprehensive list of priorities in the field of education, really, practically a plan of government. We understand, and it seems to us very well, that you have as your mission, therefore, to assess precisely the degree of accomplishment in the matter of these policies, surely here we have opposing visions, but in any case, to recognize this constructive will. He said points on which to advance, and in any case I will refer to the end of my intervention, that I have found myself missing a particularly important and relevant one. In any case, I also wanted to refer to your intervention in the question to Councillor Bargalló, when you were talking about the continuous line of the department as a problem. Tell him that from Juntes per Catalunya, we feel very comfortable with the line of the department, with the highest degree of detail, and we understand that this continuity of previous educational policies, for us too, is a recognition of the good work done by the department. We understand that educational policies do not cease to be fundraisers; fundraisers that can bring us back to very complicated moments, which is really where well done work is put in value, in times of difficulty, from moments where the economic crisis has to be faced, with the painful details – that we are reversed and we share the need to continue to reverse – until the complicated management of the application of 155, which, in the case of the Department of Education, believe me, had a lot of bad things to do. Catalan school model that – I want to remember – is articulated through the LEC and which held the support of the 80_per_cent of this Parliament. And, therefore, when we speak of continuity in educational policies it should be precisely normality in the mark of consensus that can be preserved in this sense and put in value. A consensus that, we understand, re-expresses this motion that we share, practically in its totality, and that expresses, as I said, this continuity in the definition of priorities in educational matters from this constructive will – I repeat and reiterate – in contrast, surely, with other destructive attitudes that often bring us very few proposals. We share priorities, as Mr Soler said, and we would like to share solutions. And, in this sense, I will give you some examples: fight against school segregation, absolutely agree and we share with ourselves the document that is being led by the Synod of Greuges. And also, obviously, the necessary co-responsibility of public and concerted educational centres. Without obviating, yes, as the syndic's document also goes back, that in many cases segregation has an economic origin, which affects both the public and the private, and that, therefore, we can hardly speak of co-responsibility if we do not face, at the same time, the problem of infra-financing that affects the whole system. Inclusive school decree, absolutely. I can implement it, we agree. Implementing it, and you haven't made a reference, also means more resources, as well as a necessary set of infrastructures that solves existing deficiencies. As well as co-responsibility in zero education three years. We really need more resources. And, quite rightly, a very important part of the solution has to see, precisely – and you have not made reference to names sometimes in your intervention – with funding. And, therefore, I rely directly on the approval of our assumptions. Consent in educational matters does not only mean sharing diagnosis, strategy or priorities, it also means participating, colza to rape, to make it possible, if not, Mrs Niubó, we are cheating. And, finally, I gave it to the principle that I was missing an important point. And it is that we would also have liked an explicit support for the academic community before the political, police and judicial offensive that are patenting our schools, with false accusations, as you know, of indoctrination or permanently posing in question the linguistic model. A model, I want to remember, is the result of a broad consensus of which some, always the same, are neither there nor want to be, because its only reason to be is to carry precisely the model of Catalan school. A broad consensus expressed, we also understand, in this motion and to which I would like to call to defend folds and without cracks that freedom of expression, respect and coexistence are essential pillars of our educational model. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.79.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then, to fix her position, has the word Sonia Sierra MP, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.80.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, congressmen, congressmen, the Councillor of Teaching didn't come today. The governments of Convergence and the Republican Left, with the support of the CUP, have made ferocious cuts in education, and what has affected the most is, above all, the public school. The same ones who say that the school will always be ours and that the school isn't touching – that I don't know who they thought they were to make this type of claims–, well, these are precisely the ones that have done the most harm to public education. Yes, at the head of the nationalists, the Catalan school is a model of success. Let's go to objective data, see what the Catalan school's encapsulated and what the encapsulated school's unencapsulated. First chance to cap it: Catalonia is, with a lot of difference, the autonomous community with more barracks; neither the governments of Convergence, nor the governments of the Republican Left, nor those of the PSC, nor those of the Initiative for Catalonia - The Greens when they went rotating to power have ever done anything to end this scourge. Secondly, Catalonia is the autonomous community of Spain and the region of Europe where immigrant students get worse academic results. Thirdly, Catalonia is one of the autonomous communities where the academic results of students depend more on the socioeconomic situation of their families. In fourth place, Catalonia is Spain's second autonomous community with more school segregation. And in five places, Catalonia is the only autonomous community that devotes zero_euros to education from zero to three years. These are the paths that encapsulate her. Unfortunately, we are not capable of excellence: we are neither firsts, nor seconds, nor thirds, nor quarters, nor fives, nor in mathematics, nor in science, nor in language skills. This is the success model of nationalists: barracks, school segregation, lack of equity and equal opportunities and zero_euros in education from zero to three years. I personally felt ashamed to say that this is a model of success, but we already know that by supremacising the Catalans we are taller, prettier and prettier than anyone else. [[Widow's remorse.]] And then there are other aspects that don't come up at the meeting, but that are also terrible; one of them is the poor education of the Members. Well, no, we're talking about education. [[Widow's remorse.]] There's a chance...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.81.0	Madam Member, if you don't know how hard it is, the presidency will exercise the moderation of the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.82.0	Yeah, we know you're cutting whoever you want. There's ringings... there's aspects that don't come up at ringings...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.83.0	My honourable Member, I would be grateful if you would also take the presidency with courtesy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.84.0	And I don't like it when I'm talking. We already know that there are aspects that do not come to the race and are equally terrible, for example, cold in classrooms due to lack of heating; students with autistic spectrum who cannot stay to dinar to the beggars, much so that they deny it here; deaf students who do not have sign language interpreters, and we also have students who suffer badly, or by the profession of their families or because their families have demanded their right to bilingual education. The issue of settlement is so bad that in the later feelings it is a special element that the intimacy of these minors must be preserved so that they are not astounded as has happened in previous cases. Here, from Ciutadans, we have repeatedly asked for support for these minors, protecting these minors, who do not 'lsassetgi. And what did they vote for? Against, they voted against protecting minors. I'd be ashamed of myself. On the other hand, we have to say that the details have had a very hard impact on the working conditions of the faculty. Teachers and teachers carry years working more hours for less money and without recovering the foreign payments that have recovered their colleagues from the rest of Spain. And, besides, the faculty has to work in some classrooms every time more diverse without the necessary support and help. Afterward, everyone's mouth is filled with inclusive school, but today neither autism students are left to the beggars nor deaf people have a sign language interpreter. Certainly, this does not require implementation of this decree. For this, with completing the law, we already do. This is collected for the law and is not complete. We, in general, will support this young man, but we will vote against the point that speaks of the Pact against Segregation, because, of entry, of pact, of very little, because the majority of parties of this chamber do not want to add to us; and, we, personally, have not added to us because they do not want to incorporate measures. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] that would actually serve, such as free text books or ending the linguistic segregation that there is Catalonia. Because in Catalonia, if you have money...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.85.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.86.0	...you can study in more than one vehicle language and, if you don't have money, you can only study in one vehicle language. If this isn't segregation for linguistic and economic issues, they'll explain what it is. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.87.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, also to fix his position, has the word the deputy Yolanda López, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.88.0	Thank you, Vice President. Members, Members, Councillor, first of all, Mrs Sierra, it is you who have done nothing, because you have neither ruled nor will govern, because you are increasingly alone. [[Greetings and remorse.]] This motion on education appears to be a statement of intent or a list of outstanding issues on equal opportunities in education. However, it does not complete its economic and temporary commitments. And that, in fact, he knows little by little. We are surprised that the PSC at the Children's Plenary, when it looked like little 45_million_of_euro in education from zero to three years, insisted that we had to land in numbers the mandates and intentions; 45_million_of_euro is our minimum proposal, we have to reach 80_million. That is why we cannot vote in favour of this point, because to a government that does not govern and is unable to offer social budgets we cannot leave it with open proposals. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we remind you that it is the Administration that should be responsible for ensuring that education is an engine of equality and allowing you to be born wherever you are born to choose your future. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, a quality, inclusive and feminist public education is a great present-day pact to win the future on equal terms and in a position to decide. This is the only way to combat social inequality and to generate a critical citizenship committed to its environment, which participates in an informed manner in decisions affecting it. And this does not come out alone, we must deploy the appropriate measures and rely on the educational community. So devote time and attention to listening once and for all to the educational community and you will have the roadmap you seem to need. Education spending is still 316_million less than it was ten years ago. They still lack 1,500_million to reach, at least, the 4.4_per_cent of GDP that the state invests, and that which the LEC marked a 6_per_cent for 2017. Catalonia is one of the most segregated schools in Europe. Do you know that a segregated school network erodes the principle of equity and endangers equal opportunities? Of course they do. In 2011 and 2017, FAPAC reported that eight_of_each_ten closures of P3 had occurred in public schools and did not meet educational needs. In addition, we assume that they are aware that the demand has been reversed and the public exceeds the concerted demand. This is not to mention the increasingly precarious economic and working conditions of the teaching bodies. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we welcome the fact that you have finally decided to withdraw the additional criterion of five points per pupil. Go ahead, repeat the enrollment process and find tools to fight segregation. Inform each school and neighborhood of the strict educational quotas, and avoid the economic barriers that supplementary quotas entail. They give the public budget school, give the Pact against segregating the school budget, instead of taking the photo and repeating and repeating that they support the measures. We will not participate in pacts that do not include a budgetary commitment to deployment. We will vote in favour of the point that refers to the pact, but we believe that a government that does not govern, that does not meet minimum standards, that does not comply with Parliament's agreements, must be required to set deadlines and less ambiguities, because so far they have not shown any intention to make social budgets. In order for education to be inclusive, they know that teachers must be trained and guaranteed their working conditions, support students with educational needs, effectively combat segregation, expand dining rooms to high school, recover the sixth hour, strengthen food grants and help to buy books, and reverse the expoliation to education from zero to three years. Stop coming and going to court to dodge your debt with the municipalities, which the Supreme has already told you they will have to pay the. And we ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this will not mean any further cuts, will it? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.89.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the return of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.90.0	Thank you, President. Since then, only to say that our parliamentary subgroup will give support to the great majority of this young man, who seems to us to accurately reflect much of the proposals and demands, at these times, of the educational community, as well as the representative trade union organizations of the teachers, and therefore it seems to us that it is a young man who expresses well at these moments what are the plans of the educational community. We will abstain in a few points to consider them insufficient or not to share their focus. And I would like to refer specifically to points 5 and 6, which refer to the Covenant against School Segregation. Our political group does not support this pact at these times for a fundamental reason: this pact, instead of posing as a question or transforming the present model of concertation, which makes it confirm it, consolidate it, including providing us with resources, as well as this whole young man pretends, which we think..., well, we are absolutely convinced that what he will do is precisely increase the processes of segregation. If we add to this the process, too, of segregation that generate the same public centers for the differentiation that they produce between them, between more elitist centers and more ordinary centers, then it all seems to us that it is a pact that is not answerable to the reasons of background and structural that generate segregation, but that only brings pieces and therefore does not help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.91.0	Thank you, Congressman. And now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it's the turn of Congresswoman Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.92.0	From the seat to make group positioning. First of all, we are surprised that the Education Adviser is not present when you vote on a question on his subject, given that you speak of a lot of success in the Catalan school and repeat it and you say it as a mantra. And, I know, we would have liked them to have included, perhaps, in those twenty-one points that Mr. Sánchez was taught to try to negotiate and agree with him, the state and the situation of the school in Catalonia, because it is in the ranking and they can take breasts out, but it is that they can take breasts out of being the autonomous community with the most students in barracks, twenty_ thousand students, eighty_y_six schools, thousand_ten modules. That's where you have the ranking. And they don't – and they don't – remedy, because year after year they keep these data. Meanwhile, other autonomous communities that do not cry out as you do for that Catalan school that you feel so proud of, such as Madrid or Castilla and León, have, yes, the ranking of not having any students in barracks. Perhaps you should stop looking so much at the navel with the Catalan school, from which you create a model of success, and further copy the model that other autonomous communities make. We will vote yes to most of the points in this motion. We will vote against what is referred to in the Pact against segregation, because we do not agree with the approach that has been taken, especially because we believe that it removes educational freedom from parents to choose the education they want for their children. And we will vote against, above all, points 7 and 8, because it seems to me that the members of the Socialist Party in Catalonia are in line with the educational counter-reform proposed by Minister Celáa in the Government of Spain to want to make the model of concerted education something absolutely subsidiary of our educational system and not complementary and to promote what is most important, which is the consecration of the freedom of parents to choose the best education for their children, which, of course, in Catalonia, cannot find, given the data in which you have in precarious to the educational centers and which do not include in any of those twenty-one points that they say so much about Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.93.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.94.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.95.0	Thank you. To pronounce on the papers, has the new paragraph the deputy Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.96.0	Yes, thank you, President. Above all, in the first place, to thank the construction of all the interventions, the papers presented; to Mr Bernat Solé that we can reach an agreement, and to wish above all that what is approved today is due to end. That's why we're going to be a lot on the presuppositions. But because that's what happened, as I said, resources are down, so that we can overcome this underfunding that Mr. Quinquillà was also referring to, we are totally in agreement, and that's why it's hard to think that resources can be wasted that can come from some of the state's general assumptions. About six o'clock, I've already said, if we seem to believe that we really do the strategy and the need to fight segregation, it's very difficult to do without ending the inequalities between centers, also the inequalities times, and that we don't go into stigmatization, as if we only do in those centers of high complexity. And, therefore, to enter into this Covenant against Segregation, we see that many groups have just generated a lot, a lot of doubts, which are resources. And that's why we'll be looking again at what's on the table. We have been concerned by one specific thing that Mr Bernat Sole said about zero-three. I remember that the exclusive competence is of the Government of the Generality and that the impulse to promote the construction of so many municipal children came from an initiative of the educational community that the majority of this Parliament has collected. So I didn't let him lose. And to Mrs. Lopez, who said that it seemed like a set of intentions, that I knew little by little, to say that you yourselves have acknowledged that you have asked for 45_million euros. You know what that means? That means eight hundred euros. And we ask twice as much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.97.0	We're calling it a vote. A separate vote was requested from the seven-point vote. Yes, Mrs. Sierra; why ask me the word? [[Pause.]] Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.98.0	I'd like you to tell me the literal phrase so hard that I said it because it's stuck twice when this same morning it's been accused of something as hard as normalizing fascism and it hasn't been said re. What did I say so hard for you to mtalli twice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.99.0	Anyway, Mrs. Sierra, you'll allow me..., it wasn't..., I had another compromise, I wasn't in the hemicicle. Anyway, we'll talk about it later. I don't know exactly what happened, Mrs. Sierra. We'll talk about it. [[Andrea Levy Soler asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Levy...? [[Sonia Sierra Infante asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.100.0	In any case, the person who did it, please, to say publicly what I said so hard, that it's so much harder than not to say that we normalize fascism, because Mr. Chakir is allowed to say this barbarity to the House and I don't know what I said so hard that I was cut, not one, only twice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.101.0	The Lord Councillor El Homrani, in any case, Mrs Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.102.0	Yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.103.0	Anyway, I told him we'd talk about it. I'm disconnecting now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.104.0	But can't you say that publicly?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.105.0	We'll talk about it, and then we'll discuss it with you later. Lady Levy, tell me. [[Pause.]] Say, yes – yes, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.106.0	Separate vote: points 5, 6, 7, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.107.0	Can you go together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.108.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.109.0	No, 5, 6, 7, 8, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.110.0	Vote separate from point 4, please. [[Bernat Sole and Barril ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.111.0	Say'm, Lord Solé. [[Pause.]] Right now?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.112.0	Right now. Vote separate from point 9, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.113.0	From the point?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.114.0	Nine.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.115.0	Okay. If we seem to vote separately all points, why have they practically asked for separate vote from all, huh? So, we'll start the vote... [[Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]] Excuse me. Yes, ma'am Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.116.0	Yeah, so do Punt 2, which I don't think...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.117.0	No, we'll do all the points separately, Mrs. Bravo, so... All right. Let's get to the vote, shall we? [[Pause.]] Let's start by voting on the 1st point of this young man. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved unanimously; that is to say, 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. This point was approved by 91 votes to 36 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. This point was approved unanimously; 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number four. The vote begins. This point was approved by 119 votes to 8, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the fifth point. The vote begins. This item was approved by 84 votes to 40, with 3 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. The sixth point was approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 7 abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the seven-point. The vote begins. The seven-point was approved by 122 votes in favour, 5 against and no abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the 8th. The vote begins. The eighth point was approved by 123 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the new point. The vote begins. The new point was approved by 67 votes in favour, against and 60 abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the point you want. The vote begins. This point was approved unanimously; 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the one-off. The vote begins. The one-off was approved by 127 votes in favour, against and against, that is, unanimously. And now we're going to vote for the dot. The vote begins. This point has also been approved unanimously, i.e. 127 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the 14th point. The vote begins. This point was approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions, that is, unanimously. And now we're going to vote for the 15th. The vote begins. The fifteenth point has also been approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the seven-point. The vote begins. The seven-point was approved by 125 votes in favour, against and abstentions; therefore, also unanimously. And finally, we vote for the dissected point and go back to this place. The vote begins. The dissenting point was approved unanimously, i.e. 127 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. Yes, Mr. Swordler, ask for the word for...? [[Widow's remorse.]] Silences – silences – and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.118.0	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. He asks for the word so that I can explain the different votes that I have made with respect to my group, according to what Article 103.3 establishes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.119.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.120.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. From the perspective of Unites per Avançar, which is what I represent in the yes of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, the question of teaching, of education, starts from two fundamental premises: the first, which is the freedom of creation of centres, which we consider to be absolutely fundamental, and the second, the freedom attended by families, from our point of view, to choose that school that they want, those educational centres that they want for their children. This is perfectly and is taught by the Constitution, there is and is taught by the State, and there is and is taught by the LEC. And in this sense we wanted to make this different vote. But I would also like to highlight the degree of agreement we have with all that the stake for inclusiveness represents. We have voted seven of the points that we have made here, many with the concert of all the parliamentary groups, but in any case we believe that the elimination, the replacement of the decree of admissions the points that were to be made to the families – only in the case of the step-by-step –, if they were linked to the centres, does not only harm the interests of the part of the school – also concerted –, but also in particular the legitimate interests of the families at the time of being able to exercise this right of election. He said some MP who supported the majority, in this case Junts for Catalonia, that there was a continuity. Not that there's no continuity with the policies of previous governments, and we think it's necessary. And these were the reasons for which, therefore, I made a different vote from my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.121.0	Thank you, Mr. Swordler. They tell me that we skipped the tretze point at the time of voting on it; therefore, we should obviously vote on it. So, we're going to vote on this young man's score, which is what we left behind. Excuse me. The vote begins. The vote was adopted unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into university and research policy]] [[302-00055/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on university and research policy, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. To expose it has the word of Congressman Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.122.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, there is no democratic educational policy outside the welfare pact. And surely this is the most obvious conclusion after extending the public university system of Catalonia, which has been laminating economic policies for a long time without precedent. There is no democracy without universal access to quality public services. This is the pact of welfare that has prevailed in Europe since the Second World War. And if there is a right that reflects the ambition of different governments for welfare is university policy, a key policy to ensure that public universities are a driver of equal opportunities and a driver of progress and future. And I think we need to be clear here: retail policies have placed Catalonia's public university outside the welfare state. A 20_percent of the public budget in universities has been reported; Catalonia is at the top of the OECD's thirty-four countries in public investment in universities. It is no longer that we are under the countries of our circle, it is no longer that we are paying the price of being later incorporated into the Europe of welfare: the main problem is that the policies of detail have made decades back in our welfare state and have made decades back in access to public universities; we have lost, in eight years, what it had cost generations to build. And, therefore, the first one we want to claim today is that we need to recover the funding of the Catalan public universities. And we don't ask for any historical assumptions, nor do we ask for the most academic assumptions of history: we ask to recover the assumptions of the universities from the public details, from the presuppositions, we ask to recover what has been retaliated for eight years in universities. The years of retailing have cut universal access to our universities. Encanny there are two thousand university students less than 2011, that the year that was raised taxes a 67,6_per_cent; since then, every year there have been fewer university students than the previous year, we are back decades. And the question we have to ask ourselves is how many young people are willing to expel from universities to continue legitimizing an abusive tax system, how many young people are willing to expel from college. I didn't kick out a thousand. How many of us are not willing to expel: fifteen thousand, twenty thousand or twenty-five thousand, to continue legitimizing abusive taxes and an unjust co-payment to the public university? A decent government, which you see today the result of the presuppositions and the increase in taxes on universities, as a minimum pardon, would assume the failure of the university system, lower taxes and recover the public investment in universities, because it is a national shame to be at the bottom of the European Union countries in reverse, in public funding of universities, and to be at the head in prices of materials. It is an abandonment of public universities without precedent in our democratic history; for the first time there is a generation that has more difficulties in accessing higher education than the generation of their peers. And this presuppositionary asphyxiation to public universities is passed on to the entire structure of universities. They have transformed university professors into poor workers, into workers who cover structural positions of teachers with salaries under the care of the poor. Associate professorship has increased by 40_percent since retail policies, and this is not only an impromptu injustice of a democratic society, but also a flight of impromptu talent from a country that stands for progress and well-being. All the meritocratic rhetoric that justified retail policies in our country expels the students most prepared for exile or condemns them to the poor. In short, we need to stop the bleeding. We need to recover funding and lower taxes at our universities. And it is necessary to match the prices of degree and master to avoid that the student is left without being able to do all his or her teaching itinerary. And we need to build a model of the future, we need to invest in the university structures needed to ensure university quality in the future. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And I need to bet on a model – and with this I'm finished – decent work, ensuring the quality of teaching in our country and a search model...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.123.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.124.0	...that ensures innovation. And with this I'm done: I want to ensure fairness...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.125.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.126.0	...and fully evaluate our scholarship system. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.127.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Congresswoman Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.128.0	Thank you, President, good morning. Good morning, Members and Members – I see that there is no Councillor... Well, today the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can present an important motion, a motion that unfortunately we have already approved other times in this Parliament and that, so that the Government, therefore, has not complied, we must go repeatedly and we must go here again to approve..., to see if the Government is finally listening to us. It is true that now it is a good time, because as the Government is drawing up its assumptions, therefore, it could answer these requests, which are not only the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode – I think we can see it later on in the vote – but they are also from the entire university community, which is once again very strongly, there are two things, basically: that universities cannot bear the infra-finance they are suffering from and from 2010 until the reduction in millions of euros has been 30_percent, around the 300_million euros of public funding reduction to universities, and this has accompanied them, in fact, to a higher number of universities. Of the fork that allowed, certainly, Wert, the People's Party, when governing the State..., made a modification through a decree for the fork, the cost that the families paid, could increase from 15 to 25_per_cent. Here, that we are always champions of many things, so we went to the highest fork, that is to say, 25_per_cent, to pay families without this cost that meant this increase of 66_per_cent in university taxes. This has led us to be the autonomous community with the highest taxes and, therefore, to a situation that harms access and harms equal opportunities, in an environment, the university, which has allowed many students, many people of working families, as I myself can be, so let us study and have a certain social elevator that allows us to start another way different from our peers. Today this is not so guaranteed, and I am not saying this: the OECD says this in its latest reports, in which, if you have a few minutes and devote yourselves to it, you will see how difficult we have in Spain at these times to ascend socially from one generation to another beginning to pass four generations. That is to say, the difficulties exist, and when there are policies that increase the cost to families because their children can study, so that ends up damaging. And I said yesterday in an inquiry that made the councilwoman, which complements this one that makes Catalonia in Comú Pode, that is that the cost of families is not only the tuition fee; it is also, in many cases, when they go in or when they have to go to another city to study, it is the cost of transportation, the cost of maintenance, the cost of accommodation... And we don't take that into account. And it would be worth it, and I hope that the young lady that we're taking from here to fifteen days can approve some kind of program that is just trying to help families get their children, so they can study whether the career they're interested in or whether the grade they've gotten to the door or lead them to another city. It's a key, this, this isn't a minor issue, it's a topic of equal opportunity and access, of equality, it's very important, if we really want to be a top country. We're always comparing ourselves to the Swedish, to the Dutch, so we shouldn't learn a little bit. And now that the assumptions are not so expensive, of the 30,000_million euros that the Generalitat de Catalunya has of the assumption, that in the field of universities increases without, so increased the assumption in 80_million euros. If we raise the budget between €80 and €100 million in three years, we'd put ourselves at the financing levels of 2010– already, every time it's more long, 2010 than we've ever said – but above all we could reduce university fees and put them at the middle, at least, of the Spanish State. Therefore, it is a very important issue, which I think we should take seriously. I don't know if the counselor today didn't come because she doesn't agree with this; she told me yesterday in the interview: it doesn't match people with us. I hope the young lady today we can approve it and the government, even if she doesn't agree with it, that she doesn't have the majority of Parliament, you have to complete it; as you are doing some effort, that we think clearly it isn't. And we can't, besides, try to cover not lowering taxes with a little more scholarships. No, that's not the point. The taxes must be lowered and the burrows must be increased. And, therefore, the two things have to be done, and that means prioritizing. And yesterday she said: "Priority must be given. So priority. Is it that we don't want knowledge to be the basis of our economy? It's just that we don't want knowledge to allow access to classes that have difficulties or are more vulnerable because they rise socially, why can they get better? So, if that's the case, he's got to bet on this sector, and he's got to put in resources. Because, as it proves to be a priority, it's resource-intensive. Therefore, we have made two very small points, which have been accepted, and we will vote favorably, as it cannot be in any other way, to the whole movement of Catalonia in Comú Pode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.129.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.130.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, president; deputies and deputies, we will tell the truth. How much does university matter to this government? So, obviously, neither the president, nor the vice president, nor the councillor, so he has a few minutes to follow this debate, because, frankly, they don't care about anything. This government will not improve university policy, it did not do so in the previous legislature; it continually invited us to meetings, national pacts, strategic pacts, but it did not change absolutely anything, because unfortunately, as you well know, university policy is also a minor issue for this government. Let me start by making a short note, a defense to the right and freedom to our universities, to our campus. I want to give thanks and all our support to all those people who are defending freedom at the university; to all those who suffered the fascist attack on a Hispanic act on Cervantes at the University of Barcelona; to the companies of Civil Society and It's over! , for their commitment to freedom; to all the teachers and students I am appointed and do not lower your head, the ones you endure [[applause]] death threats to defend plurality. Thank you. To all those in the defense of freedom, many thanks, and not a step back, comrades. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] The university is losing students, and this counseling, as you can see, does nothing. We have the most expensive taxes of all Spain and we don't do anything. We have an underfunded university and that's all there is to it. We have associate professors, with extraordinary precariousness, and you don't do anything. And what do you say, Counselor, when you ask her? Actually, we can do it today. Answer: "The university system has reached a model. Well, I suppose those who have followed university politics, the squandering university politics in Catalonia. As you know, this national pact is exactly the same as the previous government offered us: nothing. Look, if they want reforms, let's get started. They do not need to come to this Parliament to do absolutely nothing; they do not. Lower this 30_percent of the most expensive taxes. But, unfortunately, today there is no councillor to answer, and I would like her to advise you to tell the education councillor – who brought an urgent moratorium here to this Parliament to recognize that our students do not have English level to finish their grades was this government. This government came to ask us, please, to approve the moratorium. Miri, when you speak of the level of excellence, please remember that it is you who, at the instance of the Rectors, asked us and also held our recollection, to recognize that our university student does not have this level. Today we're back to this mess of this young man's. I don't know why we can't either, well, accept it. Well, we saw yesterday's speeches in this Parliament. They are much closer, each time more, to the separatist discourse than to the realistic discourse. So, look, the reality is that you're the same people who recognize this Parliament that our college students don't have English skills either. Stop denying, as they did yesterday, with Sierra's company. This is the reality and we will repeat it, we will insist. We demand transparency and we can, therefore, not accept it. We demand excellence in our work, we demand internationalization, and you do not accept it. We want proposals to improve the university: excellence on campus, freedom, no fairness or imposition; real reforms to improve the results, to be more competitive, to move more and better our students and our teachers; to gather, indeed, knowledge. But you don't. The rectors ask you more recollection, but they already see where the recollection is today, in Catalonia, in this Parliament: absent. And we – to finish – ask what today is also asking for Polytechnics in Catalonia – and it is probably the only thing that you have accepted today – that is to speak of vocation, of vocation also in women, especially on the part of women to science, technology, engineering and mathematics. MPs and MPs, Ciutadans defend freedom, equality, reforms and excellence. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.131.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mrs Gemma Espigares' turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.132.0	Thank you, President. Actually, I was giving it to Congressman Soler right now that it's a little elegant to refer to the government's governing interests – whether it's with a young man who doesn't have to, different from the interrogations. And besides, it is that, if not, I would play to the same populism that you would say to her: "The Member of Parliament, Arrimadas and Carrizosa, they don't care, do they? Because they're not there. It's just... [[Greetings.]] I believe that, unlike this point, with the rest of us agreeing at many points, and with Mr Ferro we have reached compromises on various things: to facilitate this plan of establishment for the faculty and for the administration staff and university staff, that they need it; in this basic funding for research; in which there is a report on scholarships– in fact, not only on scholarships; today there is the book that Mr Vilalta has directed, Building Catalonia of Knowledge, [[the speaker the show]] , of the last thirty years of the university system, and that is also discussion based on data, which is what we do to universities –; with the proposal of Citizens to increase vocations, especially on the part of science and technology, especially in women – and in this we will find all of us. In what things do we have to be able to find? In the National Knowledge Pact, which must be able to talk about all this model and must be able to do so from the consensus, from the university autonomy, but with all the actors in the same table. And this has to lead us to talk not about an investment plan just for 2019 but about all this future challenge that we have. And that also means these single-parent families who require the equipment. I have not just heard why we do not accept a point in which it says that when the State passes the scholarships, when, since 2001, there have been various sentences of the Constitutional Court that say that they must donate the scholarships to us. As long as Citizens tell us to comply with the law, maybe this will also help us to comply and give it to us. Which things do we agree with Esquerra? At the tax drop, and as much as I do. It was sold as a conjunctural situation in 2012 and that's why we support it down. Now, what we can't share is this proposal that they bring us here that we do it linearly and absolutely for everyone, for whom they have more money and can be paid today for whom they don't. And that's why the government has already taken action and since last year it's already paid, it's already down on trams 1 and 2, which are actually the people who have the most problems. They were talking about recovering the 2010 assumptions, and as long as they did. So much! And in fact, Congresswoman Romero was talking about 80 million euros. So the presupposition proposal brings €60_million to deal with some of these measures, and they know it with the presupposition talks, but they also know it with the message that we had submitted to write and that they did not want to approve. What could I do with this? What could I do with these assumptions? What's the matter with the commons? It is said that not to reduce the 3, 4 and 5 trams by a 30_per_cent; it is said that not to equate masters to the level of price C. Yes, yes, in that it is said that not. And they're saying that not a few salary scholarships that will allow a real opportunity for those people who aren't even supposed to get into college. That's all you guys are doing today. On the way? For the way an ILP, an ILP in which our young republic is also involved to lower these taxes, but which must be able to do progressively and not linearly only favor those who really have problems to stay at the university not those that can be paid and enveloped. For the road, some more citizen occurrences, huh? That they always give us the point, like refocusing and that all communities pay the same. No end. To reward excellence, in fact I will read it literally, which citizens ask: "To award independently of the level of income with scholarships. Take it now, you! The people who can afford it, listen, if it's good to pay for college and pay for whatever it takes. And that, by the way, we're starting to know who the Citizen model is on the subject of universities. And wait for you, and Congressman Soler said it. We come here to approve a moratorium because students don't have a university title because they don't have the English B1, B2 level and you ask for the C1, perfect! Look, I understand that opposition to opposition, and it doesn't have to be government, but what do we find when this happens? So we find that we can do 2016, what does it ask? Reversing taxes, advancing towards gratuity; the PSC reduce taxes, advancing toward gratuity. Here when we talk about motions, we all ask for everything, now when a lord who is said to be Coscubiela – little friend of mine, eh? , little friend of mine– but well, Initiative, Common, Catalonia in Comú Can, depending on who else you say it is, approve a law accompanying the assumptions. Therefore, to whom he is going to ‘pasta, to whom he is going to speak of truth, ep! , major of progression, 30_per_cent trams 1 and 2. So put this realism that Mr. Coscubiela posed and get that this 30_per_cent can also be at 4, to 5,... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.133.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.134.0	...except for the people who have more. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.135.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Lluís Font.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.136.0	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first place I would like to excuse the presence of the Business Council, the Business and Knowledge Council because it is precisely now in an important, transcendent meeting with a large Catalan international projection company. To all of us it is appropriate that the product of the negotiation they are undertaking is favorable and reversible to the service of the economy and the university. The truth is, in this session, I'm after things. I have after Mr Soler that "not to take a step back is not only a feminist motto, that sovereignism has made its own, but that he also shares it in relation to the university. And, therefore, epistemologically welcome to the club of those we do not want to go back to what we consider important. [[Greetings.]] I heard that Mr. Lucas Ferro said that we were making a one-generation regression. In conversations, I think we've met a lot in the objectives, but I have to disagree in the context analysis. It does not seem to me that the Catalan university has made a regression of an ever-present generation. We have problems, it's obvious. We can't deny them. And thanks to the efforts made by the same users and their families, and especially the faculty and researchers, we have been able to maintain the level of quality in university education and research. But from here to say we've made a regression, I think there's an important jump. We share the great objectives, the food, the timing that this young man poses, not only because I proposed it to the Group of Catalonia in Comú but because they reflect well the consensus of the university community, precisely of the students who came to see us, Ceucato and they formulated a similar analysis. For us it is very important to make it possible to access training at the length of everyone's life, not just to access university, but to access it, to develop the initial and continuing training courses because the great bet of the country is the talent, the talent of its people. And this reverses to the benefit of the same and is a condition of possibility to develop your own abilities and to have a free life, due to the kingdoms of your own existence, but it is also the future of the joint. And, therefore, all the measures that point to this direction are ours, they are the ones of the country: to make equity possible; to make it possible for everyone to enter the university not only when you are young and finished secondary school but at the length of life. Secondly, it is very important for us that in the Bolonya scheme it is possible to complete a formation not only of degree but also complementary, and therefore to find the mechanisms to guarantee this possibility of formatting itineraries customised to the service of the same university project and also to ensure that universities have the resources they need to do the function that society has commissioned them, in intellectual and human formation, professional training and research, that makes us follow them feel like an innovative country. In this, there is an absolute agreement. Perhaps a point of discrepancy, which Member Gemma Espigares has already raised, is that it does not always treat the same thing as it is different that makes us advance in the land of equity, because, sooner, it tends to consecrate inequality already existing. Therefore, in public policies, bearing in mind the objective, which is to guarantee maximum equality of opportunity, we need to be able to deploy specific policies that address diversity and do not accentuate the starting point. And secondly, in the youth, in some respects, progressivity is accepted, that is, to be able to schedule and develop it in time, and in the others there is an immediate need. What do we say before that? That the big bet is double, of a band, increase public funding of universities, obvious, phonental, without that it would not be worth talking about, but, second place, establish this national pact for the society of knowledge so important that it will allow the joint educational community to set priorities, define the timing of feeling, so that these resources are as efficient as possible. And, if I may, the anecdote, which is not such anecdote, our advisor, when she was Director General of Industry, was the anime of the Pact for Industry, so she knows very well what a pact of these supposes, how to create the context for it to be possible and how to take advantage of it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.137.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. All in all, it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, of the deputy Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.138.0	President, to speak from the Escó. To advance the sentiment of our vote, which will be affirmed, with one exception, that it is that we ask for separate vote from paragraph 3 to point 3. And it will be affirmed because we value very positively the motion that has been presented, fixes these two elements that are central in order to be able to give answers to the policy of public universities, for one band, the need to lower taxes and, for another band, also the need to address the infra-financing of the public university. This same group, too, will present this late, in a motion, the request to lower the 30_per_cent of the taxes. We have debated it and approved it on different occasions in this very House, but with the independence that has already been approved, we find ourselves in a reality in which we have the highest university fees in our circle. And what this supposes..., what supposes that, with unofficial data, about two thousand people are expelled from university, in fact, the enrollment went down to five thousand people, and what supposes reality, that there are those who can't incorporate or there are those who have to leave university for a purely economic issue, because you have fewer resources than other people in our society. Finally, the student movement has ended up varying its centrality of instructions, which, historically, had gone too far from the scholarship, to ask for lower taxes and this is caused by the affect that it has for the student the high level of cost of the taxes that we have today. We will also vote in favour of the scholarship apartment in this young man. And we have to say, yes, that we agree with what they are proposing in terms of finance, to return to 2010, certainly, better than in 2011 but we want to make two small considerations: the first, is insufficient, for our model, still this way, and the second, which is said expressly« 2010 before the policy of retailing and we want to remember that the retailing started that same year 2010 and, if anyone thinks that the university did not affect, that I asked the workers and the workers of the university what happened with the 5_per_cent of their remuneration, that they were expropriated directly for the government of the tripartite. There are two considerations behind it. In agreement with the equal treatment of single-parent families with nomadic families, but we have to have the debate and discussion that you assume does not take into account the economic reality of those nomadic families. And lastly, we can't vote in favour of what the apartment means at point 3, because, look, you who have dealt with the two groups of government is to present a plan to help the universities present their stability plans, that is to say, to present a plan to present a plan...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.139.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.140.0	...if anyone thinks that's how we end up with college job insecurity, then obviously not. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.141.0	...time is running out. Thank you, Congressman. It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Congresswoman Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.142.0	Yeah. Soon. I will not go on to assess whether it is compulsory or not compulsory for advisers to be present, at least, in the area of the motion that is being discussed in the Chamber, but it seemed to me that I understand the Member of Junts per Catalunya that the adviser was not because she is meeting with a company, so I would like to say that, for the adviser, external companies are more important than making the debate in this Parliament. I believe that, perhaps, fewer tables of external parties would have to be invented if the debate where it is to be held, which is in this Chamber, which is where his Government and President Torra are fleeing. [[Widow's remorse.]] Having said that, we shall vote in favour of this motion. Of course, we are concerned and concerned about the debate on university policy, in the dual sense of funding, in which it is... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] I'd ask for silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.143.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.144.0	Thank you. You guys are getting really nervous, huh? , when it is said that they do not want dialogue in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.145.0	Segueixi, please, Miss Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.146.0	Good. In the dual sense of financing, that is, indeed, that this rise in university fees should be reversed so that they can access the university system – if they want it, because it is compatible and should not be the only system of vocational training that should exist in our country – those who want it, but also in that funding, which should not be exclusively public, of universities, that it is good that there is also a private system of aid, of sponsorship, of our university system. But it is also very important not only – not only – that we support and value universities, it is important that the environment around our universities is also promoted by the government and, therefore, we cannot understand that there is a government of the Generalitat that has turned Barcelona into a technological island. The world capital of the telephone congress now becomes the capital from which technological companies are expelled by decisions of the Government of the Generalitat. That realizes that you are in a 1714 mind that you also want to apply to the reality of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.147.0	To pronounce himself, finally, on the exams, has the new word the deputy Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.148.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament. I fully agree with the intervention made by the company Alicia, of the PSC. Sometimes we talk about the university system and the welfare system in a closed way, but I think we should also incorporate elements, especially in housing and social cohesion, territorial and mobility policies, which are important. Company Jorge, we have not agreed on anything, but I do believe that there are elements that we should continue to work more calmly, especially the subject of English. And I'm referring directly to the members of the government, well, of the groups that support the government, because I think there is a discussion that is very repetitive and that prevents us from moving forward in an honest discussion about the role that the public university must have in a welfare state. Mirin, the year 2008, the estate tax recovered to Catalonia more than 1,000_million euros; enguany, less than 500. A grant to the high returns of this country of more than 50_per_cent. If they worry that students of different renders can access the university public system what they have to do is correct it with the public taxation of this country and stop blocking the tax debate in this country, because it is a shame that barriers to university access remain, that have expelled two thousand students, and still unable to touch the tax to ensure fiscal progress in this country. [[Greetings.]] And since we agree with "not a step back, I think we should all agree that not a step back in continuing to expel students from our public universities, in continuing to block the debate on taxation in this country and in repeating, as a mantra, that the policy of scholarships is supplanting the abuse of taxes. Not only is it not supplent and not only insufficient in the current level of taxes, but this is evidence that causes the expulsion of more than two thousand university students. And I think in that, before I make a counteroffer of assumptions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.149.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.150.0	...you should think about it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.151.0	Thank you. We called for a vote. [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]] Yes, a_second, Mr. Pujol. From the interventions, I have deduced that the third point is that it is voted separately, Mr Aragonese, yes? [[Pause.]] Mr. Pujol, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.152.0	For allusions. We understand that the People's Party is very interested...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.153.0	One moment, one moment, one moment. By whom allusions, Mr. Pujol?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.154.0	From the lady Levy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.155.0	Who?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.156.0	To the deputies of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.157.0	No, no, Allusions must be personal, you know perfectly, Mr Pujol. He has not personally praised anyone. No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.158.0	He personally praised me as a member of the Junts Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.159.0	They do not correspond to allusions, in this case. Mr. Pujol, you know. A separate vote was requested on item 3.a. Any more separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.160.0	We would ask for a separate vote from all points, because we had the last, but with the third I think there would be no consensus.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.161.0	But do you ask for points and sub-points? [[Pause.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.162.0	Subpoints.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.163.0	Points and letters, for that matter, huh? Points and sub-points? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. So, let's get to the vote. Vote point by point. Let's start by voting point 1.a. The vote begins. Point 1.a_has been approved by 67 votes to 58 abstentions. Let's just move on to vote point 1.b. The vote begins. The 1.b_point was rejected by 31 votes to 60, with 35 abstentions. Let's just move on to vote on point 1.c. The vote begins. Point 1.c was approved by 67 votes to 59. And now we're going to vote on point 1.d. The vote begins. Point 1.d was approved by 67 votes to 59, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point one. The vote begins. Point 1.e_was approved by 67 votes to 59, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 2. The vote begins. Point 2.a_has been approved by 66 votes in favour, against and 59 abstentions. Let's just move on to vote on point 2.b. The vote begins. The 2.b_point was approved unanimously, i.e., 126 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. Let's just move on to vote number three. The vote begins. Point 3a was approved by 120 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 3.b. The vote begins. Point 3.b is approved unanimously, i.e. 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And finally, we'll vote on point 3.c. The vote begins. Point 3.c has been approved unanimously, which means 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the condemnation of the homophob attack at the LGTBI Centre in Barcelona]] [[401-00009/12]] Before suspending the session this morning, we read the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia condemning the homophobic attack at the LGTBI Centre in Barcelona, which was approved by the Board of Spokespersons. To read it, ask the third secretary to read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.164.0	Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the condemnation of the homophob attack at the LGTBI Centre in Barcelona: "The LGTBI Centre in Barcelona was attacked by a homophobic attack on the night of the 26th genera, a week after it was inaugurated. The attackers smashed glass, wrote hate messages, set up a tank, and drew bewitched symbols. These facts are hard against the principles of Law 11/2014, which aims to develop and guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex – LGBTI – and to avoid them situations of discrimination and violence, to ensure that Catalonia can live sexual and affective diversity in full freedom. The Parliament of Catalonia condemns violence and supports actions taken by the Barcelona Assembly and social organizations before the prosecution to ensure that these acts do not go unpunished. The Parliament of Catalonia defends a different society, which respects the rights and freedoms of everyone in the face of hatred, intolerance and discrimination. The Parliament of Catalonia celebrates the multiplicity and solidarity of the concentration of denunciation of the attack and calls on all Catalan society to protect the sexual and affective diversity of everyone. Palau del Parlament, February 7, 2019. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.165.0	Thank you very much. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.166.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. Ask them to vagrate on their respective scons, please. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the negative attitudes that women's rights pose in peril]] [[Tram. 302-00056/12]] The new item on the agenda is the motion following the question to the Government about the negationist attitudes that pose in peril the rights of women, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mrs Aurora Madaula's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.167.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Councillors, advisors, MPs, MPs, Members of Parliament and guests of Catalonian society.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Welcome to Parliament. The truth is, if you want me to tell you the truth, I'd love to not be here today presenting this motion about the negationist attitudes that pose women's rights in peril. From the Group of Joints for Catalonia, when we presented the question with Mrs Artadi and until today, we have found that the situation in which we live is very difficult. Only in Catalonia have we seen a young Reus murdered in the hands of a man of dynou years; in the group rape of a seven-year-old girl in Sabadell, or in another rape of a seven-year-old girl in Sant Cugat, without forgetting the faixist attack suffered by the LGTBI centre in Barcelona, to which we have referred this morning, or we have also witnessed the installation in public of a sense of the justice of Lleida where the judge sentenced the minimum penalty for a group rape to a girl who was unable to understand that the victim had not resisted there with force. The herd has many forms, and sometimes the herd is the system. We don't want you, we want you alive, we want you free and we don't want you. And now all the indicators show us that we are not free, that we are witnessing a regression of the rights and freedoms of women. In the last question about male-based violence made public by the Government of Catalonia, for example, it is clear that the space of the west is one of the areas where there are more male-based attacks, where women have more often suffered from attacks. For this reason, we celebrate the marching inn of the Security Protocol against sexual rape in the middle of the night that the government presented last week. The other spaces where they are given mascot violence are public transportation or public space in general. The consequence of these perils, of these masculinist threats to women is that 44 percent of the women who have suffered aggression have decided not to go out alone or have to go out alone on the street; some unfortunate consequences and that condition our freedom a little more. But while this situation is not only political, but also political, it is also a question of how to question complaints, how to reduce attacks, how to question laws to protect against male violence. There's who does this, there's who deals with them and goes to arm shows with them, like they'll do City and PP the very same day in Madrid. Because it's clear that women's rights are straight second, they're not important; they're right with those who can market, downgrade – "it wasn't rape, it was abuse; it was just abuse. It's all right if we lower the Law on the Prevention of General Violence or the Law on Non-Discrimination of LGBTI People, it's all right, it's a minor evil, a minor evil to change a good government. So, look, I'll make you the element of what philosopher Hannah Arendt, an expert in the study of the banalization of evil, I'll remind you that who listens to the lesser evil oblivious with great speed that is to be choosing evil. For all these reasons that I have exposed them – and those that I have not been able to expose for a short time – today we present in this Parliament this young man, and a little more, in the band of all the work we do in Parliament and with the intergroup of sexual and reproductive rights that we are part of. With this motion, for example, we urge Parliament to reject any position or political pact with parties that impose the suppression or reduction of measures to protect women's rights, just as we commit ourselves to defending women's movements before the rise of the extreme right. They won't shut us up. We will continue to work and fight for the rights of all. And we'll do it next to the men, because we need them in this fight. Finally I will quote Maria-Mercè Marçal, which I mentioned during the interview, because I said..., there is a quote from Maria-Mercè Marçal of 1995 that spoke in very adjunct terms for the day of today, and said: "In Madrid they do not understand the problem of català the same way that some men do not understand feminist demands; formally they are solved situations but to practice is another story. Good afternoon. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.168.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In order to defend the papers presented, she has the word, first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, the deputy Mrs Beatriz Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.169.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. We are here today to discuss once again one of the issues that most deeply affects the lives of women and girls, and that is the right they have to live in a world free of macho violence. Catalonia has been a pioneer in providing specific legislation to combat gender-based violence, but this Parliament has also recognized in various motions and proposals adopted recently that although we have made progress, there is still a long way to go. From my parliamentary group we share the concern about the progress of political positions that deny women's rights and even the very existence of macho violence and we welcome the enormous coincidence that this motion has in each of its points with the non-legislative proposals that are being adopted these days by various autonomous parliaments on the proposal of the Socialist Party, but we regret that the amendments we tabled were not accepted and that they were aimed at making this Government a commitment in the fight against macho violence in its budgets. We believe that, while declarations of intent are important for advancing and defending women's rights, it is essential that this will be expressed in concrete measures. A few weeks ago, in the Equality Commission, we were able to see the emergency situation in Catalonia with regard to the care services for victims of male violence through three reports commissioned by the Institut Català de les Dones. One of the drafters of these reports expressed concern about the lack of a model for addressing sexual violence in Catalonia; "there is no political agenda on this issue and therefore no effective policy was its concrete words. In October this Parliament adopted a resolution calling on the Government of Catalonia to create the Catalan pact against macho violence within six months. This week the president of the Institut Català de les Dones informed us that this pact was in preparation but was unable to move a calendar or report on the budget for its deployment. We think this is worrying. As is also the case that the current discussion on budgets never talks about the items that will be allocated to policies for women, which have been cut by 31_percent since 2010. In the control session to the Government on 19 December 2018, Ms Artadi pointed out that part of the 17_million_euros that the Government of the State transferred to Catalonia during 2018 for the deployment of the State Pact against Gender Violence would be allocated to the Catalan Pact. From my parliamentary group we believe that the fight against macho violence in Catalonia cannot depend solely on these transfers; we must be able at least to match with our own resources the efforts being made by other administrations, for example, the socialist government of Pedro Sánchez. Our amendments, which have not been accepted, were aimed at translating good words into specific headings. We proposed to increase by 50_per_cent the resources of the councillor of Afers Socials and Families to combat gender-based violence, because last September I was informed in writing that what was planned for all 2018 was 9,750,000_euros, a totally insufficient figure because, according to the own reports of the Institut Català de les Dones, the network of care for victims of sexist violence in Catalonia reaches only 11_per_cent of the women who are estimated to be victims, nine_of_each_ten remains out of any kind of care. In her appearance, the president of the Institut Català de les Dones was unable to tell us what budget she would have in 2019 and what line would be allocated for the Strategic Plan of Equality Policies she came to present, nor what the Government of Catalonia is doing with the more than 17_million_euros that have been transferred for the deployment of the State Pact against Gender Violence. From my parliamentary group we will vote in favour of this motion because we believe that at a time when speeches and formations are emerging that want to cut women's rights we are not in a position to demarcate ourselves, but above all we will vote in favour because this motion is practically a copy of a document that we have drafted from the Socialist Party itself. However, we want to make it clear that women who need housing to stay away from their attacker, who have to wait months to be cared for by a psychologist in Catalonia or who have suffered rape in recent weeks, are useless to them. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] that we declare that we will make a 2030 feminist agenda if we do not put resources to attend to them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.170.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.171.0	Victims of sexist violence and their sons and daughters...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.172.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.173.0	... need solutions, not just words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.174.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mrs Naomi's Member of Parliament now has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.175.0	Good afternoon. The year 2019 has just begun and the data of murders and assaults on women are terrible; the last, sadly murdered at seventeen years. We want to take this opportunity to express our condemnation of the brutal crimes against these women and we want to show our solidarity with the families and relatives of the victims and to know that where Citizens rule, there is not going to be a step backwards in defending their rights. I welcome the fact that a proposal on women's rights comes to Parliament and I will go beyond words and assess what has been done and above all what has not been done, to see if we can resolve it. Look, here's a graph of the evolution of women's policies and the fight against violence in the last decade. The cuts have been continued during the different governments, so nobody is saved here, huh? , they all come out ugly in the photo, and for that reason, they would rip us off the trap of this motion, because it gives the chance that you, then, do not put in writing the scissors that you are going to commit and, at the time of truth, for when you rule, you have a scissors as big as a cathedral. They sit there looking like they haven't broken a plate in life, huh? Madam Madaula, and they give great speeches about women's rights and point out to those who question them, but it is that you are worse than those negationist parties, because they [[remorse of the voice]] You recognize it without complexes and you don't recognize it, no, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.176.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.177.0	...in the hour of truth they execute wild cuts. This is denial of women's rights. They've all cut the tripartit here, too, huh? We have here the Socialist Party, with Esquerra, Initiative, Commons, We can, Convergence with the support of the PP, Convergence with the support of Esquerra and the poti-poti of Junts pel Yes, which also in the budgets of 2016 cut. And it's just that, based on this motion, you guys, you're not gonna be able to make a deal with anyone, not even with yourself, huh? You have to have the asbestos face to present this after your brutal cuts, huh? Less words and more facts. And, look, we are putting forward an amendment to express the rejection of cuts like those you have made during all these years in policies to combat macho violence, and you have not accepted it. And we're not surprised, because you're more interested in talking about sanitary cords. And we sanitary cords apply them to their cuts of policies against violence, and sanitary cords to their complicit silence in the face of some aggressions; complicit silence in the face of aggression against the girls of Barcelona with the Selection, which even their beloved leader Puigdemont said on TV3 that that was an anecdote and that it was not real violence; complicit silence when a few meters from this Parliament assaults a mother in front of their children for removing yellow ties, and some of you even justified it [[remorse of voice and shrouds]] and complicit silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.178.0	Quiet. One moment – one moment –, honourable Member. You seem like a moment. Silence everyone and especially the public. [[Pause.]] I'm still a congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.179.0	Yeah. I hope you'll let me recover the time I've lost. And silence complicit in the assault on the brides of civilian guards in Alsasua simply by exercising their right to choose with whom they wanted to share their lives. And what did you do, besides not condemn it? To broadcast a report on TV3 victimizing the aggressors. Shame on you, shame on you. [[Greetings.]] Does a woman stop being a woman when she carries a Spanish flag? Is violence justifiable when that woman does not have a yellow tie? No, it seems to us that no violence is justifiable and, therefore, from Citizens we condemn and will continue to condemn all assaults suffered by women, and it will be quite a novelty for you to do so too. Facts and not words. Look, reading the title of the motion, I remembered something that happened in my city in the last municipal plenary. In Hospitalet de Llobregat, in a single year, sexual assaults with penetration have increased by 118_per_cent. And do you know what that means? Two rapes a month. And from Citizens we ask for a specific action plan to prevent, detect and eradicate this type of violence in the municipality. And do you know what the lieutenant mayor of the Socialist Party answered? That they would vote against that plan because these crimes only account for 1_per_cent of the total. Is that not negationism? How hypocrisy! I insist, less words and more facts. Because, for us, a single rape is already unacceptable, as it is unacceptable to sit in the seat and have to witness the interventions of Mr Salvadó, Member of the Left, who wanted to choose the counselors by the size of his breasts, eh? [[Greetings.]] Because her only presence in this Chamber denigrates us all as women. I have to admit that it has been a pleasant surprise to criticize in his motion the rise of the extreme right and the fundamentalist movements, because many of us are concerned about his flirtations with the Flemish far right, with the True Finns or with the Greek neo-Nazis of Golden Dawn. So, well, between surprised and glad that you're going to vote for all this, that's right, I hope it doesn't stay in words, as you already have us used to and translate into facts. And I hope that you will take advantage of the turnarounds to condemn all those violence that you have never condemned. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.180.0	On behalf of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.181.0	Yeah. Good afternoon. Thank you very much. I had a prepared intervention that was also beginning to list the cases of aggression that we have seen later, the social alarm that causes all this, and, when I heard the other Members who spoke before me, I thought: "Look, almost everyone starts with the same; that's what I'm going to be relieved of. It's good that I'm gone because then I'm going to have to add some things, because it's because, Mrs. De la Calle, it's hard for you to be in the party you're in, that you're making a deal with Vox in Andalusia. [[Greetings.]] It's the worst thing I've ever seen! Oh, come on, I can feel it. [[Pause.]] No, no – no, no. Now, I'm the one who needs to talk. If I already understand, that you must speak with this anger and with this resentment and say everything that others have stopped doing, because we have already said to them: it is that you have never been able to do it again, nor will you ever be able to do it again, because you will never rule in Catalonia, ever, because you will continue alone and follow alone. [[Greetings.]] No, no, You're the ones who denied the March 8 feminist vagueness that it was an ideological vagueness. Of course it was ideological! – obviously it was ideological! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[applause]] Because it was a space that defended women's rights. No, I don't think I'm going to put it down because you sure as hell didn't feel like he was talking. Now, he's got a young woman who shouldn't be able to share most of the people that we're here, the general sense has become a school floor. And it's absolutely sad and denigrating. We're in a heteropatriarchal system. What's happening to us isn't done. And now I'm going to quote some of the statements from you and the People's Party. Mr. Casado, speaking of the ideology of genere, buying the terminology of Hazte Oír. The Senator of the People's Party, Esther Muñoz, refused the idea of the necessary consent: she did not say « yes, « yes, « yes, yes, no; with a yes there was no proof. And that's what happened to Lleida, which you mentioned. We can also talk about the confusion that you have as you went, and I don't know which spaces you speak; the spokesman of Extremadura: "Neither sexism nor feminism, equality. Ole, you! - Smell it, you! - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, [[Widow's remorse.]] Last year they said this, that they didn't add up because it was ideological. And a few days ago we saw how his own party, Ciutadans, took a step back to València against the Covenant against General Violence. And they don't know what's going to happen in Andalusia, yet they don't know what's going to happen. We don't know how many of your words, Mrs De la Calle, will have to go through this very Ple, but we'll wait – we'll wait. It's that it tastes very hard; it tastes very hard that on a subject like this it doesn't... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, I'm not talking about this. I don't care what I say. I wasn't in the tripartite... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.182.0	Quiet! - Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.183.0	I wasn't in the tripartite. I don't have a problem. I wasn't in the tripartite. I lived in Ecuador, when the tripartite. I don't even have to explain this. I mean, it's no big deal. [[Greetings.]] But, to the band – to the band – I will certainly ask the groups of the Government, obviously, in what we pass – and I do say that I do indeed – of the words to the facts and we have resources; that we cannot talk about attacks on women and continue to keep the concerts to the schools that secrete by sex; that the Catalan Institute of Donations must be endowed with resources, to double the resources that the Catalan Institute of Donations has, and to ensure that all the women of the territory of Catalonia have equal access to the service of fighting against male violence, and that today does not happen. So I'm asking them to go from words to girls and present some decent assumptions on this subject. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.184.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the Lady Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.185.0	Good afternoon. Mrs Noemí, I'm sure you're right. Thank you, Susanna. Patriarchal impunity, has gone into the different interventions. Given this reality, this impunity and the institutional violence that we suffer from women, from the rapes that we suffer from women, from the patriarchal fascism of Vox and from all of his associates, who intend to steal from us the rights that we have won thanks to the feminist struggle to preserve their privileges, we can only stand up and tell them clearly that no step is needed. Tanmateix, we will focus our intervention on a specific issue, in the fifth point, in the recommendation of the European Union not to make ideological approaches to policies in a gender perspective. First, because we... And we will not support this point, for a specific reason, because we believe that it is highly contradictory to give credibility to the recommendations of an institution that reproduces the patriarchal structure that oppresses the gifts of an institutional perspective and also materially with the austerity policies that have suffocated us primarily to the women. How can we talk about public policies of gender without ideology if the wage choice makes women, only because they are women, we cover less, if half of the women of the principality are at the mercy of the poor, if in the Spanish State 72 per cent of part-time contracts are in the hands of women, if retired women cover 40 per cent less than men? Lacks of sanitation, education, dependence and assistance to vulnerability in violence are being transferred to women all these tasks that the Public Administration ceases to assume; public policies with ideology, neoliberal ideology. Therefore, the answer must also be ideological, from class feminism, that is, a feminism aimed at conquering material conditions of life worthy of the combination of women. It's from this analysis that we're betting for the socialization of healing tasks. If the causes of oppression to women are ideological, how do we pose a non-ideological response? I'm done. And today we are talking about denialism before the abuses and patriarchal violence, when we are talking about denialism, we are not just talking about Vox, the ultra-right and his associates, but about all the entremat that sustains them, like the hierarchy of Catholic Church. Memory, justice and reparation for those who have lived in their own for the darkest face of an institution that has long since enjoyed impunity, or, better said, an institution that has often not only condemned women not to decide about our bodies or to the invisibility and ostracism of LGBT people, but also to intervene in something [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] too much concern in the human and social development of our children.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.186.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.187.0	I'm done. Mr. archebisbe of Tarragona, the banalization of sexual abuse to fastic minors. Sir archebisbe of Tarragona...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.188.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.189.0	...you wander 'in your hell. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.190.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, has the word "Mrs. Esperanza García".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.191.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... look, the truth is that this motion speaks of negationism, but it gives me the impression that it is written from the classic negativeist behavior, the one that accuses others of their own mistakes. And why do I say that? Well, clearly, I say that for objective reasons. First of all, this motion is presented precisely by a group that supports a government – and I'm sorry, Alba, a lot – that says and boasts of selecting its advisors by the size of their breasts. This motion is presented precisely by a party that is part of this government that has not found a single gap in its entire agenda of yellow acts to renew the Security and Care Plan for victims of male and domestic violence from 2019 to 2021. I mean, we've got the one from 2018. Therefore, neither early care nor follow-up on complaints nor follow-up on complaints. It is precisely this Government, which has given it exactly the same as Catalonia is the first autonomous community where more are denied protection orders, even reaching, in some areas, up to 70_per_cent, which has done absolutely nothing to try to improve this situation. It is precisely this government that when asked in 2015: « Listen, attention – at that time it was Mr Jané, the Councillor of Interior – « What is happening? Complaints of sexual assault are increasing alarmingly, do something.What measures are you going to take on the issue of education and prevention so that that does not happen? And you know what Mr. Jané answered? that women had less tolerance for abuse and that there were more complaints. It's this government. It is this Government that has used TV3 to trivialize violence against women by placing Catalonia as an ill-treated woman with regard to the Spanish Government's action with regard to the separatist challenge, which gives us lessons on machismo and negacionismo. Look, you often accuse others of wanting to go back to past times, but you practice it right now in the present. To begin with, even in the motion, they have not yet been able to accept that the debate on gender-based violence and domestic violence has been more than over for fourteen or fifteen years. [[Widow's remorse.]] Look, victims of macho violence – victims of macho violence – do not understand either political opportunisms, which is the reason for this motion, or political acronyms. Look, I'm going to remind you one thing: it's precisely the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.192.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.193.0	...who under his command makes the first...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.194.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.195.0	...state law, a state pact against gender-based violence. And do you know what your representative said on that committee? « I remind you that the competitions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.196.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.197.0	... in this matter are exclusive in Catalonia. Let's get to work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.198.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jenn Díaz has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.199.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs, companies, entities, well, today I could make an intervention like anyone else, ask parliamentary groups that if you please – please – do not whitewash the negationist speech of some political parties. I could contrast the false data one by one to dismount them, but I thought before the fallacy the only thing we have to do is put a look in the front. We don't have enough women, we're angry, and we're not. It is normal that we often claim revenge and justice, because justice also denies, guilt, questioning and stigmatization. I want to take advantage of my minutes. I'll just talk about what happens to women because they're women. I'll start. « Hello. My name is Cristina Fallarás and I was raped too. # Count it. # MeToo. # Down and down. Casio i Bic, companies that make specific pink products for working women. No, we don't accept the apology. Lleida's hearing sentenced a rapist to two years in prison, because the victim, disabled, did not resist enough. The one who took pictures, absolved. « Rubén Castro, it wasn't your fault. She was a whore. You did good. Benito Villamarín, football camp of Real Betis. Kelly, said years, Reus, murdered on the 31st generation of 2019, beheaded. Arizona, a woman in a coma is pregnant. Her infirmary raped her, despite the headlines telling us that she got pregnant. "Young women look like young women and this is an irrefutable argument. And if they're pretty and they do die, let's not say, which doesn't take away that having a woman of the hills isn't also very rejuvenating, Joaquin Luna. « They try to cremate a girl alive for having denounced her aunt's violations. « Night patrol ride with the bike. A prostitute ran off. I went after her. Kneeled. He put money on the floor and raised his arms. I took off my helmet and saw that I was a woman. She breathed relieved. I knew he was running away from one of us, Sonia Vivas. "You don't have to roll in the exam, we can roll in later, university professors of València. "They say that in Spain a king/ of inconstant appetites/ whose whim was law/ sent his lovers/ to be of a grey convent. / Today the times have changed/ and the beloved thymoral/ as soon as he has left them/ do not go to a cruel convent/ but to a high seat. / Congresswoman Montero / former member of the collection is no longer in the candlestick/ for a restless trouser/ goes with Tania to the henman. From nuns to deputies, « poem of a jutge to Irene Montero. "The trainings always ended up at her house, the ugly stripping, completely naked on the earth, and every time she made a hypopressive abdominal touch her as she talked to her about technical details. Vaginal touching. Up to two seconds press her sex organ while she was pushing. And he never stops the indications, speaking with maximum naturality. Leo Armentano, abuser. « Laura Luelmo's body has self-defense wounds to the head and neck. Laura Luelmo resisted, and now she's dead. "Let no one be surprised or call me rude for calling the runaway independentist Anna Gabriel a whore. Anna Gabriel fled, the sex symbol of independence, The Tribune of Cartagena. " Do we apply 155 or 69 here? , Pipi Estrada, on a photo of Inés Arrimadas. « Weak sex: women's group, Real Academia Española. « Strong sex: set of men, Real Academia Española. One thing is clear: male violence has no class, no ideology, no office, no profile, no nationality, no status, no language. And the women, as I said, we are tired, we are angry, we are not making you, but we have a weapon, the witnesses, a weapon that makes us stronger, that helps us to make ourselves visible, to lift our eyes and to hold one of our own. Now the story will also explain it to us. And precisely because the witness is our weapon, today I want to follow the example of the company you will fail, and I will end as I started, my own # Count it, to break so much silence. [[The congresswoman's getting excited.]] Hi, I'm Jenn Diaz, and years ago I suffered male, physical and psychological rape, but I don't explain it here in your parliament with the victim, but with survival. Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.200.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the word MP Aurora Madaula. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.201.0	Thank you, President. It's very difficult to intervene now. Jenn, you have all my support. [[The congresswoman's getting excited. Greetings.]] Well, it's very difficult, above all the reaction of some Members and Members, who have not changed. But well, by positioning the exams, therefore, I regret that we could not approve, accept any of the exams; one, that of the PSC. Anyway, I appreciate the interest and interest in negotiating and working folds on this motion and on this subject. The PSC's is talking about assumptions and terms and I've already explained to them that there was a motion, Motion 82/XI, that already established a term and that the pact that was reached in this Parliament will take effect from May, and that is why we can't accept its slogan. To tell Mrs Silva that the state pact she unfortunately spoke of was approved under the Government of 155 and, therefore, the Government of Catalonia could not sign it. And, well, with the usual I think we'll find each other. Let's talk about the assumptions, obviously. I think we have common goals. At the CUP..., we share the idea of the European Union; we do not like this European Union, but we have to work to change it. And to Citizens and the PP, I'll tell you, we condemn all attacks, all attacks. Do you condemn the attacks of October 1st? Do they sentence them? No, hello? So don't give us lessons. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah. And when they refer to people who I think are unfairly engaged, they remember that they have unfairly engaged companies that cannot come to this Parliament and that are at the door of an unjust trial, like the boys of Altsasu, that from here I claim: Altsasukoak Aske, etxera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.202.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.203.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.204.0	We called for a vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.205.0	Yes, from point 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.206.0	Thank you. Vote, so... [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Sánchez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.207.0	To request separate vote from point 5, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.208.0	Five? - He's forgiven.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.209.0	Yeah, is that 5? Yeah. [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.210.0	Yes, Mr. Pujol, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.211.0	Ask for a separate reading of point 2, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.212.0	Or is it, that it is votes separately and that it is read before the vote? [[Pause.]] Yeah? Okay. So, we'll vote first, first place, this point 2. We shall then vote on point 5, which has also been asked to be voted on separately. And after the rest of the young man. I'll ask Secretary Pérez to read point 2, which is what we'll vote on next. When you're ready, secretaries.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.213.0	That's point two, huh? , within the motius exposition. It is the motion following the question about the negationist attitudes that pose in danger the rights of women, and asks, in its point number 2: "To reject the adoption of any type of agreement explicit or implied with political formations that pose the suppression or reduction of these measures.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.214.0	Thank you, secretaries. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously, which means 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the fifth point of the vote. The vote begins. The fifth point of the motion was approved by 124 votes to 4, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 128 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the separatist process and its consequences for all Catalans]] [[302-00057/12]] Let's move on to the 20th point of the order of the day... [[Greetings.]] Let us now turn to the twenty-first item of the order of the day, which is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the separatist process and its consequences for all Catalans, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.215.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are tabling a motion consisting of six points. It's seven, sorry. Six points. They're very simple, all of them. Look, the first of them speaks of equality before the law of all citizens, and notes something that is a fact, that it is up to the judges and courts to judge and enforce the court, and that it is a democratic duty of all to abide by the judgments when they are handed down. Let's see what they vote on, on this, some groups in the chamber. Something that is so obvious and that is a principle of any Western democracy. To see if you, that, which is provided for in precepts, therefore, international, of international law, of human rights, you, this vote it or do not vote it, in Catalonia, today. Second point: the Government is censored to try to achieve impunity, influencing a trial that will begin, discrediting not only the judges and courts of Spain, but the state security forces and bodies, and therefore they invite not to abide by the sentences. That is what we are voting for today: discrediting this anti-democratic maneuver, that it is intended to obtain impunity through the discrediting – worth redundancy – of our system of democratic law. Third: we warn that the process has its continuity in the current government, which makes a partisan use of the Administration, which makes a partisan use of public money, which makes a partisan use of the media, which encourages public unrest, insults, which does not condemn violence. Fourthly, we denounce the consequences of the separatist strategy in terms of social fracture, the degradation of institutions, and the flight of businesses that has caused legal uncertainty in the process. Fifthly, we denounce that the separatist project promoted by those who are going to be judged has perverted the nature of the institutions, since it has managed to turn the Generalitat into consolidating the anti-democratic option of breaking our Constitution and our Statute of autonomy, in order to obtain the unilateral secession of Catalonia. And to that the institutions apply, regardless of their duty of neutrality and objectivity and public service to all Catalans, because, obviously, it has been a consequence of the process that initiated those people who will be judged in the coming weeks. The sixth point rejects the content of the illegal laws of 6 and 7 September, for one reason, which is "confessed, so to speak, by its authors, that it was sought to obtain false legal coverage in order to obtain the separation of Catalonia from the rest of Spain". The role played by this Parliament, which is intended to continue to play, is merely to cover a political project that would be declared illegal in any country in the world, such as the unilateral secession of any of its territories, of the territories of a country, and to change the passport to the citizens who are living in that part of the territory, who, by the way, are the majority who do not want to change their passport, you, those who are pretending to trample the rights of all. And then, because those laws, we censor those laws – « laws in quotes – of the 6th and 7th days, because they were drawn up with bankruptcy of all the procedures that give validity to any legal norm. And then something else, very important, and that we cannot conceal, and that we never have to hide, because, after all, what you wanted to establish with that law that you called disconnection and foundation of the new republic, was to establish an authoritarian, ultra-nationalist, populist, anti-Spanish, anti-European regime and with violation of the public rights and freedoms of all Catalans, with a government that did not answer to anything or anyone, according to its own law of disconnection. Finally, in the seventh point, we urge the independence parties to defend their postulates within the legal order. Look at what a revolutionary: we tell you that you have the right to defend...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.216.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.217.0	...whatever you want, but, check it out: within the law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.218.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.219.0	And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.220.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, and to defend the papers presented, it is the return of Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.221.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group proposes this motion following the inquiry to the Government on the separatist process and its consequences for all Catalans, in which there is a bar of description of facts, which we can share, and at these points, even though we do not share the literality with which they are written, so we can vote in favour, points 1, 6 and 7. And other than what they're trying to do is set up a relationship that we can't share. Because, despite the fact that in the bar of the report that they intend to do there have actually happened and there are intentions that we can actually guess, there is also the intention of building a political report that is aimed at saying that at the moment the intention of the Government of the Generality is maintained to proceed in the same way that in the previous legislature, and that, moreover, there is a permissiveness, complicit, humiliating, traitorous, high treasonous, of the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez, which does not act before that. Give this, you, more credibility to the statements of some... – of some, why not all – of the leaders of current political independence, than some of your minority parliamentary partners, huh? It is curious, if not more, that those who make the task of monitoring that they are keeping their homes in order to obtain secession unilaterally have many doubts about the fact that this is the true intention of the current Government of the Generality and the majority of the Parliament that supports it, and you give it all credibility. Obviously, at the convenience of a report where the patients are all the others, all the others are traitors to their country. And it's funny that you advertise it often, nationalism in the eyes of others and are unable to appreciate what they have in the proper way. Because, you denounce the assumption of the mind marks of nationalism, because someone is told that there can be a speaker in some meetings between political parties, and in change you... it is that you fully assume the whole mind mark of nationalism, but everything! I can only feel the flaming, arsonist, pyromaniac rhetoric that you and your members of the People's Party and Vox have been spending in the last few hours. It's the whole mind mark, absolutely everything. They only change the reference identity and the country they want to save. And, look, I'll tell you one thing – look, I usually know some pretty moderate forms – but we're not enough to save you; we're full of lifeguards and patriots. We're not done – we're done. [[Greetings.]] We're dealing with lifeguards. Normally, the savers trinxen, the fathers. History is full of examples. And you're doing the same thing, and because it's clear that you're demonstrating against nationalism and populism, you're calling for reactionary national populist demonstrations before the Columbus flag, huh? Because it's clear that this isn't nationalism... [[applause]] , you will make patriotic demonstrations for high treason of the socialist government of Pedro Sánchez. Clearly, it's very logical, all that, because you pretend to be solving a political conflict of the highest order, which is in the first place between Catalans, but it is, too, from the Spanish side, without dialogue. I... let someone down and explain to me how this is resolved without dialogue with those who think differently and without making a single proposal. Because, look, there are political traditions with which I share relatively few things, but which have been fruitful with ideas and proposals. Which I may not share, but they have been fruitful. The political movement that you have represented in Catalonia and that was presented as the center-left regenerater, and that has trigat much in, let's say, unravel like something very different, is one of the most stellar political traditions I have ever known in the political history of the country: not one single proposal. What common project for Spain, attracted to the conjunction of Catalans have you placed on the table? What you claim is to ignore that there are two million people who have been supporting an independent political project over the past few years, with many differences, strategic differences and so on, and hammering, huh? Hammer the cylinder, see if it enters through a square orifice. No, this isn't a political project. This does not respond to any serious and realistic analysis of how to transform our social and political reality and how to foster a _framework of coexistence. You're opportunists. You are electoralists, and you are so much more nationalists than those to whom you criticize. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.222.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to fix his position, he has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.223.0	Thank you, President. We have differences of substance with the proposal that the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group brings to us today, and I will explain them very briefly. The first is because we are convinced that laws cannot only change, but must change. And it's easier to change laws than to change people. And a town doesn't have to adapt, Mr. Carrizosa, to a law if in a majority way it wants to change it. For us this is an essential factor in democracy that we have not found in its proposal. To say that it is true, we are experiencing a crisis of democracy a long time ago. Some speak of more than one year. And this crisis of democracy, in some parts of the world, has given little to worrying phenomena, but not to Catalonia, Mr Carrizosa. In Catalonia, it generated the appearance of the 15-M and also generated the sovereignist process. And by paraphrasing company Xavi Domènech, we are proud to be the land of 15-M and '1 October, and that's why we see the bottle half full. This crisis of democracy, we see it as an opportunity, as an opportunity for men and women to say what they want to be. And, obviously, it causes problems, and it causes contradictions, let us not deny them. We are also concerned about some of these contradictions, and we think we have to manage them inclusively. But in this proposal they are not – they are not –; this look is not, this inclusive look. Look, we could match you, maybe we could match the reviews in terms of content and shape, both in terms of how and to what it was on September 6 and 7, 2017. Critics of the Law of Referendum and the Law of Political Transition, but never – ever – will find us criminalizing the people who defended these laws. They'll never find us criminalizing these people. These laws are reprehensible, but they are not punishable. One thing is political criticism and the other thing is to try to engage my political opponents, which is, Mr Carrizosa, the one behind the proposal that you bring us today to vote on. Therefore, the questions we want to ask are: are they prepared to resist the contradictions that democracy provokes? Many think that democracy has no other solution than more democracy. They have gone, like Vox, that they do not think so; they think that the problems of democracy must be solved with authoritarianism, and you, little by little, are every time more close to these precepts, which I can assure you does not cause me any satisfaction. Only the policy dialog will bring solutions. Capturing into bureaucratic readings of the existing legal framework will simply widen the conflict. And you – I also have to say with regret – in the conflict I see them absolutely comfortable. That is why we cannot vote on the points of your motion for a resolution. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.224.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.225.0	Beyond the formal establishment of laws, the application of the judiciary has a completely different treatment, depending on the class, gender, origin or political practice. Citizen manifests the government's intentions or supposed intentions to achieve impunity for political prisoners, and this manifests at a time when some of these take more than a year to prison without justice, yet without justice, and of other, obviously, a few months, unfortunately, badly. Yes, you want to know, the lords and lords of Citizens, who is unpunished? So it's their head of state, because that's how the Constitution establishes it. You are inviolable and not subject to liability. They say, Citizens, that the current Government of the Generalitat is a continuation of a project of unilateral secession. So look, we have to set the first example, in the past year, that there has been any practice of disobedience on the part of this government, because this group has absolutely denounced the contrary. They also say from the citizens and you say that there has been a flight – and they say so –" of five thousand companies, with the consequent flight of employment. First, we tell them not to recover the speech from the confusion. You know perfectly well that one thing is the change of a company's social home and another thing is the closure of a company because the occupation is going somewhere else; you know perfectly well. But they also have data on how there have not been five thousand companies that have changed their social home; a few hundred have been the most. And then, if one day you want to know what exactly is the xifra that from '1 October to July 2018 there were workers and workers who have seen how they have changed their working centres in Catalonia outside Catalonia, there are 189 workers and workers, certainly for productive and organizational reasons, because of the origin of the liberation process of this village. It also expresses the reason that Catalonia claims to be an authoritarian and ultranationalist regime. This is what one party said that in the European elections of 2009 it was running with one candidacy, Libertas, where there were authoritarian and extreme right-wing organizations, as well as ultra-nationalists; that in the municipal elections of 2015 it had more than fourteen candidates than before they were members of the extreme right and that today it governs Andalusia thanks to the authoritarians and ultra-nationalists of Vox. And, lastly, Citizens tell us: "Parties claiming independence must defend their postulates within the legal order. It's possible...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.226.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.227.0	... defend the right of self-determination or a reference of self-determination in the Spanish legal order? The answer, of course, is 'no'.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.228.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.229.0	But we tell them what we did, we'll do it and we'll do it again. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.230.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of the deputy Alejandro Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.231.0	Yes, thank you, President. From the escó. We will gather this young man, but I would like to share some thoughts around what Mr Pedret has raised, because I understand that he has been interesting. You are right only at the beginning of your intervention, Mr Pedret, when you say that a nationalism will never be able to fight from another nationalism will, that is to say, from another identity will be able to fight from those who claim, for example, that a person cannot stand for some election because it is a gavatxo, so we understand each other. This is happening here, at our house, but it also goes to other places. Now, with which neither, Mr. Pedret, can ever fight an outcast nationalism is accepting the rules of the game of outload nationalism. You long ago, in Zapatero's time, flirt with the idea of seducing these parliamentary groups, their parties, with the idea that Catalonia is a friendly political subject, when they know it isn't, but it's the way to try to lead to a sense of consensus. Then he sees the frustration. This was done by Zapatero, when he moved to "I will accept the State that comes from the Parliament of Catalonia. Then came the reality, and that was not exactly the same. The problem is that now the experiment is much more complex and much harder, because you are not accepting what comes out of a parliament: you are accepting what comes out of Waterloo, which are radically different things – radically different. And this will end up generating – and I'm saying it with the same serene and moderation that you claim from your interventions – a frustration even greater than the one that fell after that unfortunate, statutory debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.232.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.233.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, still with the head and full color of Jenn Díaz's words; because this also went straight, like those she defended, like those she lived here, live, before all of us. Look, gentlemen of Citizens, you've seen a little more show off your fundraiser, huh? You're the no party, you're the anti-dialogue party, you're the pro-confrontation party. They do, they practice it, they show it day, day too. Yesterday, yesterday, tomorrow, they showed us and they show us various ways, huh? They have just called a demonstration – to the Spanish cities, naturally – against the dialect. That is to say, you are manifest against the understanding, against any possibility of democratic solution, against any possibility that someone is seeking lines of settlement and political agreement. They're the party against the democratic dialog, huh? They're the party of the authority, of the imposition... they're the party of the senator, too, a member of the ultrathreat, huh? , for the first time in the democratic history of the last years in our State ; it is you who name it, who vote it, who decide to give entry to our institutions which in this motion seem to denounce: authoritarianism, xenophobia, racism, invasion of all civil and democratic rights. It seems to me that, in other words, that it is quite clear what this young man has been doing, that once again what he does is to reduce political discrepancy to a question of legality, justice and criminal prosecution. I mean, I'd say that somehow it's almost an absolute denial of legislative power as a power, say, defining what a democratic system is supposed to be, huh? In his conception, I suppose, there is an execution, as strong and authoritarian as possible, and there is a judiciary. The rest, the democratic will expressed through a chamber that expresses popular sovereignty, as this, for you does not matter. It mentions the rights, Article 7 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 14th of the Convention on Human Rights, the 20th of the Charter of Fundamental Rights... Finally, I believe that when you say that the feelings must be respected, for example, with the interpretation that makes of these articles, it is hardly altering the deep feeling of these articles. The deure de tot democrat is not to abide by the judgments handed down by the judges and the courts to resolve them. The right to all democracy is to exercise its right of defence before possible arbitrariness of the State's established power, and also of any arbitrariness of the judiciary. That phrase you're talking about is a Putin phrase, an Erdoğan phrase, huh? It should not be a Catalan or Spanish phrase, if we actually pretend to be talking about an advanced democratic system, as they all assume. You apply your conception: it's rule by law, huh? The law to the government's service, not the rule of law, is to say, the citizens and their rights to power, in defense of civil and political rights. And it seems to me that this is the line, the deep reading of what you expressed to us. You, in conclusion, say to us, mention the International Covenant on Civil Rights, approved for the United Nations on 66 and ratified for the Spanish State on 77, which says: "All peoples have right to the car... but I remind you what Article 1 of this pact says: "All peoples have right to self-determination, which is what you are telling me, huh? "By virtue of this right, they freely determine their political status and also seek for their economic, social and cultural development. Look, I'll tell you what they're doing. You have – and today you fully express it – a historical responsibility: you are the Trojan horse of the extreme right to our country, to Catalonia and to the whole of the State. You're the Trojan horse of this extreme right. You are actively collaborating on this extreme right to take possession. And when we kick her here, you'll be the first to regret it; I assure you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.234.0	Congressman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.235.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.236.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]] It is now the return, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, of Congresswoman Anna Tarrés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.237.0	Good afternoon, President. Members, we find ourselves in front of a young man we are talking about « serious crimes, « acquit, « censor, « revolt, « riots, « slavery, « collision, « social fracture, « fracture of the constitutional order, « fear, « coercion, « illegality, « breakdown. I will pay attention to point 6.c: "To demand the existence in Catalonia of an authoritarian regime of ultra-nationalist, populist and anti-Spanish, anti-European, with violation of the fundamental rights and public freedoms of the majority of Catalans. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Deputies and deputies of Ciutadans, what a great art they have to distort reality. Let me quote Ovidi: "I will sing real songs, even though there will be who says I invented them. Let's get into the story, big deal. We wanted a better statue and they fell on us. We wanted a better tax pact and they denied it. We wanted a reference and they got us. And what does the people of Catalonia do? He doesn't shut up, and he fights for his rights, and he denounces the irregularities of a state that has scanned us for the neck. And with the fight? With the ongoing citizen mobilizations every September 11th, which will donate step on November 9, 2014, in which more than 2,300,000 citizens voted on the future politics of Catalonia. It may be recalled that since 2005 references are not criminal, but it seems that you are above the law. From this moment on we find the thread of history: repression. The year 2015 the State began to use the criminal route to pursue 9-N drivers, but Catalonia and its representatives did not shut up. 6 and 7 September: the Law of Reference and the Law of Transition are adopted. Let's remind him that the Rules are applied scrupulously. And I can hear that you don't like the result, but we're here to create new laws that respond to citizens' demands. 20 September 2017: the Civil Guard makes forty-one registers to its differences from the Generality. Citizens and citizens – among them I – go out to the street peacefully to reject police action. First acrobacy: fourteen people detained. Second acrobatic: petition for sedition to the Jordis. October 1, despite all the efforts of the State, more than 2,260,000 Catalans are voting, and 2,000,044 are voting in favour of the yes. And the state's answer, stop him fucking. Third acrobatic: a thousand wounded and a lost eye. Miri, Mr Carrizosa, if Catalonia is such an authoritarian regime and Spain is as attractive as the product, why do they have so much to let us vote for? Seven of October, fourth acrobatic: the Jordi are engaged. Today, 7th of February, 478 days ago, they are in prison without judgment and with a totally excessive prevention. What responsibility do they have that I lower to manifest me? Look, you're gonna say there was a rape. But I was there, and of violence, nothing. October 20th: Parliament votes on the declaration of independence by an absolute majority. There is no uprising or violence, the only one on the street was the hope of a more free country. End of October: start of the prison and exile of the entire legitimate government. And look, Mr Carrizosa, at us in the title of anti-Europeans? To us? It has not yet been agreed that President Puigdemont embodies the best of European principles: freedom and democracy? That's why he's a free man across Europe, except for Spain. Year 2018: Spain celebrates the seventy years of declaration of human rights with prisoners and political exiles. History development: we are at 2019 and the trial begins. We arrive at the paroxysm of repression. [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] Do they sound like this picture? In which democracy is it allowed the transfer of citizens presumably – yes, I repeat it, presumably – guilty of a crime that they have not committed? Is it necessary to drag them in? Should I requisition all the dark colored items they carry? In front of all these elements, I have a possible title for my own choreography: "How to apply repression to a people seeking freedom. And the most adient music: "To them, to them, to them, I heard, to them. For all these reasons, we will vote against the points of the motion. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.238.0	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Tarrés. To pronounce now, finally, on the exams, has the new word the deputy Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.239.0	Thank you, Mr. President. We have seven amendments to this seven-point motion, and all seven are from the Socialist Party of Catalonia. It is regrettable that all the manoeuvres that you have had to do in this House, all the amendments that you have had to propose, to clear and empty what all the Spaniards know is going on here. [[remorse of the voice]] , which is that there is a continuing government of the coup to democracy, and you are pacting with them, under rope, twenty-one shameful and humiliating points for all and a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.240.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.241.0	That's what you're trying to do. And, then, they have had to decafeinate points that separatists themselves recognize – that separatists themselves recognize – as they wanted to give legal cover to the coup from this Parliament. And you have to look for subterfuges in order not to vote, so that you do not see in this Parliament what your degree of complicity is with these gentlemen who are doing nothing else but trying to abolish freedoms in Catalonia. They continue to decafeinate the reality of things, to continue to render judgment before trial, to say some of their leaders that there is no rebellion, or to propose pardons, or, to conceal the twenty-one shameful commandments of Torna's independence, or to continue like this – continue, continue like this – until irrelevance. Look, separatists have a plan. And they've had a plan for a very long time. And you're thinking about the next quarter of an hour of your government. You are willing to make all the concessions, all those necessary, to follow another week in La Moncloa with Mr Pedro Sánchez at the front. [[Widow's remorse.]] And that's the shame of this plenary...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.242.0	Order!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.243.0	...that constitutionalism cannot be united because of its political interests, socialist gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.244.0	There's some... Mr. Pedret, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.245.0	For two questions. The first, ask for separate votes from points 1, 6 and 7, which can go together. And second, by allusions, both of Mr. Fernández and of Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.246.0	For allusions during the debate?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.247.0	Yes, yes, indeed. They have alluded very directly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.248.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.249.0	Fool...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.250.0	All right. No, no, if...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.251.0	I don't think I'm particularly suspicious, do I?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.252.0	Mr. Pedret, I haven't resolved your petition, so you'll be fine. Are there any more petitions, then, for a separate vote? [[Pause.]] Any more groups want to ask for separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Therefore, I can proceed with the two questions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.253.0	Thank you. I try to be as schematic as possible. Mr Fernández, I would like to thank you for all this, but I must say that there is nothing further removed from the conceptual and ideological framework of nationalism than federal theory and practice, of which we feel heresy and practical. On the other hand, I don't think this can exactly preach the ideological model of the People's Party. And, therefore, I think you have elements here too to reflect. With regard to what Mr Carrizosa was giving us, I could almost sum it up by saying what we were demonstrating, because it is that his intervention has come to ratify, for one thing, that he told him that you operate with the same mental mark of nationalism, only changing the birth and identity of reference. We have always criticized Catalan nationalism for its ability...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.254.0	Mr. Pedret...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.255.0	...to centrifuge anyone who doesn't have his vision of Catalonia and Catalan society as authentic Catalan, as authentic patriot, and you have just done the same with us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.256.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.257.0	Yes, for Mr. Pedret's allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.258.0	I'm sorry, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.259.0	For the allusions that Mr Pedret has just made to me. ( Ferran Pedret and Santos make gestures of disapproval.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.260.0	Allusions are right to reply, Mr. Pedret, yes. So, quickly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.261.0	The answer, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.262.0	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.263.0	Yeah, well... [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] Thanks, I couldn't believe it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]] Thank you. Mr Pedret, look, the reality is that you are leaving the constitutionalists and Democrats alone in Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] And they leave them alone here and in the Government of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.264.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.265.0	That's the raw reality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.266.0	Mr Pedret, Mr Pedret, had I not erred in asking for the word for allusions and for separate votes. The next thing you know, he wouldn't say it, would he? Or, yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me. Which points did you ask for? So no, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.267.0	Mr. President, you gave him points 1, 6 and 7 that can be voted all together unthankfully. And I don't take advantage of it for... but it would be hot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.268.0	No, not really, because I'd cut his mic. Any more separate voting petitions? I remind you that you have asked for 1, 6 and 7 and that you can vote in bloc. Yes; so, we vote first 1, 6 and 7 and then we vote on the rest of the motion. We start by voting points 1, 6 and 7. The vote begins. These three points, 1, 6 and 7, were rejected by 55 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. We are voting now, so the rest of the House. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 39 votes in favour, 73 against and 16 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into citizen security]] [[302-00058/12]] Let's move on to the next item, the next item on the order of the day, which is the twenty-first and refers to the next item on the question to the government about citizen security, presented... [[Widow's remorse.]] They ask if they have to get out of the hemicicle that they do quickly and quietly, please. [[Pause.]] Thank you. The motion is presented for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, to expose it has the word of the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.269.0	Well, thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, very good afternoons to everyone. In the past plenary we had the opportunity to discuss with the Councillor of the Interior, with Mr Buch, who is present here, about half an hour on issues of security or rather of citizen insecurity, about the problems we suffer in our neighborhoods. I think we were able to reach two agreements or two major consensuses. The first is that the crimes, according to the adviser himself, have increased alarmingly in Catalonia in recent years. And the second is that the current per capita police ratios do not cover minimums in some areas of Catalonia. I remind you of the graph we showed you where we showed the municipalities of more than thirty thousand inhabitants, in data from January to September 2018, where in thirty-five of the forty-two largest municipalities in Catalonia the crime had increased, in some places even in percentages higher than 15 or 20 per cent. With this conviction we brought this question to the plenary and with this conviction we bring the motion today. If we see the data of the last CEO, the second concern of public policies of Catalans is citizen security and they categorize it in a seven_about_ten, being the ten very worrying for the inhabitants of Catalonia. For this reason and with the impetus to try to find solutions, as we committed ourselves to the inquiry, we have tabled a motion which contains points such as, for example, increasing actions to act and punish criminal and criminal activities, to work to eradicate illegal and mafia occupation and also against practices of illegal sale such as..., unfair competition such as the 'top blanket'. We have also developed a call for a plan to pursue illegal and fraudulent connections to the power grid. And also, of course, that more resources be provided to the Squadron Corps, that more staff positions be convened and that it is also analyzed whether the current distribution of the staff is the most efficient. In addition to improving communication by working coordination protocols with other bodies and security forces, especially with local police, for obvious reasons and for skills that could at some point be understood overlapped. As you can see, these are points where it should not be difficult to reach an agreement. These are points that are addressed from a work perspective and seeking a political consensus. Mr. Counsellor said in the debate that security must be addressed from a perspective that leaves out ideology, that there should be no colors and we share it. What happens is that in the same plenary when you present the decree of increase of mossos staff we see the representatives of Junts per Cat and Esquerra Republicana saying, then, well, the usual, "if it is Spain's fault, if it is the fiscal deficit. When the reality is that you have managed security for the past ten years and failed your planning and failed your resource endowment as is evident. And the problem is that this record is so grated that it doesn't sound. The problem is that people... no one understands them. Because, as I told you the other day, people don't understand that Waterloo is protected with public resources, but our urbanizations don't have enough police. Or no one understands that you believe in chiringuits and embassies and fill them with plugs, but there isn't enough police to patrol our streets. Or because people do not understand either that you, rather than acting against the CDRs or those harassing judges or prosecutors, always act against them. Because to point out, to identify and to harass those who remove four yellow ties for that there are police officers. In conclusion, during the years of its management, we have seen the practice of most crimes. But their policies have also led to confrontation and increased hate crimes against those who think differently and almost always against them. That is why, and as a final point, we also wanted to include in the motion two points of agreement, one condemning his inaction, when he points out, he points out by social networks to a political party, he warns that there will be a crash, he warns that he will be harassed and, another, explicitly condemning the events that happened a couple of weeks ago in Torroella de Montgrí, where some comrades were attacked. Because, look, while your mayors are proud of what they do, even when there's blood in the middle, you, here, don't come and disallow... [[Widow's remorse.]] If there was blood... yesterday... I'll show you an image, blood of my partner. As long as your mayors are proud of this, you don't disallow them and you don't condemn them. Because, look, while you shield Mr. Torra's safety, while you dedicate mossos d'équadra to your safety, we break our faces every weekend without you doing anything. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.270.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, now, the deputy Carles Castillo, of the PSC Group and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.271.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Well, I'll try to lower a little bit of the rift that we've had today and get back some institutional certainty, I think it's the interest in security issues and that we've been, more, over, over, another shot, to agree enough in general. We, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites for Progress, always try to look at the security issues from this institutional point and, moreover, I greatly appreciate, especially, the attitude of Mr Dimas, the Dimas Gragera company, respectfully, for the effort he has made in agreeing on this motion. But I think that what we need to notice, precisely, is these points of agreement that I think they are positive and launch a certain message of hope to agree on some themes. This young man is a young man of many barred themes, I think he has interesting fears. We have gotten a text between all folds that also puts the emphasis on issues that are interesting. It is true that some fears are repeated, but it is also true, therefore, that, sometimes, this government, it is also difficult for it to complete some parliamentary resolutions, so I believe that this is also not the case. We have tried to make statements in the sense of putting more emphasis on the agreement with the municipal world in general, for example, as to the incivic attitudes, which is that small crime, that low-intensity crime that very much bothers citizens. As for the protection of the public park of habitats, we have tried – and accepted – to put the emphasis on considering the social function of the property. As for the "top manta and the sale of alcoholic beverages, we thought that the important part was the final part, not so much to put an end to the government of certain months, as the government does make special protection to those workers who exploit from this wandering sale, as well as to avoid the unfair competition that entails for that trade and store that completes the law. We didn't just hear about continuing to work out the fight plan against the illegal connection fraud, because we're not aware that it's being fought right now. However, we shall vote in favour. And then we have a point of disagreement, which would be point 9, which is about the intentional inaction on the part, says the motion of certain public charges. I, therefore, cannot accept it because of a subject of loyalty and institutional correction; we cannot accept that there really is a voluntary inaction. And, besides, we think that, if that's said, if this complaint is made, this accusation, it should be said exactly who they are, who they are, because it's just a way to throw the stone and to put the hand. As for the aggression suffered, the last point, for a governor to the municipality of Torroella de Montgrí, naturally, all the support. In general, we will vote in favour of the 90 per cent of the vote, this is the 9th point I have told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.272.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, has the words of Congresswoman Montserrat Fornells, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, also to defend the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.273.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. Again we find ourselves in front of a Ciutadans motion on citizen security and that, in a few points, is quite similar to the one we discussed in this chamber last October. As I've already commented on them then, and now I'm back to doing so, there are some points of this motion that we won't vote for because we don't share the form and the vision with which you pose these problematic situations. We are aware that it is conjunctures that can be addressed, but the measures that put in place in this young man are not the best way to face it, since the poor and the most vulnerable collectivities are criminalized. You're not solely afraid of security, but you go further and you can face them from a wider social and cross-cutting perspective. As we discussed last October, the security problem is not solved with any more police. The conflict with the keepers does not resolve to displace them a few kilometers, but to settle with social and educational policies. It is necessary to work to reduce the entire submerged economy, which harms the economic activity of those who do complete their fiscal and normative duties. Therefore, it is necessary to offer socio-occupational outputs to those most vulnerable people, to reduce work placement plans and specific programmes to help those vulnerable people who have no more alternatives. This week, in an interview with El Periódico, I recommended that a Senegalese girl read it, explaining the traangle of having to sell on the street. She says no one listens to be kept and describes all the anguish and malaise she suffered while she had to do it to survive. She says that the fines will not make the problem go away and she has been able to get away with the opportunity to find work and contract through the Diomcoop cooperative, she as many other people, and also some have done so through the Union of Keepers. Throughout the youth they speak of mafias, relating it to the collective in a situation of vulnerability, in a general way, as if they were still mafias, and this is very irresponsible and dangerous, because it legitimizes a criminalizing speech of the poor. Vulnerable collectivities are not mafia, they are vulnerable collectivities in situations of extreme difficulty they try to pull forward. Some want to criminalize them and not face the situation with heat. Many of them carry more than two years living here and without residence permits for the restrictions of the Foreign Law; therefore, they would have to pressure the Government of Spain so that they could help these people, facilitating permits and, thus, gain access to the world of work and housing. We would also like to ensure that the Mosso act in a coordinated manner to combat the different criminal phenomena, both from the point of view of prevention and investigation. The Mossos also collaborate with the different local police, which are in charge, in the first place, of applying the norms and ordinances of citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, as I said in the previous Committee of the Interior, we condemn any type of rape or assault that I have suffered from any of the deputies and deputies of this chamber, we condemn them all, but we do not want to make any spectacles of it all. In fact, on the Board of Spokesmen, an institutional declaration of this Parliament has been tried to condemn any aggression and you did not want to add to the consensus because you only want to condemn the aggressions suffered by your deputies and directors. We condemn all of them, theirs – we have done it –, also the one that my group's companions suffered when they were escorted by a national police officer to Via Laietana, we also condemn the attacks that the cars of MPs Alejandro Fernández, the PP, and Jenn Díaz, the Republican Group suffered. We also condemn the attack on photojournalist Jordi Borràs. And, you, do you condemn everything, or only after what assaults? Properly demagogic, lie and seek political resolution on such serious issues as this. Since our group, we have presented papers at some points in the House, some of which have not been accepted and others have been accepted. We will vote in favour of the points from which we have accepted the issues such as, for example, the convening of the Catalan Security Council or local security assemblies to address the different types of crime or the coordination and transfer of information between the different security structures. We will not vote in favour of points 8 and 9, because it is not the task of the Parliament of Catalonia to denounce elected persons, those responsible for security or institutions. Finally, ask for a separate vote on points 1, 2, 3, 8, 9 and 10, which can be voted together. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.274.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it is the turn of MP Jordi Munell, too, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.275.0	Thank you, President. Honourable counselors, deputies, deputies, good afternoon. Well, in this case, I follow the line of the Member, Companion Fornells, in the sense of asking for a separate vote and voting points 5, 6 and 7, which are among those who have accepted our papers. I would like to refer to the question that arises from the question with Councillor Buch, therefore, fifteen days ago. Congressman Dimas told us that the increase in figures had been recognised, that the failure had been recognised... I think Councilman Buch made it very clear: the figures must be read from all angles, it must be looked at that there has been an increase in crimes, but there has also been an increase in arrests and investigations. He also talked about the escalating of scams, didn't he? Therefore, I believe that here I am going to give a feeling – I think that I intend – of a lot of insecurity, of problems of living together in the street, when, really, they are not, huh? The motion, for example, does not refer to data that did explain here, to Parliament, for example, the increase of 85_per_cent in the arrests of theft offences with force or, for example, an increase in the preventive arrests of 104_per_cent; these figures are not made in the motion, right? But, for example, Councillor Buch also spoke of another difficult problem: multirecidence; it is a serious issue. How many times have we heard in the media: "This delinquent detained by the Squadron Mosses already carries fifty-four pre-detentions. Listen, here we have a problem, a problem that the young lady doesn't bring solutions or talk about, huh? There is not a judicial task or there is not enough legislation, from a legal point of view, to do the favor that would do this task that are actually doing the Squad's Mossos. Counselor Buch, in any case, said that, recognizing this lack, approximately, of a thousand or a thousand and a number of agents, they recognize that these years have not been able to convoke places, they recognize the lacks also of investments that this year 2019 are also provided for in the premise, despite this, the exceptional task that the Cosos de Mossos d'Esquadra does, but also today we find ourselves surprised, for example, that the High Court of Justice obliges to protect judges, with which we have less movement to do the work that they should also do, that it is also the work of investigation, prevention, detention, etc. Like yesterday's news, too, huh? Twenty-two arrests in fifteen days at Llobregat Hospital, huh? Of a whole bunch of robbers that I had in the houses. This is the task that emerges from day to day, they recognize, as I said before, that we are missing more than a thousand moves and they recognize that investment in resources is never enough, but we should also talk here about economic problems. Those 800_millions, for example, that the Spanish State gives us the Squad Ways to make investments, that's not what we're talking about. Or the problems there have been in acquiring weapons and ammunition for the protection of movements, on alert 4 of terrorism, on the part of the State. Or, for example, another issue that Councilman Buch referred to, or the increase in foreign organized gangs that land or arrive in Catalonia, commit crimes and go back to, and the Mossos vetoed being able to be in the international databases, at Interpol, at Europol, until September of this year was not able to agree to the Security Board that it could access the joint database YES, wasn't it? Therefore, all these are impediments that make the operation and the work of the Squadron Mosses, although we recognize that it is exceptional, there is not all the ease on the part of who also has, unfortunately, the consequences. That's what the crime of scams, Internet scams, Black Friday, buys. Many of these servers or many of these origins of these are in foreign. If there is no such international connection, the Mossos cannot do all their work. It doesn't make any reference, for example, to another fact, does it? , which does not speak of the young man, the five hundred places that did call for 2017 and the seven hundred_five hundred that have been announced for this 2019. And it doesn't refer to the young man, for example, to whom we unfortunately suffer, does it? , which, still being a thing that was, as I said to the question of the councilman fifteen days ago, in August 2017, recognized internationally, then suffered the escape, huh? Starting with the same advisor Forn up to his head, they've all been escaped for a 155, for a real shot of being in Catalonia's security. And he also referred to the motion, for example, to which the Police Unions and the Civil Guard recognized a few months ago, their shortcomings as well: "because crime has been neglected by the concentration of agents, including reinforcements, on account of the process. This really, therefore, does not speak of this subject either, when we speak of security. For all this, as I said before, we could vote in favour of those points in which it is recognized..., changing the verb, so, to say "continue to elaborate or "continue to celebrate, or "review or" to maintain, because the motion seemed to say that it is not done about what is being done and we think it gave an image that is not adequate for all the effort being made by the Catalan Police. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.276.0	Thank you, Mr. Munell. Next, to fix his position, the deputy Joan Josep Nuet, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.277.0	Thank you, President. As was said before, this young man sweeps different things. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of points 6, 7 and 8, which speak of police coordination, police territorial structure and materials and staff for the Mossos d'Esquadra, because we think the proposals are adequate, and we will vote for them. The rest of the points will be voted against. We will vote against them in a first block, for a debate that has already been produced here, in this plenary, with a proposal already from Ciutadans that was telling us about habitat recovery, poor energy or street sales. Well, they were talking about these cases criminalizing those collections that, unfortunately, have to recover habitat, they have to connect to the light in a non-regular way in order to be able to warm up and not freeze cold, or they have to sell to the street in a way..., we could say, as they can, in order to make a living. Why? Because, look, there's a reality that you here in this young man don't place it, and we claim it. 85_percent of the empty floors in Catalonia belong to large estates, and 85_percent of the occupations that make Catalonia are occupations that make families or socially vulnerable people. Therefore, the occupations of the mafias are 15_per_cent, which is like saying that this young man represents only this 15_per_cent, and invisibles 85_per_cent of men and women who are forced to recover habitat so that they do not live in the street. Miri, I had a visit from Cornellà yesterday. It's Cornellà's PAH; a family: five children, the husband and the woman. They pay for a social logger for four hundred euros, and they're a family set. He said to me: "If I lose my job, which I have an absolutely precarious contract, I will no longer have these four hundred euros. You know what I'm gonna do? I'll take care of a habitation, because my family can live with dignity. Are you able, Congressman, to look at this man and tell him that he forms part of these mafias that arise in this young man and that we can treat so many people, thousands and thousands of men and women who have to sell on the street, who have to punch the light or who have to occupy habitats? That's not fair. They make a motion to talk about the mafias and this parliamentary group will vote in favour. With those most vulnerable segments of society, they are under the heading of mafias, and we will vote against them. Because it's a subject that we can't consent to. We will also clearly vote against points 9 and 10, first of all, because the fundamental rights of expression, assembly or demonstration cannot be restricted or restricted by a motion from Ciutadans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.278.0	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. Next is the turn of the deputy Maria Sirvent, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, also to fix its position.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.279.0	Mirin, this proposal equates hate crimes and anti-fascism, occupation and organized crime. This proposal is to criminalize two movements with a great political potential, with a great transformative potential: the movement occupies and the anti-feixist movement. We tell them that if they want to protect the shelter recovered in the 61,000_million euros that the city of bank rescue has paid, expropriate the floors of Sareb and Bankia, that we have paid them to us. In the face of institutional racism and the Law of Foreign Affairs, the border is closed. Before the stigmatization of the poor and the « top manta, a union... [[Widow's remorse.]] Oh, what's not'msent'?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.280.0	It was my mistake, honourable Member, but keep in mind that you don't have the time the accountant sets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.281.0	Oh, okay. Well, then, we say that before the stigmatization of the poor and the stigmatization of the 'top manta' there must be a trade union of bars and a trade union to keep every town, city and village; that before the poor energy that we nationalize the electrics, so that we can enjoy the 5,700_million euros that the electric companies have won in the previous year. Imagine if we could expand the public housing park with this €5,700_million. And before fascism and Nazism, we will not tire of saying that a step back.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.282.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia has the word MP Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.283.0	Thank you, President. We have already announced to you that we will vote in favour of this resolution, of this motion and that, well, although it is somewhat strange, because it mixes somewhat the problems of occupation in public housing, police redistribution, the protection of the right to political freedom and demonstration, and even the physical integrity of everyone in Catalonia who dares and commits the great crime of not being a nationalist, we will vote in favour of it. Yes, very kindly I will ask you for a little political coherence, political coherence for the future. I will remind you that, well, it does not affect public housing, but it does affect private housing, which is also being occupied today, the fact that we supported and approved a law on citizen security, which you initially supported together with our party, the People's Party, and which subsequently joined forces with the Socialist Party and We can repeal through Congress of Deputies, and that precisely that law had mediates that helped to recover property to those housing owners who suffered from occupation by third parties. There were also measures to ensure that the use and enjoyment of public space and the right to ideological freedom and freedom to demonstrate and conduct acts of a political nature could not be impeded by third parties. That was also in the Citizens' Security Act, so I ask you to have a little more coherence next time in the future, among other things because we have just introduced a law, precisely, to fight against occupation. We have tabled it at the Congress of Deputies and, although there has been a final amendment to the Civil Procedure Act, you know very well that it is insufficient. So go ahead with this motion, and I ask you to cooperate for the future.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.284.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, to pronounce on the papers presented, you have the word for the group proposing Mr Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.285.0	Well, I'll start with the groups that intervened at the end. I am very pleased that with the CUP we do not agree on any point, because, if it were for them, the security of Catalonia would be in charge of the CoRs, with which we celebrate at that point not having reached any kind of agreement. To Mr Nuet, then, we must say that it is compatible to solve the housing emergency and to fight against the mafias of occupation or against those who illegally occupy, turn on the light and are a calvary for the neighbors. I believe that it is perfectly compatible, and that our motion was in this sense, and that is why we precisely pointed – and in line with what Esquerra said – to the mafias, we did not point to people. And in relation to what the Government has said, the spokesman for Junts per Cat said that we have not put figures in the motion to justify his government work. It's just that we haven't put any figures on the motion. We said that behind the figures there are always people and there are problems, and that is what we wanted to address. And, look, about the condemnation of acts... because this is always the same debate. On the condemnation of any violent act, Citizens will always be next door, bring it individually or bring it generically. But you are not able to condemn an assault on a partner of ours. They opened his nose, threw a can at him, and you're not able to come here and condemn him. They're not capable. And if not, demonstrate what we are going to do with the vote today. And it's not that they're not able to condemn the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.286.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.287.0	...is that their mayors pride themselves on that on Twitter, tweet it. Disauthorize that mayor, please. But well, when we go with the opposition leader to Canet, their own mayors come and tell us what we do there, what we're going to provoke, the party that won the elections in Catalonia. Curious concept of democracy, the one you have. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.288.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.289.0	Yes, to ask for a separate vote from point 9.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.290.0	Okay. We had a separate vote on point 1, 2, 3, 8, 9 and 10, which I do not know if they can vote in bloc, but I understand that for what Mrs Granados has just said, as at least point 9, separate. Is it left in bulk? Yeah? [[Pause.]] Excuse me. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.291.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] ... 6, 7 and 8, which can be en bloc, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.292.0	All right, so we'll vote... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.293.0	Yes, for reading points 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.294.0	9 and 10, all right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.295.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.296.0	Very well, then, we will initially vote points 1, 2, 3 and 10 together. Yeah? 6, 7 and 8 en bloc, and 9. Don't you? [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.297.0	The 6th and 7th, if you think so, yes, but the 8th, we ask you not to go in the 6th and 7th block.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.298.0	All right. Anyway, we'll start voting for this block, where there's a point 1, 2, 3 and 10. And we're gonna ask you to read point 10 right now, huh? Did you ask me, Mr. Carrizosa? Yeah? So... [[Someone said: "9 and 10.]] Yes, but now we're voting on the 10th. Then, when we vote on 9, we read it beforehand, huh? Read the 10, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.299.0	The 10th. « The Parliament of Catalonia denounces: 10. The aggression suffered by a group of deputies, councillors and supporters of Ciutadans in their visit to the municipality of Torroella de Montgrí, on January 26, and the unjustified refusal of their council to grant permission to assemble a tent, as a further proof of the constant pressures and vapulaeos that bear those who think differently in some municipalities of Catalonia, with the obvious intention of silence and silence them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.300.0	We therefore vote on this point, together with 1, 2 and 3: 1, 2, 3, 10. The vote begins. These four points were rejected by 55 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote points 6 and 7. The vote begins. Points 6 and 7 were approved by 123 votes to 4, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point 8; let's vote point 8. The vote begins. Point 8 was rejected by 63 votes to 64, with no abstentions. We're voting point nine now. And before we read it. So, ask Secretary Pérez, please, if I can read the point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.301.0	"The Parliament of Catalonia denounces, 9, the deliberate inaction on the part of certain public officials and responsible for public security, both of the local administrations and of the Generalitat de Catalunya, to those calls announced in advance through social networks that intend to prevent the free exercise of fundamental rights and justify violent conduct on the basis of political ideology, including those that could constitute a hate crime.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.302.0	We vote, therefore, on this point. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Nine, point nine. Point 9 was rejected by 39 votes to 72, with 16 abstentions. And we're about to vote, if we're not wrong, points 4 and 5. We vote on points 4 and 5 of the motion. The vote begins. Points 4 and 5 of this motion are approved by 115 votes to 12, with no abstentions. I don't think I can vote, because all the points of this young man have been voted on... [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the balance of the first year of the legislature for rights, self-determination, repression and breakdowns of the state's dialogue]] [[302-00059/12]] So let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, the twenty-second, which is the Movement following the question to the Government about the balance of the first year of the legislature for which it does rights, self-determination, repression and weaknesses of the dialogue with the State, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word deputy Carles Riera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.303.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, in the first place, even though this might correspond to the subsequent intervention, in reply, to say that this young man has raised very little consensus – we have to say, we have to assume it. Finally, after many discussions, we agreed on two transactions with the Group of Joints for Catalonia and Esquerra, indirectly, also with the same intention, on the part of the group of commons, but this also happened a long time ago, so that, with the anticipated completion of yesterday's plenary meeting, we agreed, but we arrived late and were unable to register. With everything, and despite that, I say that we appreciate, as well, the effort and willingness to have arrived on the part of the proposing groups. And with that we will enter the presentation and the political defense of the young man. We have to say that what we have presented is a movement that wants to set up real sobrieties, the real exercise of sovereignty and self-determination from our Parliament, obviously with the well-being that this implies necessarily violating the current constitutional and statutory framework. We understand that it cannot be otherwise, and we understand that we have raised a motion that proposes real sovereignty and self-determination in order to achieve social progress for everyone in the field of social, civil and political rights. And I want to read in this sense the points which in concrete terms refer to this: guaranteeing the right to housing expropriating empty dwellings in the hands of big owners in favour of a social housing park and putting up denominations to people and families at social risk; applying a minimum wage of 1,200_euro in all contracts that fall under the Generality; ensuring full equality of labour and wages between men and women; recovering and fulfilling full public sovereignty of infrastructures and strategic resources, as well as of basic public services; reducing by a minimum of 30_percent university fees; halting all actions on the territory of speculative, extractive and predatory nature, and creating a public bank. And, effectively, this, from our point of view, implies necessarily – let's not imagine how to do it in any other way – disobeying the top of the deficit that marks the Law of General Presumptions of the State and the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, which subdues the autonomy and its need for financing to the Central State and also to the payment of the debt imposed unjustly for the troika. Well, this is the mark of real sovereignty, of real self-determination that we have been proposing to exercise from this Parliament and from the Government of the Generality, as it cannot otherwise be, I insist, necessarily transgressing the constitutional and statutory mark. Well, I want to recall a good number of social, political, trade union forces precisely today we have made a public agreement for a mobilising cycle, for a general vagueness, which incorporates many of these demands, many of these demands. Therefore, it seems to us a contradiction, which in any case you will have to answer, as it may be that with one hand I support these initiatives and with the other I do not want to urge the Government to complete these objectives. Look, for what he does to the dialog, that obviously is a theme underlying this debate, and obviously central, also, in this young man..., a dialog that today is turning into a block, into an atzucac, into a col d'ampolla, into a wall that prevents us from moving in this sense towards these objects clearly. Tell them unilaterality, say "disobedience, tell them how they are – say them as they are – but you know, rather, that this unilaterality, that this disobedience is a necessary and essential precondition for being able to go to a scene of a bilateral, multilateral dialogue, that it is truly effective and effective in order to advance fully the social, civil and political rights of our country, and, obviously, including that of self-determination. It is an act of sovereignty, self-determination, and therefore of unilaterality and disobedience, because this is the only one that can create the condition for an effective bilateral or multilateral dialogue. To deny it, sincerely, we think that it is to deceive the country, that it is to deceive the people, that it is to keep the majority of the population of this country deceived and with false expectations, that it is to leave orfes of political project and political representation more than two million people, that they, yes, have self-determined on multiple occasions: October 1, October 3, and they do it every day. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.304.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the MP Irene Fornós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.305.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, well, we find ourselves at the end of the east ple with a CUP motion that we ask to take stock of the first year of the legislature for which it does the right of self-determination, repression and dialogue with the State, a propitious moment to do so, at the gates of the trial to democracy, where the inquisitorial persecution of the Spanish judiciary will demand more than two hundred years for the Government of the Generality, President Forcadell and the presidents of the Catalan National Assembly and Cultural, Jordi Sànchez and Jordi Cuixart; a trial on the bench of the accused of his taken and political prisoners persecuted on the basis of invented crimes, accused of the extreme right and jutjats by partial courts will persecute the door to the door. For these reasons, let me take advantage of the fact that you are not alone making my intervention, but accompanied by the words of the councillor and vice-president of this Government, and President of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, Oriol Junqueras; at his conference of the past 29, the Oriol made clear to us who were his objectives and those of my party: "We want independence in order to be able to create a fairer, more free society, with more rights and with a state serving the citizens. I am firmly republican, but by all means a Democrat who shares universal values. It's been years since I've moved the desire for justice, the set of freedom, and today this is more obvious and more necessary than ever. And we remain firm and committed to this goal, working from the street, from the government, from exile and from the prison. First, with the aim of showing the injustices and impartiality of the Spanish State both to the international community and to the citizen of Catalonia that they have not yet agreed that with the State we can only count on governments against them, whether they are independent or not; that, before protecting the civil and political rights or the impunity of the State, of the Spanish judiciary, will always judge the State and its indissoluble unity. But, because above independenceists we are democrats, if there is a dialog table, never, ever be the first to rise from this table. Certainly, the balance that we have in this table is not entirely positive, the PSOE and Pedro Sánchez seem more interested in the appearance of a dialog than in the dialog itself. That's why this Tuesday we submitted a statement to the totality of the assumptions of the State, because there can be no presupposition dialog without a dialog on how to respond to legitimate requests for self-determination of the city of Catalonia. Left has been very clear about the conditions that would enable the dialog: judicialization, dislodge the path of repression and end the detentions that we lived with a while ago in Girona; table of dialogues between political parties with international mediators that provide a democratic solution linked to self-determination; in short, a dialog that, as has been claimed, gives response to the great consensus of the citizenry, where there is an 80_per_cent favorable to the referendum granted, to the end of the repression and the monarchy. We are not illusory, and here I am allowed to return to the words of Oriol Junqueras: "We know that the State will not negotiate by its own will, because it has never done so. It will, therefore, be necessary to create the necessary conditions for you to do so and assume that the solution is political and democratic. And that is why it is decisive that we make the cause of Catalans the cause of democracy at European and international level, because it is the same cause. And that's what we'll do from the bet for the dialect and the word, as we've always done, because in democracy we have the obligation to try; but also from the firmness and conviction that we don't think of giving up any democratic and peaceful way to take over the Catalan Republic as an independent state. Our goal has never moved: freedom, absolution, self-determination and republic. Our ambition is not to be more independent but the most useful to get there and to achieve it; as we have said many times before, we will not give up our lives. That's why we can't vote for the first two points proposed for the CUP motion, because they're two points that we're loaded with and don't open new ones. We will be firm in the complaint but we will not abandon our responsibility, and we will demand it from both the government and from the street, as from this hemicle, I keep in mind that, as Oriol Junqueras reminds us, Catalonia is his people and our main concern must be the welfare of everyone, a society to live and live; work, schools, greetings and family are the pillars of our option of progress. I, to complete these objectives, the government works every day. And at the same CUP motion we also find several points that could help advance these objectives, but with a follow-up of measures that are already approved, others in which they are working and others that we would like to discuss and work separately and reach agreement, but as they are not able to vote in favour. We also agree, in large part, with the last block of his motion, for which he does the mobilization of the citizenry. The government will never be a demobilisation agent facing legitimate demands for respect for civil rights, freedom and independence, because, despite its repression, they do not want us to. And we're clear on that. They told us it was impossible for independence to win a few elections, and we did. They told us it was impossible to do October 1, and we did. And they told us we'd never be independent, and they were. Released! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.306.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mr Josep Costa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.307.0	Thank you, President. I want to start by sending a hug to Congresswoman Jenn Díaz and thank her bravery. As for the position of the Group of Joints for Catalonia in this CUP motion, I must begin by regretting that we have not been able to negotiate anything. I believe that in the background it was a motion that was not to be approved; it is a motion that legitimately seeks to mark a profile on the part of the proposed group and therefore puts the emphasis on what divides us or what separates us and not what unites us, which is much more. I think he's focused on a diagnostic... that it's not that we're radically against this diagnostic; we know that the Spanish State doesn't dialogue, we know that Pedro Sánchez's dialyx offers don't hold on to each other, we know that they probably can't complete them, just as they're proving now, right? At a time when any suggestion that there will be a political dialogue in Catalonia causes a mobilization of the right and the extreme right, with a virulence, say so, predictable but that it is improper of any democratic society. And so what we find, I think, is the only discrepancy that we have is what the role of the dialog is and why it felt like we were always – always – the last to rise from the table. So, we live in a state where the dial is high treason, but it won't stay for us. The CUP wanted to highlight or prioritize unilateral action or unilateral action. We, apart from the fact that the same one-sided concept is, a little, a mantra that the adversaries have introduced in the report, have always said that we do not give up altogether. And we will never give up any way, we will never give up self-determination and we will never give up the fullness of sovereignty and the republic. But there are strategies and strategies, and maybe self-determination isn't something you exercise for chapters and maybe sobrieties isn't something that's pugi, from the Spanish state mark, to exercise just a little bit or step by step. I believe that there are some points that we cannot vote for, because they ask us to do things that we all know – we all know – that in the current framework they cannot be satisfied, but that they will have to settle down once we follow an independent republic. The dialog and the unilaterality, in fact, are two cares of the same coin. We can never go to an unagreed solution if we haven't tried to make a deal before. This is the receipt that the Supreme Court of Canada already told us at the time. A democratic mandate, such as we have, forces us and forces the State to negotiate, at the table, to dialogue and give out political demands. What represents the weakness or the negative, the intransigence of the State is our right to go forward without waiting for this pact. This is what the Supreme Court of Canada says and, ultimately, what the international right also says: external self-determination is a subsidiary of internal self-determination; when the latter fails, there is the fullness of self-determination. So, I don't think we have such a different horizon, I think we don't have a relationship, such a different analysis as, say, the UPC has provoked or insisted on maintaining a young man who only represents his view of the state of the situation. And, regrettably not being able to vote it all... In any case, as it speaks of the things that we always talk about – it speaks of the republic, it speaks of self-determination and it speaks of a dialect conditioned on the exercise of self-determination, on the end of repression and on the fullness of respect for civil and political rights – we could never vote against it. But as long as there has been no willingness or opportunity to deal, we in these points cannot vote in favour either. I believe that, in short, all of us, the independenceist majority of this Parliament, we are children of the unit that made October 1 possible, we are those that we have to find ourselves in a scene in order to advance and make the republic effective. We have, of course, before a powerful adversary, but we always say that democracy is more powerful. We are the ones who think independence is possible, and also – at least in my case – the ones who think that the one who wants to make the State, which is to keep unity by force, is impossible. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.308.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next and to fix his position, has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.309.0	Well, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I want to start my intervention precisely as the company that preceded me, giving all my support, sending a very strong hug to Congresswoman Jenn Díaz; all my admiration, my support and my affection for her courage, because actually listening to her witnesses was certainly exciting to me. [[Greetings.]] That said, before the text of the motion that today brings us here, I want to begin by saying that, obviously, we will oppose the total practice of the motion, carried by a point, concretely point 4.d, and I will now explain the motion. In fact, the first one I want to make clear is that here we are all conscious, fully aware that Catalonia is not subject to the right to self-determination, according to what the United Nations Organization says. The former Secretary-General of the United Nations made it clear that he even pronounced ex-professor on this question, saying that Catalonia is not in the category of territories with a right to self-determination. They could also cite the UN resolutions, 15/14, 26/25, which clearly state that the subjects of the right of self-determination are only those territories that are under colonial oppression, military oppression, or where there are systemic violations of human rights. I believe that it is disrespectful of Spanish democracy, of the men and women who made this advent and this transition possible to democracy, and, ultimately, of the truth, to claim that Catalonia is subject to colonial oppression, military oppression, or that Catalonia has a systematic violation of human rights. I think we need to start by being serious and not blowing up pigeons. Anyway, at this time we have seen in Catalonia circumstances and episodes that worry me enormously. We have seen as a deputy, in this case a director of Ciutadans, a group of deputies of Ciutadans and a director of Ciutadans were attacked and tried to restrict their freedom of expression to Torroella de Montgrí. Even a ruler of Ciutadans, in Blanes, was assaulted to the point that they broke his face to defend his ideas, to defend democracy and to defend freedom. And we're still waiting for the sentencing of the separatist groups, and very especially [[applause]] ..., especially the Republican Left Party, which has a mayor who, on the one hand, condemned that attack, stood up and said that he felt more proud than ever of the people of Torroella that day, the same day that they had cut his face to a governor of Ciutadans. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, the point to which we logically cannot oppose is point 4.d, which urges the Generality to expel from public space the expressions of fascism, Nazism, masculinism, racism and homophobia. Now, it seems to me perfect to expel all this line of ducts from public space; the first one you, lords and lords of the UPC, must do is to expel this lord from his party. From public space, yes, but also from your party. Someone like the spokesman of the CUP in Torroella de Montgrí, who participated, promoted this boycott to the act of Ciutadans and who is being investigated for this, that there are images up to and where he comes up brushing beer to the deputies of Ciutadans..., I believe that they are not exactly attitudes of respect for democracy, of respect for the state of law and of betting for coexistence. The first thing they have to do precisely is look at home, look at what representatives of Arran have done, which is their youth organization – or now they tell me that it is not exactly the youth organization, but some relationship they have – first look at what they have done in a tribute to Cervantes at the University of Barcelona, when they prevented a tribute by force, by violence... A tribute to Cervantes! They'll tell me what Cervantes has to do with fascism. Now, it's true that the delusion of the most radical separatism up to the point that even relates Cervantes or Quevedo to fascism. Everything's possible in his imagination. He also attacked his media outlet as Global Chronicle on behalf of the Arran youth organization, and we're still waiting for the conviction. How is it possible that a democratic party does not condemn attacks on public representatives or citizens because they do not think like them? What kind of Catalonia do they want to build with these attitudes? It is absolutely unacceptable that these attitudes are not condemned. It is also true that we have a president of the Generality who, along with criticizing and condemning these attitudes, calls for self-appointed CDRs, violent commands that try to restrict the freedom of the rest of Catalonia's citizens, to pressure all those who do not think like them, with their "press, press". Indeed, they are greatly degrading the quality of democracy in Catalonia. And what's obvious is that we learn about what's done by those who don't just condemn, but more legitimately, banalize and frivolize with aggression to a public representative, as is the case with the Ciutadans registrar..., I think a few lessons about what is done. That's exactly what a representative did, a CUP spokesman in Torroella de Montgrí, for me, that's exactly what the definition of fascism was: trying to silence criticism, silence the dissident, trying to avoid the freedom of expression of a city of Catalonia. Please, I think that some of this view should be consistent with the motions they present. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.310.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Mr Ferran Pedret. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.311.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... Miri, propose to us, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, a motion that will not produce huge surprise that we say we cannot share from the first of the points, in which he asks to put an end to all political dialogue, right? It is true that, as Ciutadans' spokesman said a moment ago, in paragraph d of paragraph 4– which we ask for a separate vote – we will vote in favour, eh? Surely in the description of the elements that we should try to eradicate from public space there would not be any other ones, such as anti-giantism, etc., but I think it is not the central question, but we can agree on this description that is being given. In change– and they will allow from the subjective perspective of this spokesman, who has participated in a previous debate, we see a certain continuity with the debate in which this very late one participated–, I think it would be worth some reflection around the question of the dialogue, which has been, let us say, hovering over this parliamentary session, and also, if I may, about the question of sovereignty, self-determination, etc. In the first place, about the issue of the dialog. If for certain political and social actors in Catalonia the dialog can only start from the assumption for the other of the first premises and from the achievement of all the political objectives that a tea, it is difficult for this dialog to be able to produce; if it is claimed that it is possible to talk to another only if it takes its own theses, your political objectives and, in the background, the mark of the relationship, it is certainly difficult. If, on the other hand, for political actors who have a presence in Catalonia but are also state-run, the political dialogue is impossible, I would say, in itself, because the very fact of planting it is already high treason, humiliation, a crime of injury, etc., the mere fact of speaking is to accept the mental mark of the opponent and the only one that is claimed to be dialogue, in any case, after an unconditional return and that all of you, independents, with the identity card in your mouth, effectively, the dialogue is also absolutely impossible. It is true that the dialect that we are promoting and defending, beyond the courts of intent that has made some parliamentary spokesman and with which we cannot agree from the point of view, is a dialect that faces enormous difficulties: from entry, from quite different conceptual approaches, and after, from the practical possibility of reaching agreements, taking into account not only the weight of declarations and positions that each of the political and social actors has taken along these years, but also the conjunctural conditions of the dialog, which we say "conditions". We understand that the political moment to be lived in the proper months presents enormous difficulties in establishing a political dialogue, but for us it should not be radically prevented from this political dialogue. We think we have the obligation, all the political and social actors that we want to preserve the social cohesion and civil unity of the people of Catalonia, whatever the future policy that this society decides to give itself..., we must try this political dialogue. From our perspective, the political solution that independence requires in many of the questions that concern the citizens of Catalonia, therefore, is not a desirable political objective. That is to say, we do not think that the political, social, economic problems of Catalans have a better solution to the creation of an independent Catalan state-birth, let us say, separating itself from the rest of Spain. In fact, it will not give me time to enter the debate on this, but what we propose through the political proposal of federalism is the overcoming of the conceptual mark of the nation-state. Therefore, we do not agree with the nationalisms of the state, that they pretend, let us say, to homogenize, to standardize different national realities that coexist within the same state, nor do we agree with the nationalisms that claim the construction of a proper nation-state. And let us think about the idea of moving towards a post-national framework, in which the national question is relevant, the national question is addressed by public policies and by the administrative, territorial, political, and, therefore, it is relevant, but it is not the defining element of the formation of political communities. In this sense, we would like to see this internal face of the right to self-determination one day in which men and women exercise our ability to collectively decide our common political future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.312.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and on behalf of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.313.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, we believe that there are two central elements in the motion presented today by the CUP and on which I will focus my interventions: dialogue and repression. Speaking of dial, this is the front page of ABC today, the skull trio. « Mobilizations against Sánchez's betrayal. And before this attitude, we want to say one thing very clearly: we do not defend the dialect as a lesser evil to ensure governance at the head of the institution, nor do we defend the dialect to speak of infrastructures or to speak only of assumptions. We defend the dialect because it is the only way to build a future with better and more democracy and which has a future for our country. We do not want a dialogue only on point elements, we want a dialogue on how to lead a second stage of transition, and we believe that at this point it is essential that we build a dialogue on how we want the Spanish of the future to be, a dialogue that for us must contemplate the national recognition of the nations that make up it, the need for democratic regeneration and the reconstruction of the welfare, and we believe that this is an ample space for cooperation. It must be said that for much that the reaction supports the accusation against the majority of Spain of treason or rebellion we are not willing to lower the head and to renounce to lead a democratic bet for Spain. To transform the majority of the Congress's progress and plurinational into a majority of countries, because dialogue, much as the reactionaries say, has not followed a cessation in this country, has followed a conquest, has followed a conquest that has involved permanent citizen mobilizations for years, which has perhaps broken out a force available to the dialect with more than five million votes at the Congress of Deputies, which has perhaps surpassed an internal meeting of the Socialist Party that sought to give Spain's future to the People's Party, which has far exceeded the intervention of the Catalan institutions and which has required us to work together for a motion of censure and to build a plurinational majority at the Congress. Dialogue is not a cessation, it is a majority mandate of this chamber and the Congress of Deputies. [[Greetings.]] Who is not ready today to give in to his idea of Spain we are. Who is not willing to build a Spain where the majority of the Congress of Deputies is not charged and the majority of this Parliament is not charged. There are times, socialist companies, when you have to make a bet of the future and not lower your head in front of those who have no more objection to breaking the possibility of moving to Spain. We have memory to build our future. Those who do not want me to advance Spain have already come out on the road. They went out against the Statue, they went out against the Law of Homosexual Marriages, they went out against the right to abhor and they went out against the right to the historical memory of this country, and then we decided to lead and not lower the head and not give in before the reactionaries, and today also it must be brave and assume that it must lead this country. It is necessary to move forward to build a Spain capable of recognizing that this is a national Parliament and that the Government of Catalonia is a republican institution. And we probably wouldn't agree with the CUP companies on that. They defend the unilateral way and defend to break the dialog if before there are not all the conditions conquered on the table. And we do not share this position, and today we will vote against it, but our obligation, that of those who do defend the space of the dialog is to show that it is a space of future and a space capable of resolving those elements of the CUP motion that we do share. During the election campaign, Mr.Iceta said textually: "Sense doubt would ask the indult, because in this country we will have to close wounds that have a political origin, and that was a difficult phrase, which he said in a debate, but it was a bold and uncertain phrase, and it will be brave to build a dialog in this country and to build a unitary space to give a political and democratic way to repression, because the table of the dialog replaces the pressure as a space where we find ourselves and we discuss the future of our country. It will take courage and leadership to prove them, also to the company of the CUP, that the dialog is the way to build folded a country without prisoners and exiles and a country where Catalonia is recognized as what it is, as a national reality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.314.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The word has the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.315.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. Well, at the length of this mandate, the CUP and we are living an experience that holds us together, and that is that we have the same deputies who came out of the elections, parliamentary sub-group, and that has some limitations. We can't go to the State Guarantee Board alone, we can't call a plenary, we have some limitations on control sessions, and well, we carry it with dignity but with realism. It's not an easy situation. But the CUP, no. You're admirable. They hope even more, and they honor that principle of gramscian inspiration, before the pessimism of intelligence we counter the optimism of will, not only do they see no limitations in their situation, but each plenary presents a motion to change the world, to change the sentient world. They're real cracks, and I recognize them. Well, today he plays with a young man—just a young man, just a young man—to convert all Catalonia—with a young man—to a Republic of Bolivarian inspiration. Well, we don't share it, we will vote against it all except point 4.d, which has been commented on before, but we celebrate your optimism before the recurring ideological defeat that you see from the fall of the Berlin Wall. Every year you lose a country of ideological inspiration, but you continue with more moral than the Alcoyano, who gave that. So, congratulations, and we will continue with the debate of ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.316.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers has the word, in derrer terma, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.317.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, tell the lords and lords of Ciutan to wait for their apologies when it's going to prove, have absolute certainty, that everything they said respects Torroella de Montgrí is lied, huh? Therefore, vaginate with the systemic use of lying as a political tool. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.318.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.319.0	And indeed, we denounce the rape, the rape of the State that is carrying more than a thousand people from this country to suffer repression, and we also denounce obviously the more than two hundred fascist acts that have happened at the moment with impunity in our home, and before that, as always and repeatedly, we say again that they did not pass. Well, for what he does to the dialy, do you know what the problem is? That, Mr Pedret, the State has said that there is a red line in the dialect – the Constitution –, and the problem is that the Government of the Generality and the Lords and Lords of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra have not posed a red line. The problem, company and company of the commons, is not that we want to solve all the conditions before the dialog, no, no; it is that at these times it has not been solved. That's the problem. Therefore, I do not know how you continue to have the least confidence in a dialog in which the State went with all the 78 rule behind, including the Civil Guard, and you with one hand to each buttock. That's keeping the people fooled. Take it, please. Please assume with realism the political situation, and understand that the only way to get to an effective dialog is through an act of sovereignty, through exercising self-determination beforehand, and this is said to break with the 78's rule and do it unilaterally. But, listen to me, we are entering a new political cycle, which will be marked by the courts, by the mobilizations, by the general wave, and we hope that it will be the cry of the street that will say very strongly, that it will cry to what this Government and this Parliament do not want to say, and we hope that indeed the writing of the street will silence the silencing of this Parliament and these institutions. And unit, yes, if it's about breaking with the 78th rule. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.320.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. Of what different groups have said duex that there is at least the request for a separate vote from point 4.d. I don't know if anyone else. Don't you? [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.321.0	Yes, we call for the separate vote from item 1 and item 2a, which could be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.322.0	1 and 2.a. One, two, four, and the rest of the young man? [[Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Bravo...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.323.0	4.d? Finger?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.324.0	Yes, yes; 4.d. From Denmark, diguessim. [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Mrs. Caula...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.325.0	Also add points 2.b, 2.c and 4.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.326.0	2.b, from Barcelona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.327.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.328.0	2.c., and?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.329.0	4.c., from Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.330.0	But either separately or in bulk?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.331.0	For us, these three could be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-07-2402.332.0	We will vote first on point 1 and 2a together, then 2.b, 2.c and 4.c together, 4.d separately, and the rest of the motion. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Okay. So we vote, so, first, points 1 and 2.a. The vote begins. These two points, namely, 1 and 2a, are rejected by 4 votes in favour, 63 against and 60 abstentions. Let's now vote together on point 2.b, 2.c, 4.c. The vote begins. These points were rejected by 12 votes in favour, 54 against and 61 abstentions. We're voting now for point 4.d. The vote begins. Point 4.d is approved unanimously, which means 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 73 votes to 54, with no abstentions. There are no more points to the order of the day, the session rises. Thank you very much.
