ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.1.0	Good morning, the session begins. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the folder that is distributed. And according to Article 164 of the Rules, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first item of the order of the day of this plenary session. The fact is, before, that according to Rule 95 of the Rules, the deputy Ferran Pedret, with the motion of his paternal permission, has delegated his vote to the deputy Eva Granados, spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. And so, the deputy Anna Caula has delegated her vote for this plenary session to the deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group. I also remember that Mr Raül Romeva appointed Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise his parliamentary rights. [[Ask the Government about the presuppostarial impact of private projects]] [[310-00208/12]] The first item on the agenda, therefore, are the questions with an oral answer to the Government. The first question is put by Mrs Raquel Sans, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and on the budgetary impact of private projects. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.2.0	Good morning; thank you, President. Vice-President, in the past weeks, has again put the focus on the project of the Recreation and Tourism Centre of Vila-seca and Salou, formerly known as Barcelona World. One of the main concerns to the territory is whether the transmission of land from CaixaBank to the firm Hard Rock will entail costs for the Generality. That is to say, if this operation between privates will have public costs, since some of you are alerting about the dangers that would entail for the government the purchase of these lands, assumed in 120_million euros. On the other hand, it means that, from the department you're encapsulating, we know that you've worked at all times to resize this project initially planned with six casinos to reduce it to just one. And, in this sense, an attempt has been made to convert the CRT into a viable project, as I said, significantly reducing the role of the game and tying a major paper to commercial, hotel and convention uses. To be more concrete, today the configuration of this complex would be the following: a casino, two thematic hotels, an aquatic center, a commercial center and a high-capacity auditor who, as has been reiterated on various occasions, has to complement and consolidate the current tourist offer of the territory, connected to Port Aventura and Ferrari Land, at the time that it has to serve to open us no more markets in the tourism of negotiations. Now, however, the concern, especially to the Tarragona Camp comarques, focuses on how to transmit the land from CaixaBank to Hard Rock. And above all, if this transmission involves some presuppositional expenditure for the government that you vice-chair. I would like to say that another question which also improves the territory is whether a possible sale of land, with the Generality as well as the intermediary, could harm a future judicial claim by the ancient owners, who have already expressed their willingness to re-tax some land which, at the time, were expropriated arguing social interest, but that the new urban director has not changed the uses and, therefore, could have been revalued. Mr Aragonès, the specific question we ask you is whether the acquisition of these lands by Hard Rock will entail some cost for the Generality and, ultimately, for the citizens of Catalonia. And further on, we would also like to know whether the Generality will take the risk of losing the value of these lands, if Hard Rock's reversal does not succeed or is progressively made. Is the government going to take this risk? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.4.0	Thank you very much, President. The answer, honourable Member, is no, that neither a single public euro nor a single transmission of economic risk to the Government of Catalonia in this operation, as, in the past plenary, they explained both Councillor Calvet and the President of the Generality. First thing I think it's important to highlight: Hard Rock's complex is an important project, a project that can have a positive impact, that has to have a positive impact, that will have a positive impact at Camp Tarragona, to focus this project on an oci offer model, business tourism, family tourism. The weight of the game has been resized, because we understand that the added value it carries is a complement to all that is the policy of destination of the Costa Daurada, Salou, Vila-seca and all the complex of the tourist recreation center. Precisely, when the law that he reformed and made it possible for this reversal to be brought to an end, the year 2014, came to Parliament, I was a Member and I brought this law on behalf of my parliamentary group. And my position was very clear and I think it's where we went today: to place the project in realistic, urbanistic terms; to protect vulnerable collections before the game and also to protect public money from any responsibility on this issue. Five years later, we have the project located in these terms, accepted territorially. And what I want to say to you is that for what it does to the transmission of land, neither a public euro, nor a Catalan euro and the Catalans will make this transmission of land possible. It's a private operation, a private operation. Public money is for something else, it's for sanitation, it's for teaching, it's for mobility infrastructure, it's for security, it's for social assistance, it's for the rest of public policies. No risk transfer, either. That is to say, therefore, the complaints that there may be- must assume who does the business, who does the private investment, because it is an investment of private nature and not public. Therefore, no transfer of risk, no budgetary expenditure in the sale of land. It's a private operation. We will be able to do it, to make it easier, because it is a reality, but obviously, from where we can do it, which is in the urban area, in the field of game regulation, in the field of impulse. But obviously, as the private operation is, therefore, the expense corresponds to private investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.5.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about plans related to external action]] [[310-00209/12]] The next question is about plans related to external action. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the MP Mònica Palacín. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.6.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, I wanted to ask you today for External Action, the external action of the Government of Catalonia. I wanted to ask you..., this action as an important engine for the development of the economy, language and Catalan culture. He wanted to talk about the attraction of foreign investment, which generated more than seventy projects, with 240_million euros and the creation of more than three_ thousand jobs. He wanted to talk about the diversification of exports to foreign markets, as well as how Catalonia has been recognized as the most attractive region in southern Europe, in terms of foreign investment, the years 2018 and 2019. To talk about how Catalan external action is legal and legitimate, as are the external actions, the external policies that make other regions of Spain. In this case, Galicia, Basque Country, Andalusia, Castle - the Manxa and many others, who do the same. And therefore, like the Generality, with this legitimacy, it must continue to exercise its legitimate powers in external action, re-opening delegations and consolidating internationally its potential and values, despite the fact that the Spanish State sees Catalan external action as a threat and, unfortunately, not as an opportunity. We also wanted to refer to this offensive against Catalan foreign action: application of 155, revocation of acts and designations of the Consular Cos; the petitions of Minister Borrell to close delegations..., but this question, we will not ask you today, because the keyposts of the State never cease to surprise us, and let us see these again in action so that we were aware, yesterday, of the reports of the TSJ revealing espionage to the delegates of the Government of London, Berlin and Geneva. And it's not just them, it's the same counselor, it's you. Therefore, today we answer our question, considering these facts as very difficult. Counselor, what do you know about this espionage scandal? What do they think they're doing with the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of Mr. Alfred Bosch, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.8.0	Member of Parliament, therefore, as you say, for all we know, it is about another difficult case of espionage. A democratic scandal, in which state resources are being used and state keyloggers are being used. Aiming, following, chasing the three delegates – as at least we know – in London, Paris and Geneva. To members of this government, and even more, to elected officials from all over Europe. Deputies, assembly presidents, representatives of international bodies. Therefore, here all this with the objective of restricting the international projection of Catalonia as the country, in positive, that is what we do. For the time being, ask for the precautionary closure of three delegations and prevent us from doing the job. A job that's legal, that's legitimate and democratic. And it's necessary. Because if Catalonia does not internationalize, Catalonia loses strength and loses weight in a global world in the 21st century. And also to prohibit us from talking when we are asked, we are talking about our position, about the current situation in Catalonia. A job that is also necessary and that is also required. And, therefore, so as to prohibit the truth. That's what we're seeing. And also the creation of a report on the misuse of our public resources by the Government of Catalonia. When the question is: what's the Spanish government doing with everyone's resources? Use the embassies, use the Ministry of the Interior, use all resources at your disposal to create this report. And behind that there's a name, which is Josep Borrell. That aspires to be the representative of the foreign policy and the common security of Europe. The question is, Mr. Borrell, how much has he spent? Mr. Borrell, what funds have you used? Who have you been spying on? Who's been spying on who and who's been spying on, all over Europe? Mr. Borrell has to give his face. And you have to take responsibility for what we know. And if he does, he'll have to resign. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about climate change]] [[310-00202/12]] The next question is about the climate change, and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.10.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, without atmospheric contamination, children and children who don't have a life expectancy today would have 20 months higher than they do. The climate change and associated problems that we are patenting and suffering, we are making it worse with the economic activities of the current economic model. There is consensus on the effects of the winter-effect gases, the gases caused by transport continue to increase and it is the sector that contributes the most. The proper generation should be able to operate what the government has so far not dared to implement: restrictions on the most polluting private vehicles to low-emission areas. We have a repte, if a large number of cars stop circulating when these restrictions are applied, will public transport endure, col·lapse? We believe we need more and better transport infrastructure. We need to improve the reliability and comfort of Renfe and Ferrocarrils railways of the Government of Catalonia, now that users are increasing at similar levels before the crisis, in fact, an 11_per_cent more than the year 2016. The bus is not solved either, we are also in a growing demand. Buses that can also be caught at peak hours; buses that should tend to be electric, that today we still have hundreds of highly polluting buses. Counselor, they must be more effective and effective in giving answers, if not, they will not be able to lower the effects of the pollution from gases derived from private transport. Efficient also to ensure the salvation of citizens and citizens, not closing hospital beds in high-contamination episodes like this one, that there have been bursts of respiratory diseases at all emergency services in public hospitals in Catalonia. The working group and the follow-up that this Parliament urged them to form with the local administration did not meet. There's a lot of things to start with, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.11.0	To answer the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.12.0	Yes, thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies. Mr. Congressman, thank you very much for asking again about climate emergence, I thank you for all of this. And what we intended was this when on May 14th we declared the climate emergency of the country, we pretended that all of us were aware that we have a great challenge, not just to Catalonia but to the whole planet, to which we have to face from the action. Talking about climate change is talking about climate emergence; it's talking about climate action. You started talking about the climate change, but you ended up talking only about public transport. I mean, we don't just have to be in the public transport camp, we have to be in a lot of other camps. It is obvious that the emergence is based, from my point of view, on three great concepts: one, that of energy transition; the other, that of decarbonization of mobility – and here we are talking about public transport – and the third, all that makes reference to the circular economy. In public transport we obviously need more and better public transport. It is already a coincidence that today you asked me about public transport related to the climate emergency when yesterday we had a new incident in Rodalies, on the R3 line between Molina and Planoles. Between coughs and plans we had a derailment that caused or manifested again this lack of investments of the Government of the State. Go away from this. Go, in fact, of the governments of the PSOE and continue with the governments of the PP, in investments to Rodales, which is what should seek to have this more and better public transport. But in any case we as the government have made the declaration of climate emergency and are willing to continue working with consensus to be able to develop more climate action. I suppose you are also wondering why you want to highlight a point which you have raised with the parliamentary group to two motions from the common and the UPC groups, two questions which were put to me last week or 15 days ago. In any case, in this discussion you aim to make a social table or a climate change summit in Catalonia in the next few months and I want to tell you that, in the hope that I want to make it concrete, we are prepared to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.14.0	Thank you, Counselor. He sensed my second... the second part. Your government has approved a climate-emergency statement. Now it seems that the Barcelona Assembly will also do so and of course that the rest of the public administration in Catalonia will do so as well. Now, it is very good to make statements, but it would be better to make joint commitments and agreements, administrations and economic, social, environmental and political sectors of the country. And that's why I'm proposing that they convene and lead a new climate summit in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word again the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.16.0	Thank you very much. Congressman, we're picking up the glove. We actually want to celebrate a climate change summit in a few months. And we want to make a series of preparatory meetings with the whole sector world, huh? Some summits or meetings prepared for the climate change summit with sectors, in which we also obviously take parliamentary groups into account, to prepare sectorally all these effects and impacts of the climate change, to end up celebrating a summit in which agreements can be adopted not only by political parties, but also by the whole of society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.17.0	Counselor, thank you. [[Ask the Government about the prevention of emergencies and the Interior Department's plans and means to address them]] [[310-00203/12]] The next question is about the prevention of emergencies and the plans and means of the Department of Interior to do it, formulated for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The question is asked by Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.18.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, emergency management and civil protection is a competence, a responsibility entrusted to the Government of the Generalitat, which must exercise as long as necessary in close cooperation with the Central Administration. At the end of June, in early July, we faced an emergency situation in Catalonia due to a terrible forest fire. A situation that can be repeated throughout the summer; the risk and forest fires is extreme in much of Catalonia. What plan or protocol regulates emergency management by the Generalitat for forest fires in Catalonia? Who was entrusted with the direction and coordination of the response to a situation as serious as that experienced in the Ribera d'Ebre? What role is reserved for the Armed Forces in forest fire emergencies?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.19.0	To answer the word, the Inner Counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.20.0	Thank you, President. Deputy..., good day, deputies and deputies. Obviously the leadership corresponds to the bombers, the Bombers of the Generality of Catalonia, the Bombers Cos of the Generality of Catalonia, and the one we will not refuse will be the support of other aids that can come before us from a fire, from any fire, from the Spanish State or from the French State or from which they follow.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.21.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.22.0	Yes, counselor, it's the I'Infocat plan. The Infocat plan envisages the cooperation mechanism of the Armed Forces. The management of the plan, that is, you, requested the participation of the Military Emergency Unit that was activated immediately on the same 26th of June in the afternoon, a few hours after starting a fire in the Ribera d'Ebre. A geographical point: both sides of the Ebro, throughout their journey, are in Spain. On Thursday 27 at the first hour of the morning you, Councillor, explained the participation of the EMU in the following terms: "When a country has a focus and expands we help each other with the neighbors. If we were in L'Empordà, France would do it, but now we are next to the Spanish state. Since its creation the UME, our Armed Forces – theirs too, counselor, not of the neighbor but of all of us – has acted in Catalonia how many times has been required by the Government of the Generalitat. In 2009 in Horta de Sant Joan, Tarragona ; in 2012 in Rasquera, Tarragona, and in Junquera, Girona – the neighbor not, advisor, the UME – ; in 2013, after the severe floods of the Vall d'Aran; in 2014, to pump and drain the AVE facilities in Girona. Your fatuous boast of the 27th made it clear that you no longer live in a neighbouring country, you live in a parallel world. I'm sure he didn't have the courage to tell the UME liaison officer that he considered him a good neighbor. I remind you, Counselor, you are a State; we are all a State. If you don't want to be, you have it very easy, resign from office. Dismiss and stop denigrating civil servants who put their lives at risk for the safety of all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.23.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.24.0	Thank you, President. I don't know why – I certainly know very much about it – I thought I would talk about the fire and I wouldn't talk about its problems, which you have, and where you're looking for problems where there isn't. Miri, I'll explain the fire. The fire of the Torre de l'Espanyol lasted eleven days, cremated five thousand hectares. But this isn't the headline, the headline is they're going to save 15_000. There were times when there were more than five hundred workers, working the fire, and it coexisted with 467 fires of vegetation in Catalonia; therefore, fifty-nine fires a day that coexisted with the fire of the Torre de l'Espanyol. And between the 23rd of June, the revet of Sant Joan, and the 7th of July we had 941 fires of vegetation; therefore, sixty-three a day. Who will participate in this fire? So the Generality Bombers took part, leading this extinction, with the collaboration of the veins of the valence people, the Aragonese people, the people of Castella - La Manxa. If I want to talk about the country, why the Royal Spanish Academy, a language that you must master much better than I, surely, say that "the country is territory with its own geographical and cultural characteristics, which can constitute a political entity within a state. So we're a country. We are a country and the Spanish Royal Academy says it, I don't say it – the Spanish Royal Academy says it. And if I consider myself a country, because the Royal Spanish Academy says so, I consider that people can also be a country because they are no less than anyone else. So, they're countries of the world. I keep going. Who will collaborate in this fire? There were collaboration Generality Bombers – as I said –, the UME, rural agents, the ADF, BRIF, Mossos d'Esquadra, SEM, Civil Protection, Red Cree... ; a collaboration with the mayors and mayors of the area, which was perfect; the veins and veins of the area, which were involved with an impressive force; the Diputació de Tarragona, that of Lleida, regional councils... And with post-emergency, post-emergency, the different departments of the Generality, piloted by the Presidency Council, which brings the local world, therefore, collaborating for post-emergency management. This is the fire of the Spanish Tower. If you want to look at the divisions and the problems and the separations there may be in other things, you do, but you think there's one thing that's much harder, that's that you cremate a forest...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.25.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[Greetings.]] Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the release of documentaries to TV3]] [[310-00204/12]] The next question is about the issue of documentaries on TV3 and the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sonia Sierra. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.26.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. I know that this that I have just done right now, which is to greet in Spanish in a plenary session, is for you, according to your own words « sad, worrying and segregating, and we also know that for Mr Torra it is not normal to speak Spanish in Catalonia. For you it is not normal to speak in the native language of most Catalans, but it seems to you the most normal thing in the world to be outraged if someone cannot speak in Catalan to their toaster. And we know that for a TV3 documentary that, far from helping the Catalan defense, the only thing that has succeeded has been to ridicule the. Look, as I do not think it is by chance that both the documentary of the toasters, the report of Platform for Language and the resurgence of the Koiné group, all with the same message and that Catalan is in danger, my question is very concrete: Will policies of cultural fundamentalism continue to be implemented, yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.27.0	To answer the word, Ms. Meritxell Budó, Counsellor of the Presidency. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.28.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, deputies, deputies. Congresswoman, allow me to tell you and remind you that it is neither the competence of this councillor nor of the Government of the Generality to decide the programming of the Catalan public communication media.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.29.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.30.0	The question has been very clear, it has not been what you have answered and I rephrase it: Will they continue to implement policies of cultural fundamentalism, yes or no? And I take that concept of anthropologist Verena Stolcke, because her campaign of alleged danger of Catalan fits perfectly with its definition. Miri, while most Catalans live with naturality our bilingualism, you annoy those who can serve with freedom any of our two languages. And that's very clear on TV3's documentary when they say that in the event of conflict the Catalans always change their language. That is, only those who have Catalan as their usual language are genuine Catalans for TV3. For, look, for Citizens we are all Catalans regardless of the language we use and we believe that we must defend Catalan, but not with its fundamentalism, because you are becoming a problem for the defense of Catalan. And then there is his obsession with the languages spoken in the courtyards of schools, and they are unable to bear that children speak in their mother tongue at the time of the courtyard, because they hate freedom, they hate that we can freely express ourselves in the language we want, and that we see clearly in their press conferences. I ask you the same question again and add another: are you willing to change your sectarian and signaling linguistic policies? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.31.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.32.0	Thank you, President. Look, listen to me, I'm not saying, I'm saying, language experts, that the català runs in the same way that the new run of every language in the world, and that's it. It's a reality: the català runs dangerous. You, immersed in their compulsory prononolinguism, which is what they would want, therefore, in this sense, do not understand that a government has this responsibility to protect its language, its culture and its history, because it is ours and can preserve it. And in this sense there is this government's commitment. I, escort'm, will tell you that the public television of Catalonia, at these times, is the only European generalist television that shows documentary in prime time. Our public communication media are key to configuring a necessary catal communication space that can be preserved, because they are a clear expression of our identity. Look, the Llenguaferites program has a 14.7_percent quota, which indicates that it's a matter of concern and concern for this city, because it's one of the highest ratings in June. Also remembering that TV3 is still a leading audience in Catalonia, for twenty-three months as a result, is the memory of the network. And, in relation to the 30 minutes, I repeat, he had an audience of 14,7_per_cent. Look, the government doesn't decide the contents of the public media, this task is far from the corporation. And the control of the contents is done by the Audiovisual Council, which, I remember, are appointed for the Parliament of Catalonia and not for the Government. And, if you want to, some of the political groups can also do this media control through the Catalan Communications Media Corporation Control Commission. Therefore, I will not be as a councillor, nor the Government of the Generality, which evaluates the contents of the media.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.33.0	Counselor, time is up... Thank you. [[Ask the Government about post-merger coordination of the fire in the Ebre River]] [[310-00205/12]] The next question is about post-merger coordination of the fire in the Ebre River. Formulated, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, for the deputy Mònica Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.34.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor Budó, as you know, Catalonia is a living country and, for this reason, the Government encapsulated by President Tora, to whom I express all support on behalf of Junts for Catalonia in order not to fail in the defense of the rights denied, has, during this time, promoted the strategy "A country of opportunity, a living country, with the will to promote economic growth, the diversification of the local economy and the improvement of the standard of living and the occupation of rural areas. If it is true that this program had already been announced in relation to the High Land, it is also true that you yourself announced this dissipation that the Ebre River will be one of the first territories to participate in this strategy and, as the Jewish deputy, I thank her for her celerity to make this uncertain decision. For a while, the south of the country has taken all the media attention for a fateful episode marked by the raging fire, a fire that has cremated plants, trees and more vegetation, but that has also cremated heretics, projects, illusions, hours of work... Thanks to the great pocket of infinity of people to whom, once more, we have to aggravate their professionalism, among which there are volunteers, firefighters, rural agents, Civil Protection, movements, local polices, forest defense groups, Red Creu, SEM and the UME, among others, the fire has stopped cremating and is already considered extinct from nine o'clock last night. At the length of these days and always with an excellent job from the gatherings, with its mayors and mayors at the head, and other administrations of the territory, such as the delegations of the Government of the Lands of the Jews and of Lleida, the unit of action, so necessary at the time we live, has been key to conquering the flames and thus avoiding a larger cadastrophe. Institutional coordination and cross-cutting between departments and administrations must now be made manifest in a clear way and we believe that you, as the President's adviser, must not take the lead: diagnosis of damage, handling of aid and responding to those affected as soon as possible. For all this, Counselor, from Junts to Catalonia, we want to ask you what is the plan of action, in relation to the coordination of emergencies after this devastating fire. We are the Ribera of Hebrews, and we are Garrigues, and we are Segria, and, as in the Phoenix, from the ashes, we shall turn the southwards. Let's work with him. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, Ms. Meritxell Budó, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.36.0	Thank you very much, President. Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament, first of all, to say that, after the management of the Emergency by the Department of the Interior, which coordinated in an excellent way, therefore, this fire, this grave fire that occurred these days in the Lands of the Ebro..., to tell them that, from the government, we are clear that the management of the Post-Mergency must allow this catastrophe of the fire we can turn it into an opportunity for the territory. And in this we work and in this we have an in-house look. Mirin, on the 30th of June, with the president, we visited the area affected by the fires and met with the eight mayors and mayors of the affected municipalities of the area. And, disbanded past, I made another visit, in this case, in a coordinated manner with the different administrations that somehow or otherwise have skills in this post-merger management. With the president, the diumenge, we agreed that for the whole week, the territory would give us a diagnosis of the damage accused, so that the next week we could collect it and move it out here to begin working on repairing these damage suffered. And the municipalities, of course, have transferred this diagnosis to us and, together with the territory, they are scheduling the actions that must be taken immediately – removed from the cremated stem, rec recovery – so as to prevent there being more lost than they have already suffered. Also, as with immediate action, we have undertaken to accompany all these municipalities in the processing of requests for these aids, some help that are urgent and that therefore have short terms to be requested, and to accompany them so that they can endure all the necessary documentation and all the necessary procedures that allow them to relax these aids. Also accompany these immediate actions with a mid- and long-term look, and in this we have also committed ourselves. By September, we're going to do an X-ray of the affected area again, and we're going to get rid of this live country project, which will prioritize these communities, just as we're going to compromise it. In conclusion, the most important thing in the management of this post-merger is that we also believe that it goes through this institutional coordination, offering to all those affected what we could say a "single window and that we will manage through the delegations that the Government has on the ground, that it has both the Lands of the Ebro, as it has in Tarragona, in order to give response and coordinate all the tasks that we will have to do between the different departments of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.37.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about institutional follow-up of minor family referrals]] [[310-00206/12]] The next question is about the institutional follow-up of the minor family referrals, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Josep Maria Forné. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.38.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, we humans have many abilities, but it is true that these abilities take a long time to mature and, moreover, not only the time of maturity, but they ask, as the African saying goes, the whole tribe to achieve this maturity. The first component of this tribe is the family, the family is the first element of the socialization of infants and the maturation of these abilities. Circumstances such as destructuring or migration sometimes mean that the family is not present and it is, then, when the institutions have to fill this lack of family. In the case of Catalonia, it is the Generalitat – and, in concrete terms, through the DGAIA – that is responsible, mainly from the figure of guardianship, for making this replacement with professionals, very good professionals, this follow-up of minors who do not have this figure of the family. This is known for citizenship, but sometimes it is certainly far away. For Junts per Catalunya, the theme of social cohesion, the theme of social justice is appropriate, as for other actors, certainly, and therefore, it is a theme that concerns us, because this – that of social cohesion – goes through this maturity and accompanying in the maturation of young people when there are no such elements, by destructuring or by migration. As we want a cohesive and welcoming country, and we know the limitation of resources, we ask you, precisely, to mislead at a very critical time, at a time when there are threats of racism and xenophobia, as we have seen, in fact, the Masnou and other places and in other populations, and in other issues, as may be situations that we sometimes would not wish, we ask you, concretely, about this commitment and responsibility, that we know that it is on the part of the Government and on the part of your council, in this follow-up of the children who do not have this familiar reference at the essential moment of the first socialization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the advisor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.40.0	Thank you, President. MP, MP, MP, we are certainly ahead of one of the most important challenges that we have as society now – that we have as society. And it's a challenge to how we can give support, to face a legal obligation, but, above all, to a moral and ethical obligation, and it's how we give support to all the children and young people who are in a situation of lack of protection in our country, without distinction of ethnicity, origins, etc. The work of the Government of the Generality and, in this case, the Department and the Directorate General of Child and Adolescent Care is to protect the most vulnerable. There is a diversity of situations and, in the last few days, a lot of aspects have been visualized, which are teenagers and young migrants alone, without adult references. Of this collection, there is also a very wide diversity, and that too we must say. We cannot treat these boys and girls as if they were a homogeneous collection, it is very different: different countries– a large majority of Morocco, an 80_per_cent, but different countries –, origins– rural, city–, situations of origin – people who have been trained, people who have not been trained – and now what is close to us is to take care of this element and, especially, to take care of coexistence in all our towns and cities. Because we can't just protect ourselves, but give the tools for emancipation when they're adults, or we don't do our job well. And, in this sense, we need, among all of us, with the logical and normal criticism that there can be any action of a government, to rematch together and not allow it to be given situations like those experienced, to enter a public institution where social protection is done, to protect minors around the Convention of Human Rights, and not to have the maximum consequences. We can't afford it. And in that, I'm sure you'll all help and be compromised. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about paying the 2013 extra pay to public workers]] [[310-00207/12]] The next question is about the payment of the 2013 extra pay to public workers and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Gemma Geis. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.42.0	Good morning, President Torrent. Councillors, advisors, President Torra... We ask this question to the Councillor Puignero because, as you know, the past generation has approved here, it has validated a decree law in the Parliament of Catalonia in which we commit ourselves to making the return of the external payments of the civil servants, the public workers, among other measures, and especially, so there was a commitment to make the payment of the 30_percent of the hard foreign payments of the year 2013, during the second half of 2019. It is true that, in the month of February, the Government of the Generality approved the negotiation with the Spanish State on the return of these foreign payments and the Spanish Government sent a request for information to the Government of the Generality and we saw the risk of not being able to make this payment, because this decree was brought before the Constitutional Court. In the end, the Spanish government made a step back in its threats of the return of foreign payments. Therefore, the parties have demonstrated the Government's willingness to comply with the return of external payments to the workers and the existence of legal limits, rules of expenditure, deficit and compliment of the rule of expenditure, which had been denied by the principle that the Councillor Puignero had exposed them and manifested it in his parliament. For all this, from Juntas to Catalunya, we want to be aware of the compliment of that decree, and we ask Councillor Puignero who is the compliment state of the payment that involves the payment and the return of 30_percent of the external payments, which ends now, in the second half of 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puignero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.44.0	Okay. Thank you very much, President. Member of Parliament, once this legislature began, we made the return of the foreign payments – at least, this councillor made it – his first compromise, huh? This was a compromise with the workers of our home who had to be, so let's say, complete, huh? We thought that was a fair thing to do. Actually, in this very Parliament, you're saying everything, huh? If you say we won't be able to get along with the unions, well, we did, huh? , we reached an agreement on the 11th of December passed to, precisely, give compliment to this compromise. It's also said that we won't comply with this agreement, huh? So, we're already paying, we've paid for the first tram, the 10-per-cent tram, huh? , during the first semester. Therefore, we complete the agreements that we sign, and we also get to say and say that we will not approve the second tram, that we will not pay for it... So, say in this sense that we have demonstrated the precise will to do so, huh? We have approved a law to make this return of the remaining 30_per_cent for what it does, say, this year. That's why there's my commitment, there's the government's commitment to return in this second semester. In fact, this was also validated here by Parliament, in this case on April 10. Therefore, despite the interbanks that the Government of the State places on us in this case, this is a government that completes with its agreements, that completes with the return of the rights of the workers of the Generality, and we will effect this payment in the second semester of this year. And we would do that, too, in spite of the threats that we have faced with the request in the Constitutional Court that the same government of the PSOE has put before us. And, therefore, it has not only not facilitated us, this government of the Socialist Party, the possibility of returning these moneys to the workers with greater ease, but it is more difficult to add. The constitutional requirement is not an example. And finally he gave himself the reason on this assumption. In the end, when we see Mrs. Montero apply with so much... then, following faithfully, huh? The Montoro measures, let's begin to see that there are no masses of differences between the PSOE government and the People's Party government for what it does to the rights of the workers of the Generality of Catalonia, until the end of the last statements by Mrs Montero, say that, while this government, and in concrete terms President Torra, continue to make independent statements, so they will not raise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.45.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.46.0	...the control over the generality's finances.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the Sphere programme]] [[310-00200/12]] The next question is about the Sphere program. I ask the question, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mr Carles Riera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.48.0	Well, good morning, counselor. The end-of-school proposal was marked by the failure of the Sphere program, which took a minimum of one week to manage the end-of-course notes. This has led to hard incidences in the clond of the course in many educational centres, work overloads for teaching staff and PAS, as well as major difficulties in communicating qualifications to students and families. What responsibilities do you assume and demand of your government in relation to this misrepresentation? Will they hold suppliers accountable? Will contracts related to the failed Sphere program be terminated?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.50.0	Thank you, President. Member, in the first place, allow me, therefore, to add myself also to the excuses, already, that the same Councillor Bargalló did to the educational community for the failure of this computer application, in concrete terms in the system, say, education for what he does at the entrance of the final notes of course. Well, as this was happening too... I want them to come up with a question: while this was happening there were 1,846 applications that worked normally in the generality. I'm telling you why we also understand that we're talking about a one-time incident as it happens, huh? , often in computer environments. I, without going any further, so it passes it to WhatsApp or it passes it to Facebook. I mean, even big global companies have some mistakes at certain times. I am saying this because at the same time as this was happening we continued to properly manage what was the computer application, for example, of hospital beds, or of the electronic receipt, or of the recording of judicial views, or the computer management of 112. I am saying this because we are talking about the fact that today technology is becoming instrumental in the management of public services in our country and, therefore, also of social services. It is impossible today to provide a good response in the field of social services or educational services without technology. And therefore, this should be taken into account, too, when we make the assumptions and understand that clearly the technological assumptions must be expanded, we must be... And, therefore, when a premise arrives in this Parliament, I will also ask you for this co-responsibility for what makes, in this sense, the investment in technology so that we can improve the quality of the services we lend to our citizens. Says that, say we're looking at it, in concrete terms, huh? , the failure of this application; to say that also the best way to attack an IT problem is to give it an answer, I think we have to give satisfactory answers together with the Education Department..., because this is solved. It's settled with time I think it's prudent. And now we're looking at, so who are the actions that we need to do from this moment on in order to ask for the responsibilities that are needed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. To ask again, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.52.0	Well, counselor, look, these days we're talking about the Aragonese law, and in the failure of the Sphere program we have a good display of the failure of public service outsourcings. Miri, the year 2012, the government of the best, d'Artur Mas, set aside a large-scale operation of privatizations and outsourcings of public services, with the great arguments, at that time – they must remind them – of a stable of more or less 25_per_cent at its cost, the improvement in the efficiency of the service and the promotion of businesses. The CTTI was one of the protagonists, and if we follow the trail of the failed program Sphere, we find externalized personnel of the CTTI that participates in enterprises like Itéria, that it manages Sphere, with 385_millions of awards, that are to be awarded contracts of technical services and revolving doors between these enterprises, Democratic Convergence and the CTTI. Now, now we've got it, now we've got it, what they want to say to save 25_per_cent, what they want to say to efficiency and business development. The Sphere programme has compensated for its failure and poor quality of service with the over-work and non-remunerated external hours of the teaching staff and PAS of the school centres. Increased business efficiency thanks to private benefits for a poor service paid with public money. This is the concept of efficiency and of avoiding its externalizations, warned by navigators of what awaits us if the Aragonese law applies. Counselor – I finish – will they take on and demand responsibilities? If you don't, we'll do it. Will these contracts be terminated? Will they reverse these failed privatisations? Finally, incorporating the free program, finally, that is certainly one of the best solutions to avoid these misproposals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.53.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.54.0	Yes, Congressman, but this model that you are putting forward, this new ICT model that has been pushing these past years, that sets it up like a disaster, saying that it has received an award on behalf of the European Institute of Public Administration, as the prize for the best European practice in innovation and excellence. I'm telling you why it's so bad it doesn't have to be, huh? Like you do. And anyway, we're talking about a wrong one in an application, 1,800 applications. To say that we too, with this model, are also looking for a model and an ICT sector in Catalonia that generates occupation. And I think this model...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.55.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.56.0	...favors also... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.57.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the data of the increase of the poverty and social policies]] [[310-00201/12]] The next question to the Government is about the data of the increase of the poor and the social policies, formulated on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem for the deputy Ms Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.58.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Counselor, we're talking about the real fracture of Catalonia, the one that existed, the one that exists and the one that goes away: that of inequality. According to the latest data from the Idescat, the population rate at risk of poverty has spread up to 21,3_per_cent. It's the worst of the past fifteen years. The highest rate continues to be in the child and youth population; of the underseven, one_of_each_three lives at risk of social exclusion. And the most impoverished collectivities in the past year, the ladies and the great people. This means that while the economy is growing in our country, the most vulnerable population is becoming poorer, but it also means that there has been no fair taxation to redistribute wealth. And it means that the public policies that are facing the poor are inefficient. They're inefficient because they invest too much and they're inefficient because they invest it badly. In fact, the report of the Foesa Foundation made public last week says that the coverage of minimum yields in Catalonia is very low, it is lower than that of the rest of the State, and that we in Catalonia have guaranteed income from citizenship. All just a year ago he claimed it in a question of decisive and different measures, of paradigm shift, respects the poor child, because a year ago he had shot himself, according to the data of the Idescat, was the poor child. And two months ago, in a motion in this House of our parliamentary group, we approved Parliament's immediate approval of the Regulation on guaranteed citizenship income in order to resolve the population exclusions that are currently occurring in the application of this law. What did you do? Res re respect the issue of the poor child and, respect the rules, say that they did not make it until the year you see. Counselor, the percentage of people at risk of poverty has spread; there is evidence of the inadequacy and inefficiency of their policies to respect, and you, while disobeying Parliament's mandates. When do you plan to resign? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.59.0	To answer, the word has the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.60.0	President, thank you. Member, Members and Members, look, I think from the absolute respect, as at least in some things we should be much clearer and much clearer, everyone. The Guaranteed Income Regulation is being processed, and it has mandatory processing, and no government, because it forms part of the taxation to be done by CTESC, the Council of Local Governments, any citizen or citizen, can advance this processing. I say this out of respect for the citizenry, out of respect for the proceedings, because they are tax cases, and out of respect for everyone. As a matter of fact, we remain clear and explain the truth: a rule that is a complex decree cannot be approved by a government within a week, is forbidden by law, has some processes. And I think this little exercise of considering that everyone is just as smart as we should be doing, and more when we talk about poverty. Because we're very concerned. And we are very concerned because there are two areas, two areas that cause the problem. One: how can we be growing up in work intensity and not growing up in struggle against the poor? And that's because the labor market doesn't work. And that's what we've shared many times. And the second element – the second element –: how can it be that the sector that grows the most is in the big people, because they have increased the average tickets and pensions have not increased? I think these elements can share them and we can look for ways to solve them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.61.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.62.0	Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, exonerates their responsibilities. Mirin, the guaranteed income regulation of the citizenry, in the beginning of the year, already had public delegations by this parliamentary group. We are in July and there has not yet been a response; no response to girl public allegations by any other organization in the country. We're talking about a big and complex repte, counselor; we don't deny it. But if facing poverty and inequality is not their department's priority, who is it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.63.0	Congresswoman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.64.0	The feeling of the citizenry is that the government is neither there nor... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.65.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.66.0	First, it's the priority of this department. Second, then what do we do? Why Arope tax ; for Catalonia, in Arope tax, we have Valencia, the Islands, Madrid, Galicia, Murcia, Castile - La Mancha, Ceuta, Andalusia, Canàries and Extremadura. Don't all these people have the priority of fighting the poor? Out of respect for everyone who does and tries to do the best with the limited skills he has, I think we should respect and explain the situations. The Arope tax, which is taken into account, shows this reality, and it is not precisely in Catalonia where it has increased more. And we will also continue and continue to denounce the situation of the minimum wage, denouncing the situation of the labour market and labour reforms...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.67.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.68.0	...and we will work to give answers... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.69.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[He asked the President of the General Council about the value of the fact that European justice had denied Carles Puigdemont and Antoni Comín ownership of the carrec as MEPs.]] [[317-00117/12]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.70.0	Thank you very much, President. How do you appreciate that last July 3rd European justice prevented Mr Puigdemont and Mr Comín from taking office as MEPs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.71.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.72.0	Mr. Congressman, good morning. Therefore, precautionary measures are required, these precautionary measures have not been given, the procedure continues. We are absolutely convinced that President Puigdemont and Councillor Toni Comín will be MEPs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.73.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.74.0	Thank you, President. Indeed, on 3 July, European justice ruled that Mr Puigdemont and Mr Comín would not take possession of their minutes as Members. Moreover, first the European Parliament and then the General Court of the European Union pointed out – I quote textually – "that the official list of MEPs should be transferred by the Spanish authorities. The Spanish authorities, yes, of Spain; that state which, in your opinion, is a facsimile and oppressive state. Having made that observation, I raised a simple exercise of self-help, to see what it seemed to you. Has it not been thought that if no European institution considers Spain to be a facsimile state, at best, and only at best, the only facsimile could be you? [[Widow's remorse.]] Has it not been suggested that, if Spain has received explicit support from all the institutions and pillars of the European Union, at best, and only at best, the only one trampling on fundamental rights could be you? In short, has it not been suggested that, at best, and only at best, you are like the naked king, who thinks you are being engulfed in beautiful and democratic clothes when in reality the whole of Europe sees you in anti-democratic chopped ball? [[Rialles.]] I think you should reflect on these issues, Mr Torra. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.75.0	President, before... congressman, you know perfectly well what the terms of the agreement are, I think you've exceeded the limits we've set ourselves with the expression you've made. He asks you, Member, to withdraw the expression or I will have to call it to order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.76.0	I didn't call anyone a facha. [[Widow's remorse.]] I've invited you to reflect on the possibility that it might be.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.77.0	MP, if you want to enter a dialectic game now, but in any case, I insist, I ask you to withdraw the expression, because it seems that you have exceeded these limits that we have marked. And if not, I'll have to call him to order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.78.0	No, no. It's just that I haven't called anyone a facha. Therefore, I insist, I have invited to reflect on the possibility that someone might be.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.79.0	So the cry to order. If we follow this path, you know what the consequences are. It must be taken into account in the Minutes of the Plenary. To answer...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.80.0	For a point of order. The constancy in the act is done to the second cry to order, not to the first. I ask you to strictly apply the Rules.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.81.0	Yeah, yeah, I asked him to take it off, he didn't take it off. I told him he'd shout at the order, and I'll call him back at the order again, Congressman. Which is in the Minutes of the Plenary. Congressman, we're not going into a discussion right now, say, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.82.0	Mr President, we want to know exactly how many calls to order are made and the exact reasons for which these calls are made to order. Because you have made one and asked for consistency in the record, and according to the Rules, the consistency in the record has to be asked in the second, and there is absolutely no element that justifies a _second call to order. From my point of view, there's not one, but I don't see the second, I don't see the motivator of the second call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.83.0	Deputy, I asked the deputy to withdraw the expression or shout it to order, first time. He didn't want to withdraw the expression, it's on his right, but I also have an obligation to make a _second call to the order and that is in the record. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Rodriguez, we will no longer enter into discussion. You don't have the word. Keep going. We're still at the control session. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Congressman... To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.84.0	Yes, thank you, President. In any case, the "stitched stone" was also an expression that, at least, must have been unpublished... [[Funnel veils]] , « chopped pilot – forgive –, « chopped pilot, exact..., quite unpublished in this Parliament. I regret that these terms are being used, but in any case, you were talking about the 'Failed State, right? Literally. Or what I was talking about... In any case, I don't know exactly what country you live in, in this, in ours, in Catalonia, yesterday passed the following: it was set the trial for Major Trapero, it was fined for the Central Electoral Board the Honourable President Puigdemont and Councillor Comín with three_ thousand euros, there were recorded differences depending on the Generality. If I may have a personal note, the Prosecutor's Office will often ask me for months of disability and 30 thousand euros of fine. Members of Parliament are being investigated without any news of this investigation being made, councillors are being reprimanded, Councillor Buch, another time they are being sent out, and we simply need to be aware of the fact that the Spanish State is spying on us in delegations, and more so in delegations, people, deputies and deputies, journalists from other foreign countries. It's not that the keyboards are down, they're collapsing at this point. They're collapsing. And repression in this state, actually, is coming to an absolutely intolerable point. I'm sorry for what you said. I return to your initial question, whether you had any intention of asking a question, or simply is dedicated today to insulting me directly, but assuming that there is a question, I can assure you that both President Puigdemont and Councillor Comin will be MEPs because they were candidates who were chosen for citizenship, they are elected and I am not convinced of the support of the Court of Luxembourg. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.85.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about xenophobic attacks on centres where minor strangers are not accompanied]] [[317-00119/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.86.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, what is the Government of the Generality doing before the xenophobic attacks on unaccompanied children's and adolescents' centres and how does the Government intend to manage this part of the country? And I refer specifically to immigration and xenophobia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.87.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.88.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Thank you for asking about this. I believe that, as the counselor said, it is a very important issue now, it is a topic that we need to address – from country to country – with collective responses. In the first place, do not stigmatize this collection, in absolute. Put us in what they have endured all these young people and all their life experiences that accumulate and, therefore, the support that inexcusably a government that works for people must donate, and then, if it seems to me, I will give it details of all the measures that this government is implementing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.89.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.90.0	Yes, thank you, President. I believe that the first thing we have to do is not to improvise and, above all, to think that these cases are not winged attacks, but that they are given in a general context of profound inequalities, that they are not only affecting Catalonia, that they also affect Spain, Europe, and that in the end what they do is to face the last against the penultimate and to give to the extreme right. And in our case, moreover, she is a woman against a collection that are children and adolescents, stigmatizing a whole collection, when in reality the majority have not committed practically any crime. I also want to say that we do not want this issue to be used as a starting weapon or with party ends, and as Campalans said, now more than ever, in this case, politics must be pedagogy. This is why, beyond the fundamental and essential speech against racism that you are making, you also call for concrete measures, such as denunciation, such as pedagogy, as well as progressing towards a common speech and also public policies to manage the reality of immigration. All administrations must work in a coordinated, planned and robust manner to address this country's challenge. This country has known, in other moments of its history, to face and manage well the challenge of immigration and now we have to do it again. And that's why we have to do very concrete things. The first is to require the Government of the State to complement international legislation at the border. Secondly, pressure must also be put on the reform of the Foreign Law and the closure of the CIS. And thirdly, president, we need resources, we need material, human, economic resources, we need training and we also need coordinated action. It is not possible to act on the scale of the municipality, the joints, which are the ones managing the day by day, and at the moment you are not acting in a coordinated way. It's true that the last few months are putting more resources on the table, but they say two things to us in a nutshell. First place, one, they're insufficient. And second of all, they're coming in uncoordinated. Moreover, the assembly centres do not have educational projects, the workers and the workers are in a precarious condition and the ratio is very high between monitors and children. For this reason, Catalonia has always been a homely country, it must continue to feel it, and it must act forcefully, decisively and with dialogue and agreement with all democratic forces. Besides, we have to do this because it's a human rights issue, but also because I'm pushing back the Children's Protection Act and because interculturality makes us stronger and allows us to move forward. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.92.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I think that this is a very interesting debate, that we are dealing with the touch and the delicacy that falls, to talk about material of extreme sensitivity, because we are talking about very vulnerable people. And I agree, if you'll allow me, in a 99 percent of everything you've said. Therefore, let's get to work folded, because this also happens because the groups of this chamber know how to work folded on this assumption, also with all the joints, with all the administrations. But I also want to answer him about concrete measures. They think that the year 2015 will reach 377 smaller migrants. By May 2019 there were 1,060 girls and girls, only until May, but last year there were 3,600 minors. I mean, we've multiplied by giving these people the end of it. In two years we have multiplied the economic resources of DGAIA by seven. If we spent 2016 eleven million euros and thirty million dollars in 2017, 2018 will be spent around 72 million dollars and the ones that are needed, because all the children arriving in the country are accompanied and well cared for. We open a collide center... we get to open a collide center every week. We have created 3,600 seats in one hundred and fifty centers. For all this, I would like to make manifest the extraordinary work that has been done since the Department of Work, Family and Benestar. It's true that we're missing..., and we're driving new-opportunities program policies, because, obviously, we need to think about the future of all these young people who will no longer be smaller and want them integrated into the country – it's clear that they will – working and with a decent life. And that's why we're talking and thinking about all the active employment policies. In short, we all have to be able to give answers, an inclusive, welcoming response, because this country has always been a country of embrace and inclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.93.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the collective ability to react before fires such as the one in the Ebre River, the Segria and the Garrigues and about the rescue to the families and the territories affected]] [[317-00118/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.94.0	Thank you, President. Many honourable President of the Generality, I would like to take advantage of this monitoring session to show the solidarity of my parliamentary group with those affected and affected by the fire of the Ebre River, the Segria and the Garrigues. And also to thank all the people who worked to control it and turn it off: the bombers, the movers, the foresters, the people of 112, the staff of the Service of Medical Emergencies, the Group of Medical Emergencies of the Bombers, Civil Protection, Red Cree, rural agents, volunteers and volunteers, local police, effect also of the rest of Spain, like the Military Unit of Emergency, etcetera; all. President, once the fire was extinguished – which is when it was played and not before – and after the conviction that the reaction was correct, I wanted to ask him what is the Government's appreciation of our collective capacity to prevent and extinguish fires of this nature and the process to rescue the affected families and territories.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.95.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.96.0	Thank you, Congressman. And I appreciate those words. Indeed, the extinction of fire, of this great fire, of this devastating fire, which I, as President of the Generality, lived for the first time and seemed to me to have to be present to give, quite simply, I support all the people who were participating in it..., for me, personally, there has also been an experience in the sense of agreeing that this country when it sees an extreme situation and of an absolute urgency..., in which the whole country has to stand in the way, is able to give extraordinary answers – extraordinary. But I'll be back every day. I repeat that routine that makes us safer, convinced that we will go to our woods and there will be no fire. This day-to-day prevention policy is where all the emphasis is now, too. And now I'll answer the second part of the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.97.0	Thank you, President. To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.98.0	Thank you, President. We would like to use it to alert, in a telegraphic way, some shortcomings that we think we should be able to overcome, and, as you have said, collectively. First of all, problems that have accumulated in time of staffing and lack of various materials, of vehicles and of the equipment of the bombers. And certainly because of the need to renew some parks and create them from us. I've been able to personally prove the fatigue and demotivation of our bombers, and it's a phenomenon that I can face. Our feeling is that the emergence system, which has been expanded, has not lost enough attention, endowments, training and motivation in the past few years. There was a lack of planning, a sufficient number of operations and an adequate supply of material. The fires have also laid on the table the shortcomings of the management of the territory. We're talking about depopulation, aging, impoverishment, and abandonment. We are talking about a concentration of private investment in the metropolitan region of Barcelona and a drastic fall in public investment in rural areas, up to 80_percent since 2010. We're talking about deficiencies in the management of forests, rural roads and streams. President, we have a comprehensive response to this problem, a coordinated response with the joint administration. The prosperity of our country is incompatible with the severe territorial imbalance so many times denounced and it is up to the Government to take the incentives to reverse a situation, which we must do quickly if we do not want to misrepresent the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.100.0	Yes, indeed; I am also very much in agreement with what you are exposing, and more extensive to collaborate and find, so, if necessary, the necessary arrangements to pull forward, but some points also seem to me that..., seem to me to be relevant to the topic of bombers, for example. Indeed, for six years there had been no promotion of us as bombers; this government has reversed it and this year there will be 250 new bombers and 250 more, 250 more, up to a thousand new bombers. This government has also boosted the renewal of the logistics park of our fire stations, investing more than 90 million euros, so we can change their vehicles. And finally they also know that we came to a wage agreement, that it was also an agreement that we had pending, etcetera. Therefore, we have made an effort, I think immense, and I would like to thank the Councillor of the Interior, so his involvement in this issue, which moved us to every weekly meeting of the Executive Council, on the need..., the need to deal with the issue of bombers with the importance that this required. But there's a whole project we've already completed, which is the Living Country project. We want to speak differently in the territories. We want to have a bilateral relationship, a relationship from you to you. We want to listen, we want them to follow us who tell us what the problem is in forest management, in depopulation, what communications they need, terrestrial and digital, also so important. And, therefore, we have already started a program that will start for four regions, for the High Land, for the Bank of Hebrews, for the High Urgell and for the Pallars will know and that [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] It must allow us to attack in those...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.101.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.102.0	...comarques that need it the most... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.103.0	The next question is the formula... [[Question to the President of the Generality on the international impact of the October 1 judgment and on repression of persons and institutions by the State and justice]] [[317-00121/12]] ...on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Congressman Sergi Sabrià. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.104.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, President. The October 1 judgment constitutes a general cause of political character which has resulted in a clear manifestation of repression of the exercise of fundamental rights and political ideas. It is no longer the case that this parliamentary group, which has said it all too often, is saying that it is the preliminary conclusions of the International Trial Watch that were presented yesterday, President; an academic report on the procedural questions that put black on white the evidence: there is no basis for the accusations of siege and rebellion; if the Criminal Code is strong what is done is to pursue ideas, and these months have seen a political judgment. That's what international observers say. We will not tire of reporting it: there is no basis. And the case is general, general and political, to the Supreme, but also to the Audience, to the 13th and High Court of Justice of Catalonia. And we won't stop saying it every day, and less so that the Civil Guard has returned to our furging departments, looking for information about the October 1st that they won't be able to find, and that shows another time their ineptitude. Nor will they find anything in the case of the thirty lawsuits that are also being investigated to put the ballot boxes on October 2017. And when we thought we wouldn't be able to surprise each other any more, so now we find that they're also spying on political rivals. I'd have to believe it if we hadn't seen all the colors before. And always to put the ballot boxes down. And if it's not to set the ballot box, to set the plates. And from here, president, all of our support before a demented petition from the prosecution, all of our support. Obeying freedom of speech and democracy is disobeying injustice, challenging incoherence, and here we always find ourselves. And it makes us strong from strong and cohesive institutions, from strengthened institutional independence on all fronts, from elections to elections. That's the only way we can face a repression that won't and won't stop, president. And now we have again a good opportunity to prove that we are all on the rise, an opportunity to strengthen all – all – the institutions of the country, all. Fem-ho, because this will also be the best way to fight repression. Hello, President? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.105.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.106.0	Yes, thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Indeed, we see that repression does not end and that, as much as a PP government as a socialist government, repression advances it. And I think yesterday we had a clear proof that even it gets worse – it gets worse. And it gets worse with a tactic of acting on different collections, on different people, with which thing that necessarily collective response, which is what this country needs, that unity response that this country needs, so we can't or can't finish seeing it. Not just what you said; threats, too, about control simply finance because this government defends Catalonia's right to self-determination and its right to become a republic. So it turns out that we have an extra intervention because a minister decides that, for what we express, for what we think, we deserve this extraordinary intervention. Look, if repression affects us all the same, if the object is for all independent groups the same, we go all the way together. It seems that this should be one of the maximums of independence. I remember a few words from Jorge Wagensberg, who said, "You can live with contradictions but you have to look to live with the smallest possible contradictions. I think this is a phrase that we should apply all folds, all independence has to apply these. And, if I may, throughout this year and a half of Article 155's application, see what we've begun to do wrong because we find ourselves, therefore, in this situation in which we must recognize that at these times we have these contradictions and live with these contradictions. But I insist, they must be the least possible, but we must see where these contradictions began and everything that has happened. Therefore, I am with you, Member. I think we need to make this effort, because citizenship deserves it. Moreover, let me also regret and express, therefore, the part of guilt that I am sure I also must have at this moment that I have experienced independence. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I think we all have to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.107.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.108.0	...this correction exercise, but let's move forward together. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.109.0	The next question... [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the response to the new wave of repression against Catalonia]] [[317-00120/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Albert Batet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.110.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. President Torra, it is clear that the events we have seen in the last twenty-and-four hours, the last weeks and days, are events that reveal a new wave of repression in Catalonia. We have seen how Councillor Buch, who was president of the Catalan Association of Municipalities, was accused for his collaboration with October 1. We see how Mrs Borràs, now a member of the Congress, has also been investigated in a very orthodox way. We see how the results of the European elections, as they moved to elections to the Congress of Deputies and to the Senate, have not been respected by the Spanish State, which places all the possible passages for the Junqueras Euro MPs, President Puigdemont and Councillor Comín cannot exercise their rights in a full manner. We see how repression also goes up to civil society. This same dills declared to the TSJ two people who spoke before the government delegation when President Puigdemont was arrested, for, theoretically, some incidents that..., that were not donated. We see, at times, as a government of the Socialist Party of Mr. Pedro Sánchez eludes the dialog again, which prefers elections to face a dialog that can resolve the conflict between Catalonia and Spain. We see that the repression is also brought to an end in a totally unjust trial, in a case of '1 October, in a trial of the 13th that the Civil Guard brings to the Generality of Catalonia, in a case of the TSJ where there are deputies from here the Parliament of Catalonia, like Mr Jové, who have begun his instruction; that we see that more than any other UN resolution, not escorted by the Spanish State, that demand the freedom of political prisoners, and that we see international reports that pose doubts about judicial guarantees. And to all this we add a little more, for the third consecutive legislature, as the Spanish State went against the President of the Government of Catalonia, as it did with the President But, as it did with President Puigdemont and now demanding his disqualification as President. President, how do you think independence and Catalonia have to face this new wave of repression?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.111.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.112.0	Thank you. Thank you, honourable Member; absolutely in agreement with your analysis. So we have to answer in the same way that society is asking for us. I mean, every right we don't have to exercise again. If the right to freedom of expression is denied, we must exercise freedom of expression; if the right to protest is denied, we must protest, and if the right to self-determination is denied, we must exercise the right to self-determination another time. That's how it works. But I would like to focus..., because in these last few hours there has been a serious event – before the Councillor of Exteriors also pointed it out –, which is what he will surely know..., a fact on a European scale, which is – meaning doubt – the « Borrellgate, to hear us. The state's locksmiths are acting with impunity at these times... as they have always done, certainly, but still more, absolutely more open, thinking that they won't be billed. But this time, we've stopped, we've been spying on not only our delegates, we've been spying on Members, we've been spying on foreign journalists, and so we've got to take on these responsibilities for this scandal, we've got to take on. We, with the Vice President and the Councillor of Exteriors, will now meet at two-quarters of a dozen, to see what are the consequences of this scandal and to set up a series of measures. But I have no doubt that we will demand the resignation of Minister Borrell; moreover, I have no doubt that we will put into the knowledge of the European Chancellors and the Members of the European Parliament the action that has been carried out by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Spain against – against – an idea – against an idea; because it is being pursued and investigated and people are being followed by people who are either simply or they are navigating to summon or they are navigating to speak or they are navigating to defend independence. There's enough to pursue crimes of opinion in a presumptuous democracy. That's enough. We won't be quiet or quiet, immigrating from this scandal, absolutely. It will have all the reaction on the part of the Government of Catalonia, all at all levels. And I hope that this room also gives him all its support. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.113.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the xifra-record of the poverty rate]] [[317-00116/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Lorena Roldán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.114.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Torra, we're beating records that we should never have hit. We have the highest poverty rate in the last 15 years. What is your Government doing about it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.115.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.116.0	Look, Congresswoman, remember, the ones that you provoke, because vaginate where vaginate what you do provoke is everyone's rebroadcast. That's the memory you got.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.117.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.118.0	Mr. Torra, you've touched the bottom. I don't say it, all the indicators say it, and so does his partner Elsa Artadi. And the problem, huh? It's not that you've touched the bottom now, it's that long ago since you touched the bottom, since you decided to go this way into the abyss. I ask you: what have you achieved in all these years, Mr Torra? Can you tell me one good measure that you have achieved for all Catalans? Do I tell you? Not one, not one. If we look at the data from the last survey of living conditions of the Idescat – the one you do –, it gives very worrying data: more than half of Catalans, for the first time, show that they have many difficulties to reach the end of the month; among minors, 28_per_cent are poor; among older women, poverty affects one_of_every_four. Yes, you've touched the bottom, yes, yes. This is the first time we have agreed, Mr Torra, because it turns out that, of course, between lies and lies, they are missing some truth. And the problem is not that you have touched deep, the problem is that you are dragging all Catalans into your black hole. You're a genius disobeying, but you're a lousy president. And now the prosecution is asking for your disqualification, but the truth is that you are disqualified from the first day to be the president of all Catalans. Because you don't have a project for Catalonia beyond dividing us. The only thing you have announced during this legislature, do you know what it was? Don't manage these data that we see so worrying about poverty, no; don't reduce waiting lists in health or dependency, no; don't bring in some budgets that could help this I'm saying, no, no; the only measure, your star measure of this legislature, is that they will do it again. That's his star measure. And I ask you: what will you do again, Mr. Torra? I insist on each plenary session because you do not answer me. You come here, let go of your book, don't you? , and it looks like the control session you do to us. Look, the Catalans don't get to the end of the month, but you in the meantime waste everyone's money on a plan that's gone deep, which is a failure. If you do it again, we'll slow it down again. There's no doubt about it. They will once again stand up to us defending the democracy, freedom and dignity of all Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.119.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.120.0	Yeah. I insist, don't I? You have the virtue of generating strange consensus, which is that where you go, you cause the rebuking of all types of collections, it's the same. We already knew it here in Catalonia, we've already lived it, we're still living it, let's just say it. But, of course, now they export it to Spain, and now it turns out that the Spaniards get who you are, that you are, so, the geniuses, huh? Since you were talking about geniuses, allow me, therefore, me, too, to respond to it the same – the geniuses of a creativity, of an engineering and even of unusual abilities. It's that you only do it and you only know how to do it. It's really extraordinary. Manufacturers of provocation, animators of the fracture, professionals of the conflict, designers of posters... I hope that now when I turn – three, two, one – there is a sign... There is no sign. Report inventors. The ‘permanent scandal' is its strategy. They flood the gang with their victimism, huh? They make their videos, they go to their places, they send the videos to see if later..., that's what comes back, okay, so..., impact in networks, take minutes in third parties. You live from this, from the "permanent squawk." They have made their policy a permanent sham. I told Mrs. Arrimadas that they were anti-policy; unfortunately you haven't changed, they're still exactly the same. So, look, listen, this government has managed in six years, and the previous governments, that this country grows, it always grows over the European media, that this year we will grow 2,2_percent of GDP – let's not say we, the Santander Bank, says the BBVA –; that this year we will surely fall under 10_percent in the gyra of October and 2020 we will be in 9,5_percent of the gyra of October, an extraordinary gyra that we have not seen before the crisis. This country continues to record exports, and nearly three-quarters of our exports are outside the world and not to the Spanish State. The Financial Times continues to say that the region of southern Europe is better invested in Catalonia. All of this – all of this – is what makes a country on the march, a country at every turn, all of this is what you don't want to hear. And I'll tell you again, this is all a country on the march, a country at a time, a country that can overcome any challenge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.121.0	President, time is up. [[Greetings. The deputies of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans show a full room. Greetings and strong remorse.]] The next point of the order of the day... silence! [[Project of the law of creation of the Agency of Public Health of Catalonia]] [[200-00004/12]] The next item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Health Commission on the draft law establishing the Catalonia Public Health Agency. In accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Gemma Espigares, who has been appointed by the rapporteur, has the first word. Deputy, when you want to. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.122.0	Quiet, please. The word has the deputy Gemma Espigares.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.123.0	Thank you. Good morning, Counselor, Secretaries of Public Health and the accompanying team, and to all the people who directly or indirectly have helped us to build, dynamize and end up wiping this law, and also to the comrades of the rapporteur, to the deputies Soler, Riera, Escarp, Ribas, Vidal and Rodriguez. Today is the last parliamentary process of this Law for the creation of the Public Health Agency, and let me first contextualize it. The Generalitat, as it has the shared competences to order, plan, regulate and execute actions not only to prevent malalties, but also to promote health, occupational health, environmental health, food health and epidemiological surveillance, created the year 2009 the Agency of Public Health of Catalonia and created it with its own legal personality, with an autonomy of management, with a portfolio of own and also territorialized services. And it's 2014 that we're extinct, that these functions that come from the agency attribute them to the Health Department. And the year before 2018, the Secretary of Public Health and the Government again set the table for the recovery of the Public Health Agency, giving that the crises that had occurred and there had been in the public health themes cause that, by efficiency, by agility, by flexibility in the way of functioning and to separate all the political decision-making or strategic policy tasks in the field of public health from those most instrumental, which are separated from the agency and the functions of the secretary. With all this, the parliamentary activity that we have had these past months, initially realizing that there was another consensus in this bill, was to make two appearances. And I am sure that all the speakers who have accompanied me..., and on their behalf, therefore, to thank the work that we have had at the Carme Borrell, manager of the Barcelona Public Health Agency; at the Catalina Chamorro, head of the Barcelona Public Health Agency; at the Marina Geli, former Health Advisor; the Antoni Sisó, president of the Catalan Society of Family and Community Medicine; the Antoni Plasència, director general of the Institute of Global Health; the Jordi Baroja, president of the Catalan Public Health Society; the Alba Brugués, president of the Association of Family and Community Nursing, and the Llorca Manel and the Josep Corominas, representatives of the Catalonian Municipal Federation and the Municipality of Catalonia. From all of them we have extracted valuable contributions and also from all the work of the deputies, which ended up being reflected in fifty-one items in the initial articulation; from these, 90_per_cent, or more than 90_per_cent, have been incorporated or traded, and this also poses from the table this broad consensus or flexibility that all the deputies and deputies have wanted to hold to the commission in order to have the best possible law. And this brings us to an opinion, signed jointly between all political groups, which was unanimously approved by the Health Committee. And from here there are five living elements, which I understand today the groups that surround them will defend them in their turn; only these five living elements. Finally, in the last few weeks we have also signed some technical elements, signed together for all groups, which complete and improve this law, also incorporating some references to other laws. And finally, there was a possible deal between the groups that we support the government and the CUP with respect to staff, and for the good consent of the law, and because not everyone sees it, so we'll leave it as it was. And I understand that political positioning will make it my turn. And in order to be able to highlight in the most objective way possible some incorporations or some important aspects that we have been able to make between all the groups, and without making political appreciation, only by placing this importance on the table of the programme contract, with a maximum duration of five years and linked to the inter-departmental and inter-sectoral plan of public health; recognition and citizen participation in the council of participation; the adviser council on technical and scientific issues; the organization of the territorial teams, also coordinated with all municipal resources; the periodic evaluation, and this is one of the things that most prominent all the Members, that there was to have been this periodic evaluation of the programs, and also the degree of analyticity, public health. With all this, an innovative aspect, going beyond the Law of gender equality between men and women, and it is that the deputies agreed on the need that it is neither constituted nor renewed the participation and advisory bodies if it is not complete the match, and therefore also advance with this law in matters such as this. And, therefore, without entering into political appreciation, but by putting on the table some of the themes that were more consensual and more agreed among all the groups, this has been the work, the expected work of the committee. And, therefore, with this, to thank all groups again for the girls' contributions, as well as all the people who have been able to collaborate with them. And to wait for this law to come forward and let's all be able to do the follow-up that I'm about to do, because it's something that helps us not only to prevent, but to promote that public salvation helps us also in the day-to-day lives of all people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.124.0	Thank you. The parliamentary groups which have reserved statements to defend in the plenary for a maximum of fifteen minutes will then speak to the remaining parliamentary groups to establish their positions for a maximum of two and five minutes for the subgroup. In the first place, has the word to defend the reserved items of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans the deputy Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.125.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, Counselor. I wanted to say hello to Vice President Aragonès, who introduced us, so this law when you were on leave. Deputies, deputies, company of the agency and public that accompanies us, in the first place, to aggravate their work to those responsible for public salvation. You do very good work, we're not proud and that's why we're so happy to be here today. And, as the rapporteur said, thanks also to all the colleagues, who have done their job very well and helped us very much. Thank you to the rapporteur, as it cannot be in any other way, to make and engage in this law, and companions with whom we have made this journey, short, but at times it has been intense. Thank you to the late woman who is, therefore, later, too, and we have had, well, some questions about technical issues. As you said at the beginning, he wanted to thank Vice President Aragones, who has now left us, but he explained to us the meaning of this law, a law which has a very clear objective, which is to recover the Public Health Agency of Catalonia as an autonomous body administered with its own legal personality, so that he assumes the executive functions assigned in the field of public health by the Health Department to the Secretary of Public Health, and reserves to the secretary the design of policies, planning and execution, and thus leaving in the hands of the agency the technical part of public health policies. In fact, the Law 18 of 2009, of October 22, of public salvation, which was approved unanimously in this chamber, and therefore already counted on the favorable vote of my group, from Ciutadans, completing the integration and reform of public health services in Catalonia, set up a new organizational framework to ensure the maximum degree of vigilance of salvation, the promotion of individual and collective salvation, the prevention of malalty and the protection of salvation, promoting coordination and cross-cutting collaboration. This law of 2009 fostered the fact that the integration of different public health services is done in agile and flexible executive organizations, with the capacity to mobilize cross-sectoral and inter-administrative cooperation, and also to promote community alliances as much as possible. For this reason, it was chosen for this model, for the agency – Public Health Agency of Catalonia –, equipped with management autonomy and with a clearly defined portfolio of services. All of this I think has become very clear and well debated here in this hemisphere a few months ago. As you also know, in the context of the economic crisis, and certainly of other things – I will limit myself, here, today that the vice president is moderating the session... –, these things I imagine you already know who they were, but in any case the Public Health Agency disappears; disappeared 2013 when Convergence closes the agency. And, therefore, we celebrate today, 2019, that the rest we want to open. The law, let's remember, it's been maintained, it's just shut down the agency. As you all know, Ciutadans will be very attentive – that's what I've heard on other occasions – following the work that is also done in this agency, simply to be safe, to ensure that it actually does the Public Health Agency and in no case and in no circumstance more. Today with this law we are recovering the Public Health Agency of Catalonia as a technical body of public health and for this reason we celebrate it, because this is a good measure, in our opinion too, to implement salvation to all policies. As you know, even though we celebrate, there is no doubt about it, the creation of this agency, we want to recognize or at least stay in the question that priority in health laws for Citizens is different. We're betting for the Public Health Agency. But remember that the first law that was discussed in health care was that of Ciutadans, which I carried in this hemisphere, at least I defended it, which was to bet for the most urgent of the waiting lists. I don't know how long ago, maybe already a year ago, or practically a year ago, so that you want to stop this debate; you know that the debate here is always limited: if it's about corruption, and cut the microphone; if it's about priority, then we bother a lot of people. Therefore, we have been pleased with the priority that – and all Catalans have certainly seen it very well too – we were not just prioritising, as we are today, the Catalonia Public Health Agency, but we have prioritized a law to reverse the waiting lists; waiting lists, certainly, too many. Cal, we also believe, in our opinion, to set aside public health issues of the utmost urgency, we have commented here: public health issues, environmental issues – today we have a question from the Socialist Group –; you know that we also have a hard problem with sexually transmitted diseases; we know the hard problem with inequalities in health, these inequalities, and more, that they are territorial; imported diseases, the invasion of risk factors... Therefore, working in this sense. We want an agency under public law for all the guarantees of control that this entails, with full autonomy in its functions and especially not under political interference. In Catalonia, unfortunately, priority must be given to monitoring the intervention of the activity to the problems that we understand to be banal in order to agree or respond quickly to health issues. And that's why in normal conditions Ciutadans, we would accept this technical agility to solve problems, but in Catalonia you know that while Ciutadans, he will not neglect, we will not neglect a governmental structure because it is an insurmountable risk. Therefore, I insist, the agency will do, do the technical part, and therefore count and count with all our support. And in this sense, therefore, I insist, thank you for your technical work, professionals of public salvation. Our considerations, which we undoubtedly maintain, begin with point 2.3, where we were asked to include that the Public Health Agency will exercise its powers of conformity with the Spanish Constitution, with the Statute of Autonomy and with the laws in force, and fully respect the competence of general coordination which, in accordance with the Constitution, exercises the State. Well, any of you will tell me, and I'll give you the reason, that this point is an obvious one. But, well, he didn't accept it, even though it did. And we keep it because we think it's important. I think I remember being told exactly that it was a political, not a legal, issue. But then we saw that this law was delayed precisely for reasons which, under the heading of 'technical', were declared political for other formations that do not support the government. Therefore, we, even though by obvious, believe that especially at these moments, hearing the statements, feeling the whole government, we cannot..., that a law is not submissive, as is obvious, to higher legal institutions. We also wanted to add new skills that have emerged in the field of public health – environmental contamination, food regulation, biomarkers, security, bioterrorism... –, you fear all important, quality, transparency and public assessment, with a map of community health activities. We believe that there are some of them that we may not have been able to..., because we have not reached enough compromises, but we believe that when this law is properly deployed, therefore, you, as most responsible..., no one better than you know what fears are of the highest priority, that you were not in the writing of the original article, but that we believe that you should also deal with the work of infiltrating the day-to-day work. We're sure you will. We also wanted to insist on the structures of collaboration, especially with those of primary care and their actions of community salvation – in Ciutadans, therefore, we believe them essential; at this point they have felt it countless times since this Faristol demanding this – and we know more than ever that they must always be coordinated, therefore, from this perspective of salvation, to all policies, to primary care, but undoubtedly in a cross-sectional way, to teaching, infrastructure, environment, what follows; collaboration and cross-sectional and multidisciplinary work. We also want representatives of new citizen networks and entities every three years. And that's why the 26th, which we're maintaining, was talking about the conflict with who represents the agency's rector council. We want the representation to be of the rights and interests of users and of the different territorial areas, which guarantee fairness between citizens with elected offices, not for people not elected by citizens. In this case, the important thing for Ciutadans is always to meet the needs of the citizenry, not other interests. You know that for us this is a foundational pillar. Merit to all policies and people didn't say. We also insist on the equality of citizens, which is why we wanted to include item 35, which asks, at point 6.2, to guarantee equality and equity between citizens from different territories. Vice-President, Councillor, Members, Deputies, Companies, Agency Directorates, People accompanying and following this law, We were going to be and are with the creation of the Catalonia Public Health Agency, We were going to bet and bet for public health, We were going to complain, complain and continue to complain about the unjust details, especially this spokesman will do it, of the unjust details in the matter of salvation. We are pleased to approve today this technical agency for a Catalonia with a better health system. Much luck to the workers and technicians who will work there, who will work there, in this agency, very uncertain and at your disposal. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.126.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Also to defend the emena reserved for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word now Ms Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.127.0	Good morning. A thank you, to begin with, to the honourable rapporteur, to the rest of the Members and Members of this House, to the delegation and to the rest of the Parliament's team who have worked on this House; a greeting to the Secretary of Public Health, to the Councillor. Today..., we are located, today we are not creating anything; today we are restaurant the Public Health Agency. And finally, to restore the Public Health Agency. The Public Health Agency was created for the Public Health Law in 2009, but in 2014 the Government of Artur Mas, with Councillor Boi Ruiz, and with the support of Esquerra Republicana, dismantled it. It was a convergence of the Union and the Republican Left, together, to the Law of Presuppositions. I say that because sometimes memory is short. That was it. And these majorities have been longer than some remember to rule this country. It wasn't an economic decision, it wasn't a management decision, it was a political decision. Now we get it back too for a political decision. And we are glad that there is this political decision. But this does not cause us to continue to denounce the cynicism of having taken that decision at that time, that political decision, and to have kept it until now, and that there was the unanimous opposition of all the people who work in public salvation or who understand it in this country. I am no longer referring to the opposition of those we have given since the opposition in this Parliament, but to the whole sector of public salvation, which said: "This has been a barbarity, it has not felt, it is not effective and what we are doing is wasting our time. It was a complete mistake, and now we're trying to refer to the path. It will be difficult to recover from five lost years, but welcome all those pleas we have not failed to defend during all these years that it is necessary to apply everything that the Law of Public Salvation, approved unanimously for this chamber in 2009. Welcome, therefore, to the new defense of the laws of consent of this country. Welcome all folded to a change of political criteria of this majority of government. The Catalonia Public Health Agency was created to be an independent body with the mission of being an instrument to improve the health of the population, mainly through prevention and advice in the making of political decisions based on technical criteria. Its dismantling has made it more difficult to develop policies that improve the health of the population from this perspective of prevention and from this perspective of agility and technical criteria. It is very important that we take this step to restore the Catalan Public Health Agency with all the functions given to it by the General Law of Public Health of Catalonia in order to be able to exercise health authority; to be able to strengthen these programs of prevention, promotion, protection of salvation; to be able to promote a focus of salvation in all policies, with the aim of directing priorities not only to the main problems of salvation but to the causes, to the social determinants of salvation. It is to do all this that the agency, we say from the beginning of the processing of this law, must be an executive organization, flexible, agile, with structures that allow to give new answers before us, and they understand that they are local responses to global issues and elements, so that it can manage intersectoral and inter-administrative cooperation, that it can have global and territorial structure and be terrified at each place, and that it can co-governance with the local administration, that it does not participate, not coordinate, co-governance, as defined by the Law of Public Health. As a parliamentary group, we have worked in this process and from our discussions to recover or restore the agency in this sense, with all these elements, with all the good that the agency already had at its origin, and to improve clearly and update and take advantage of the opportunity to put what it was and was not at the law of 2009. I want to value some of the elements that have been incorporated during the processing of this law. On the one hand, the importance that the coordination that exists with the health care system network is especially with the primary care and community care network. On the other hand, these mechanisms to assess periodically the impact on the health of all policies and why the agency has the ability to make proposals to influence the policies that the government and all administrations do in order to be able to continue to influence, impacting on these determinants of the health of the people, the causes of the ills of our people. It has also incorporated itself, consequently with the Law of Equality, which did not exist in 2009, that the board of directors must be joint. It's incorporated... it's gone, actually, it's recovered the participation board, the health boards at the territorial level; it's recovered the advisor board as a consultant on more technical or scientific aspects. More detail has been added to the definition of how the territorial structures of the agency should be in line with the text that was being processed, making it clear that they should be multidisciplinary teams, that they should work in coordination with municipal public health resources, with primary and community care teams in each area and with other public health services or entities working with the territory, because they should take advantage of the entire community network that exists to influence the health of the population and to coordinate it in all these days and in all this richness. We regret, on the other hand, that one of the best that we have done precisely with the one thing we have left alive until this Ple; a better thing that was to become reality, also in the governing organs, right? , of the Agency of Public Health, to what is the reality of what happens, that is that to the rector council there follows the Agency of Public Health of Barcelona directly. Why? Because the Agency of Public Health of Catalonia in Barcelona is the Agency of Public Health of Barcelona; who will do the functions of this Agency of Public Health that we are recovering to the city of Barcelona is the Agency of Public Health of Barcelona. So, we don't have to treat it as a Barcelona Assembly theme, no, no; it's the agency that needs to be in the board of directors. But it is that, in addition, the volume of the population and public policies and of the influence in the public policies of salvation of what is being done by the Barcelona Public Health Agency is essential that it be in the main governance area of the Catalonia Public Health Agency, and not that it is with the logic of the rest of the assemblies and the quota of the rest of the assemblies, of co-government with the rest of Catalonia's municipalism, but with the logic of those who are managing the agency in Barcelona, those who can transfer the experience accumulated during these five years also lost by the Catalan agency and that, in turn, that of Barcelona has continued to function, and those who have the public's direct health expert. That's why we put our goal to separate, respect the eight people that there must be in representation of the municipalism of Catalonia, that can be of any kind of city, village, of the diversity of the municipalism of Catalonia..., and to pose explicitly « there must be a person in representation of the Agency of Public Health of Barcelona. We do not want to, we believe that this can still be resolved, so we have kept the emena alive until today and we are demanding that we give a last thought to the respect of the parliamentary groups and, voting on this, we have incorporated it, at last, if necessary, with a current and urgent deal here, because you have not felt that we have to be the Barcelona Assembly and pass the quota to another Assembly in the eighth place of municipalism, when it is to be the Barcelona Public Health Agency or the Barcelona Public Health Agency. We could have solved this. We didn't do it during processing. Today we still have the option of being able to do so. I'm done. I can't and I don't want to end up, like the parliamentary group, without saying that today is an important step, obviously, but that's no use if there's no assumption afterwards. Our demand is to recover the level of inversion in public salvation that there was before the retail and go further. Because the situation of salvation in Catalonia and of the social, environmental, poor, housing circumstances, of the social determinants of the salvation of the people, are not before the retail, they are much worse. So, we're much more presumptuous in public health now than we had before the retails and, in change, we're still under the levels of the tripartite era. Please, I suppose. We are calling for a progressive but rapid increase in the percentage of the presumption of salvation that is destined for public salvation, just as we have claimed for primary care and for the community. This is the first and only law that the government approves in the plenary in this legislature, that it remains effective, that it serves, that it applies and that it is known, and that is why I assume it. Five years later, we'll restore the agency. There's no more time to lose, we've already lost five years, we haven't lost much, that's known, that applies and that there's a presumption.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.128.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix her position, the MP Assumpta Escarp, of the PSC Group and Units for Forward, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.129.0	Thank you, Vice President. Councillor, deputies, deputies... to greet, again, also, the director of Public Health of Catalonia and the people who accompany us here today. First of all, thank you, the debate and the joint work that we have been able to achieve on the job, also on the technical team, and above all on the job, which has put a lot of patience into it, and that's always very nice. Anyway, before I enter the content of the Public Health Agency Bill, I'd like to make two points. He gave a collaborator in the ponència process, a specialist in public health and a good acquaintance of the agency created in 2009, who trusted that this effort of recovery and renewal of the agency did not stop again. So let me just say a little bit more and we won't get out of it. Now it's been a year since the director of Public Health explained to us the general treats he was bringing us here. It has to be said that the government's project, therefore, we thought that there were some shortcomings, but that the reviews were able to resolve. It is true that at the end of the day we have had to end up in the hands of some bad people – not cursed, but wrongly said – technical aspects of the opinion, which have given a lot to talk about, but at the end of the day it seems that we have more or less to deal with. So we'll end up saying that it's good that it's good that it's good that it's good, because we'd better say that the project didn't start; maybe it was incomplete, maybe we wanted to close all the folds of the big rush, but in any case it's a pleasure for all the parliamentary groups to be able to pull it out. I'd also like to thank all the attendees. Putting it on has made it out of all of them; I think they were interesting and brought us light and knowledge to which we were dealing. The second thing I wanted to do, I think it came out today at the control session, too, and you have to look at the almost nil legislative activity of the Health Council. But today at the session, she's a goddess, isn't she? "The government will approve today the first law of the legislature after fourteen months. Because really much more legislative activity is not in the Health Department either we see, nor the decree of accessibility, nor the law of concertation that should accompany the Aragonese law. We can only see that the structure of the government of health institutions has changed, but we do not see any legislative activities or activities that improve the benefits and care of the citizenry in terms of health. In reality, this first and only law is the recovery of the Public Health Agency of the year 2009, I think that it has been said by the deputies and deputies who preceded me, the law approved for the government of progress, extinguished the year 2013-2014, with the government of Artur Mas, and very well remembered by the deputy Marta Ribas, with the supports that they held at that time. I don't know if it was the time of the Mas - Alicia Sánchez-Camacho pact, I don't know if I'm cool, but more or less we have to move around here. Both from the Socialists and Unions Group to advance as many professionals and public health specialists, the recovery of the Public Health Agency has often been called for, because we believe that it is a strong, resourceful body to coordinate and bring to an end the set of actions of public authorities to protect and promote the salvation of people, to prevent malalty and to take care of the vigilance of public health. It was also recalled that the Law of Public Salvation that continues in force is from the year 2009, approved in this Parliament for unanimity – it was the first in Catalonia, but also the first in Spain ; I believe that only València, that same year, also approved a law of public salvation – a law that gave a charter of normative and organizational nature to public salvation and collected the principles that the State defines as public salvation. Two years have passed, and it is clear that we have not been without agency, so somehow, as we recover it, we adapt it organizationally to the new regulations, but above all that we are back to having capacity, agility and that we are able to adapt and approach ourselves as a changing world; a changing world that means a changing demography, that means that every time we talk about a population... well, basically we talk about a phone change to the age pyramid and chronicity; a world where the poor and the inequities have shown themselves to be great determinants of salvation, where the globalization and the increase of the mobility of people have brought about international public health crises, as well as the vision of the elderly. The environment, the contamination of the environment and its effects on health have also been treated today, also in the control session, when we talk about climate change and the effects it has on health; the generation of unsanitary habitats and additions – tobacco, alcohol, but also technologies – and also incorporate what has brought us globalisation, right? , storms and prevention of nuclear, biological or chemical accidents. We congratulate ourselves, I believe, that everyone, also the Socialist Group, who reborn the agency, does so with clear objectives and ambitions, who works in the network, who is capable of decentralized response, which is cross-cutting and integral, and, obviously, transparency, community and participatory. The agency has to exercise its skills with the local administration. That's clear. The assemblies have competences in public health, and we must seek cooperation, efficiency and respect municipal autonomy. I would like very briefly to mention some of the points that we have put forward, which have been incorporated into the text that we approve today, in any case, which have formed part of the discussion, from the discussion on the autonomy and management capacity of the same agency, which in the end I think we have come to a departure..., but also the need to strengthen and ensure preparedness for prevention, detection and management of crisis and emergency situations, to equip it with mechanisms attached to the programme contract, but above all human and material resources, and this will come later, as will also come later on that it has sufficient presupposition, so that until now the presuppositions have no longer reflected public health as a priority. Recovering sanctioning authority and above all authority, health authority capacity, which is important, and which has created problems respecting the government's own competencies and sanctioning capacity, and which have also been resolved with technical considerations. To establish mechanisms of collaboration and coordination between the territories and with the territories, is to say, a network intertwined with the structure of primary health care and community health present in the territorial area. We have spoken many times about the network, and public salvation must be part of this network. In general, it has been noted that the proposal lacks more relation and references to primary care and community health, and some of the respondents have marked it, and the truth is that it has finally been more incorporated into the text. Some of the phonative aspects. The formation, that the agency also has a phone book as the center of reference in the specialized formation and in the post-graduate formation. We have to have a centre referring to Catalonia on public health and that also works and remains a center of research. An element about the recognition of the Barcelona Public Health Agency, which can be understood to have all my recognition, and, moreover, if we talk about public health agencies, it is previous that of Barcelona to that of Catalonia, and therefore marked the whole model. It is clear that it will exercise its powers in the area of Barcelona and it is clear that the Barcelona Assembly must have a seat in the Board of Directors. There was this difference between Barcelona Assembly - Public Health Agency. We believe that the board of directors must be representatives of the entity of the Barcelona Assembly, of the same joints, of the same way that we demanded that the different types of population and therefore the different types of joints are also recognized, that there are large and small, perhaps mountain and metropolitan areas, because somehow the board of directors was able to collect and assume the different needs. Incorporating civil society into governance, entities related to public health and primary care. Develop the board of directors more and don't trust everything in the rules. Giving import to a part that was in the previous law, in the law that had been suspended, in the part of the law that was suspended, and that here we have recovered, which was to define the territorial structure and the public safety teams in the territory, because we would strengthen decentralisation and proximity and above all cooperation. And last but not least, there has been a theme that has also been discussed by other Members of Parliament, the parity in all organs, from the board of directors to the board of directors or councillors. For the first time we have incorporated into a law that, if you are not equal, you cannot constitute. I, therefore, in a way, congratulate us -en. Agrate the good working climate. And in any case defend the importance of recovering an instrument that allows us to guarantee the maximum degree of vigilance of salvation, the promotion of individual and collective salvation, and the prevention of malalty. It's not the best law, but it's still a necessary law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.130.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, also to fix position, is the turn of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.131.0	Good morning, everyone and everyone. I will try in these five minutes to refer to the Public Health Agency of Catalonia and, for what it does to the agency and its bill, which has been the construction of this piece of work. Yes, as a matter of fact, we would like to make a thank you. Thanks to the informational predisposition as well as dialogue that has existed since the Secretary of Public Health and in a very special way to his most responsible, the secretary, Mr. Guix, that today, moreover, we count on this room with his presence. And we want to do more with a recognizance and a critique. Criticism for the rest of the government or, more accurately, for the rest of departments. We would already like, as in this subgroup, to see the processing that we usually see in this chamber, preceded by a communication, preceded by a dialog, preceded also by a negotiation, which is not always obviously to be agreed, but as in the case of the negotiation, which is at the top and at the top of the parliamentary procedures that we do in this house. In this weighting exercise, this subgroup wanted to take a proactive action before the Public Health Agency's Creation Project. We have already appreciated in the beginning of the process that we thought we were in favour of this project, that we had to force some questions, but we have done this exercise of, through discussions, trying what we thought was better its content. We were going to submit seven papers. Seven items that have finally been incorporated. To a good extent, the same items are also traded with other groups, and it is also a matter of exceptionality or surprise for this group; we find it difficult to find that the total number of items that we are presenting has been incorporated. Thank you also for the predisposition that most groups have had to trade in the contents of which we have been planting. To mention some of the contents of our reviews. Even in the preamble we thought that there was a term that was "multiculturality" that could be interpreted in an equivocal way and, therefore, that had to be eliminated, not because we did not believe in multiculturality but more quickly for the contrary. And the facts give us reason, in the sense that there is someone who is doing racist politics with any small detail, and therefore we considered it appropriate to remove it from the preamble in the way it was expressed. We also wanted to contribute in relation to what is the centrality of the law, Article 3, its objectives and above all the minimum content of the program contract. Also, for another band, part of the reviews have been related to what studies and evaluations can be. Phone question, social determinants. Analyzing the determinants of health is analyzing social determinants and also assessing the elements that may hinder accessibility to community services. And, therefore, not only do a concrete action but analyze results, analyze data and analyze impediments. For what it does to training and research, one of our ideas was to see the need for innovative and effective training and research. "Innovative in the sense that it is very different the reality that existed when the concept of "public salvation" was born than the reality that we have at the moment. And, on the other hand, "effective in the sense that it is necessary, more than training and research has a very theoretical view, as well as practical programming. Another of our discussions also sought to strengthen the rights of workers and workers. It is not a question, but we did want to be very curious to maintain their conditions, to expressly recognize the law of subrogation or association to all legal effects and, therefore, to include all workers and all workers in this protection already from departments and administrative units that develop coincident functions or linked to the object of the same law. And lastly, for what he does to our papers, we have also wanted to make feminist or gender-equal policies. We didn't just want to reproduce that you applied the law, but we fixed how you required it to create and renew the governing bodies, participation and scientists that there are the minimum requirements of the law of equality. And what it means is not a mere invocation of the law, but that these bodies cannot constitute but complete the law and, therefore, overcoming what many times is a mere generic invocation which afterward does not have an objective reality. And, finally – it has not been the object of our discussions, but it is the object of discussion in the debate – it seems to me perfect that it is maintaining the legal nature of the agency's autonomous body, and in the discussion it seems to me more that it adds even more that there is no subtitling to the private right but that we keep the subtitling to the public right. And one last idea, the agency will be fine but it has to go with funding. We can have a good agency without funding and it won't work but we can also have permanent funding that gives purpose to the object of the agency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.132.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.133.0	Thank you, President. To position us in relation to the definite text of the recovery of the Public Health Agency. To remember that the agency, as has been said, was created in 2009 as the executing organ of public health policies, was extinguished in 2014, assuming its functions the same Department of Health in the framework of rationalizing entities and public bodies basically with two objectives: a first, to simplify administration and, second, to optimize resources precisely in a few years when resources were scarcely the result of the crisis situation that is disease, right? And that was, on the one hand, a request that was demanded by different social actors long enough years, also political – also political. The People's Party of Catalonia also required the Government of those years to adopt measures to simplify the Administration, but other bodies such as the Chamber of Commerce of Catalonia, such as the Trade Union of Metges or also the Ministry of Hisenda, which also, precisely to join the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, one of the requirements was to adopt measures to rationalise the Administration. But if today we look at who are the needs of the Health Department and who are the reptes that the Health Department has in front of us, then we can certainly ask any citizen, any public health user who are the main reptes that he considers to be of the Health Department of the Generality and we can find with many elements: from the proper dimension of primary care; from the lists of hope that there is to external consultations, that there is diagnostic evidence, that there is in surgical interventions; the lack of health professionals; and all the working conditions of professionals; the need to recover investments in health equipment, or the need to recover investments in healthcare infrastructure. And, therefore, surely from the list of priorities we would not find the recovery of the Agency of Public Health of Catalonia. This does not mean that it is not a politically shared objective for this parliamentary group. We find that it's a good tool, it's a tool that, besides, doesn't have to assume a major expense. This does not mean that it is not necessary to provide it economically so that it can complete its function, but if its extinction in the year 2014 did not suppose absolutely nothing is left to the Department of Health, as the Union of Accounts has shown in its report, so its installation in March does not imply an extraordinary expense. In any case, from the start we almost feel like we're even lucky, I feel lucky that I could have been putting – not with much participation, now I'll talk about it, then – of this law, because it's the first law, projecting the law of the government that approves this legislature after a year and three months, isn't it? Which thing, so it's almost an important tape, isn't it? But this situation allows me – and I quoted it before – to back up an expression that the Metges union of Catalonia served in 2011, in which I gave it... Metges of Catalonia gave to the government: "Ecculti'm, they intend to reduce public enterprises and entities before you serve care, right? And what I think we've ended up finding is that there's been a reduction in public enterprises and entities, but there's also a reduction in care. And at the time of..., once we're over the crisis and once we're over the administration resource crisis, when we're on condition of getting things back, it's the entities and businesses that we get back before the health services, before the care services. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, but what happens is that the first one up there is the recovery of businesses and entities, not the recovery of health services. I insist, we are in a favourable position, we have not been able to participate in everything that we liked more recently, but we also understand that it is a participation proportional to the importance that we believe the Public Health Agency has in relation to the service provided by the Health Department. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.134.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next is the return of Member Gemma Espigares, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.135.0	Thank you very much. Now, I can take the word to make the political intervention part on behalf of the Republican Left Group, and I start by reminding you that..., I think that all Members are aware of it, but I start by reminding you that what we do is to regain the legal form. I am saying this because the Public Health functions that have never been discussed have ceased to be done, and every time we have more people in our lives, we have more people who need this Public Health, and that, in any case, with Dr. Guix in the lead and all the staff there, they have not stopped doing it at any time, and I think it is important, because despite this change in the legal form, and therefore this change or this law at any time has ceased to be done. And I say..., I give you an example: this week I was running a school post – surely some of you will have rejected it too – that was talking about sugary drunks. And there were a couple of students who had done a lot of sugary beguds and asked the parliamentary groups to rule on... the parliamentary groups and the government, to rule on sugar because they had very negative connotations. And I answered them, to invite them here because we could discuss these issues with the Health Members, explaining to them the things that the agency in their day and that the Public Health Secretary has already done, because we have a tax on the sweet drinks that, moreover, the week that you will have a day of economic analysis and impact of these measures. Therefore, whoever gave it before, not only approve things, but evaluate it and follow it up. And I'm saying this because for Republican Left the health promotion part I think is essential, I think we've said it many times and, more importantly, we've demonstrated it with facts and with the brave investment that the department does in this health promotion part. It is not just because it is profitable in economic terms, because for every euro that the department invests in promotion there are studies that corroborate that four can be saved in healing, but also for people, for which it entails at the level of quality of life. And I give you some examples: in companies that have already started working with work prevention programs, a euro invested in promoting them generates a return of the investment of between 2.5 and 4.8_euros, and that's because it lowers the cost of forbearance, that's because it lowers the body of evils, and that's what the European Health Promotion Network supports and supports it with data. And more than that, when there is a little healthy environment at work, the billing volume can be reduced to 10_per_cent; therefore, also in these terms it is profitable to invest in people, not only for physical, mental, for the whole of the people's salvation, but also because it is profitable. And when we talked to some of the Members about this, we had a lot of hours, because we ended up talking about public safety. And, indeed, we had to remember all of us, often, that we were talking about the law of the agency, because we have great enthusiasm in Parliament on this issue, and I said it myself – I have been four years doing the doctoral thesis on this, and, therefore, talking about the promotion of salvation is passionate to many, but it is important to realize what we did. And, besides, we've done it with great experts and I think we've all talked about it and we appreciate the work. I think it is important that we highlight three things: the program contract, because other communities and other countries are moving forward in this line, and therefore it is this way of assessing and following up; also participation – and some have already referred to it –, and more so with the great social network that we have in this country, and also with the health issues it is very good that we can participate in different forms of participation, and, in fact, they already do so, and in some ways more informally, so that now they also have this formal structure for power-to-do, and that we also incorporate this feminist analysis of the policies of salvation, because we have talked about it in a way that we have talked about PERIS, so that we have talked about this evil, and that we have not touched the evil of the evil, but the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of the evil of Therefore, access to the health care system in women is not always the same and, therefore, in this as well as we pose ourselves. There were two groups that referred to it as the first law or the first bill of law, and I'm not going to tell them that I wouldn't... I'd already have an illusion, huh? , which was the first, but I believe that we must be rigorous, and therefore the five that have already been approved here, that in any case they were amendments, but that they are approved in this legislature, such as fiscal measures, such as the Presidency, such as guaranteed income, such as the Conca and social benefits, are approved in this legislature. The suppression of the County Council of Barcelones, too. Nor that it is for the sea and the mountains and the metropolitan area, nor that it is for the plane of Lleida, that it does not remain in this refrany, the Law of Agrarian Spas has also approved in this legislature. So I think we're carrying some, and in any case – and in any case – this was already coming from the previous legislature. I've done it before, I wanted to thank the job, and all the groups we've come to far enough agreement. In fact, this Member's patience in the papers has been put on the table. Those who know me know that, in patience, little; therefore, if this one that we have had enough consent we have had to sweat until the last minute, now that we take some others that we have from the table that there is so much, I hope that we can also do it with this good thing that we have had. And, in any case, some of the living items that remain, in order to position us, the theme to which Congressman Soler refers..., in fact, you said it yourself, is an obvious saying that the Constitution is to be completed. So this was the reasoning that we did to the question, because the law already specifies that it will be subject to the current legislation. Therefore, as it will be subject to current legislation, it did not seem to us that we should specify what. And, in any case, as if it was always his parliamentary group that asked us for efficiency, when we no longer wanted to complete this and follow another, the legislation in force, we would avoid coming here to do a task, and, therefore, that we were already completing it. That's right, the part that he specified of the reptes, of the actius map, we share the feeling and, in fact, we were able to discuss it, and we ask the secretary and the director to take the repte of the agency that he considered in the regulation, because we think it's important, not because each of the functions is specified in the law, but because it's taken into account. And finally, for the topic of the emena of the professionals who posed the table, what we understood was that there are departments where there are people who are doing prevention tasks of salvation, can be the Department of Agriculture, can be the Department of Territory, and that these people do not only make this prevention task connected to the agency, but also in other cases, and that obviously their place must be the department. In any case, we share with the CUP the need..., or the need to specify that no person will be left out for the change of legal status. Finally, it was said that "I don't know if it's the best law. I don't know if it is, I hope so. In any case, it is one that we have provided among all parliamentary groups. And he remembered or thought: "Welcome to political change. That I made it very clear that Republican Left does not change political criteria. Left Republican, in a moment – and I'm sure you've made it very clear to Congresswoman Ribas – in which the political decision of the Spanish State forced public sector entities to shrink – I'm sure Montoro has given him a little more to play – this government made the cuts they played. And Esquerra, once she's in front of the Health Council, brought this one another time to Parliament. I'm sure I didn't remember him as 155 made this law fall apart in the past legislature. Thank you, Members. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.136.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Josep Riera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.137.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, secretaries, authorities and professionals of the Department of Health, if everything goes as it should go, soon the Public Health Agency of Catalonia will be a reality with its own legal personality. As has been said, we have completed the work here to restore the Catalonia Public Health Agency. And the first thing that I'd like to do is to be grateful to all the ponència companies for the good way we've worked during all the sessions, even though we're stuck at some point, especially in the final part. For my part, I must appreciate the help I have had in which my first participation in a question of law in this Parliament has been, and also what I have after that in both the subject matter that deals with this law as a legislative practice. For all this, many thanks Gemma, the pontiff rapporteur, Assumpta, Marta, Jorge, Vidal and Santi. And so is the caste. Thank you, Esther, for working and acting. It has also been said that the Catalonia Public Health Agency held its own legal activity and personality from 2009 to 2014; from 2009, with the unanimous approval of the Law of Public Health, promoted at that time by the Councillor of Salut Marina Geli. From this rostrum, on October 14, 2009, the councillor said: "It is the law, no doubt, most important since 1990, ten years after the approval of the Law of Health of Catalonia. And I probably was right. These two moments, in 1990 and 2009, marked decisively the model of salvation of Catalonia. That is why, Mrs Vergés, you will now advise, first of all congratulations on this Law of the Public Health Agency that we will approve today and encourage you to continue working to strengthen all the structures that have made the Catalan health system a consolidated model and to imitate for many others since many years ago. Your job, you know, we all know it, it's very important, because everything in the system is about strengthening it. His decisions are fundamental in this sense. And the decision to return the Public Health Agency is a good decision. And I hope we left him a good law because you do the job he has to do in the best way possible. Before I go in to talk about the contents of this law, I would also like to express the real reasons for the reversion of the Public Health Agency on October 2013. If we have memory, we have truth, and Mr. Rodriguez fortunately has had a little more than some others. Let's remember that it was an economic context, let's say, complicated, without having emerged even from the deep economic crisis. And, in the same context, for example, before we spoke in this Ple along with the external payments of the year 2013. But the reason for the agency's reversal was not simply economic. In this sense, also a little more content about how public money is managed, or not public money. And at that time, in 2013, the economic rationalization measures imposed by the Spanish Government, in the hands of the People's Party, of Minister Montoro, entailed the obligation to limit, to reduce, in fact, the number of autonomous agencies of the Generality, and the Public Health Agency was affected, but it was not extinguished: it kept the name and continued to function, while having lost its own legal personality. As is said in the preamble of the law, functions, objectives, personnel, assets and assumptions will be attributed to the department competent in the matter of salvation. The Public Health Agency continued to feel the promotion and protection of individual and collective health and prevention and the management of epidemiological and food alerts in Catalonia, in a different Catalonia, with different needs for territorial and social reasons, but fully integrated in a world every time more globalized. The function of the agency at its origin, and now also, has a lot of meaning, because it goes from what is more local to what is more global. Also said Constellera Geli in 2009 here: "We are part of a global world and, therefore, we cannot underestimate our own local capacities; local and global at the same time. In fact, most public health regulations are European in scope. Most of the life styles, of which we wear, of which we eat, as we walk, as we ride in cars or on motorcycles, are curiously world styles. That was 2009, but now, 2019, it's even more pronounced. We were reminded by Dr. Antoni Plasència, director of the Barcelona Global Health Institute, and who was director of the Public Health Agency. In his appearance for the elaboration of the pose he spoke to us of public greeting without borders and of multilevel reptes, from the local level to the global level. And since we are with the contributions of the fellows before the members of the ponència, I would like to recall some of their observations and contributions, in the form of reflections or concrete proposals, which seem to me to complement today's debate on what the Public Health Agency should be and as a guide to the development of the law. The same Plasència recommended that it was an executive organization with its own legal personality and management autonomy, and pointed out that the form of an autonomous administered body for which it was chosen was not to the detriment of this agility of functioning that it had in the previous stage, in which it was a public entity under private law, observation that we also had ex-counsel Marina Geli and others appearing. That's why we discussed this issue and we've tried to make sure that the end option doesn't go to the detriment of this agility and flexibility you need in an agency of this kind. More contributions than worth having present here today. Ex-Counsellor Marina Geli, apart from the things I have already mentioned, spoke to us about quality, fairness and efficiency, as well as guiding principles; recommended a holistic view of what public health is, and set as an example an innovative concept: taking public health into account in urban planning, because the two things are related. In this sense of open mind, he also recommended the treatment of very diverse data to draw conclusions that can have an impact on public health both to detect problems and to focus solutions. Alba Brugués, president of the Association of Family and Community Nursing, made us touch a lot of ground: she put emphasis on prevention and made it very clear to us, in her words, that the problems of salvation are social problems. And, in this sense, he claimed the speciality of infirmary in community health, with a very clear given: 80_percent of the social determinants in health are out of health care care. About social conditions we also talked about Josep Maria Corominas, on behalf of the Catalan Association of Municipis, as well as the need for programs to the schools on public health. And I'd like to end with two reflections by Jordi Baroja, president of the Catalonian Public Health Society and the Balearics, two concepts that seem to me to be fundamental to hearing what we're doing. His first reflection was: "The agency is necessary and urgent to reverse inequalities. And the other – and I also want to point out that both the previous one and this one serve me as concluded in this position of my group – was: "Sanitation saves lives from one to the next; public salvation saves thousands, but all two things, effectively, are very important. So much good in these two areas is working the best way to preserve a model public health and health system. And from here we'll try to get old. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.138.0	Thank you, Congressman. You finish the speeches, we're calling for a vote. [[Long break.]] We called for a vote. We'll start voting. First of all, we will vote on the reserved items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which are the items number 4, 26, 33 and 35. I think it has been asked that the fourth can be done separately and then a block with 26, 33 and 35. Really? [[Pause.]] And then we will vote on the technical papers, signed by all the groups, and finally, in the same vote as the technical papers, the opinion. Let us, therefore, vote first on the reserved issue of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group number 4. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 38 votes to 73, with 17 abstentions. They see that there is a vote, which is what we have not been able to introduce into the system, which is that of the deputy Anna Caula. We will now vote on the points..., or the papers, forgive, more well said, 26, 33 and 35– 26, 33 and 35 – of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Therefore, the vote begins. These three items were rejected by 38 votes in favour, 90 against and no abstentions. We are voting now on the issue number 24, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 8 votes in favour, 81 against and 39 abstentions. We are voting now on the rest of the text of the opinion, with the technical elements incorporated, which have been signed, as we say before, for all parliamentary groups and sub-groups. We're voting... the vote's starting. The Catalonia Public Health Agency's Creation Bill was approved by 127 votes in favour, against and against. Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day... [[Greetings.]] Excuse me, 128 votes in favour, which in this case did not add up. [[Ask the Government about facilities and access to ports]] [[300-00158/12]] Let's move now, as we say, to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about facilities and access to ports, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. Asks the honourable Member Elsa Artadi. When he wants to. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.139.0	Okay. Very good morning to everyone. Members, Members, Councillor Calvet, today, from Junts to Catalonia, we wanted to make an inquiry about access to ports in Catalonia, because we understand that the ports, not only to Catalonia, but to Europe, today have ceased to be starting points, points of end, and have actually lost unbreakable walls of inhumanity. In Catalonia we have always had an extensive European vocation, because we have seen an opportunity for freedom, democracy and well-being on the continent. But today, certainly, the Europe we are seeing is not the one we have dreamed of, nor much less than what we are aspiring to, but what we are seeing is that Realpolitik, the pragmatic policy, the policy of interest and inhumane of many governments, is imposing itself and is not fulfilling what is to be the fundamental values of the treaties of the European Union; that is, respect for human dignity, for freedom, for democracy, for equality, for the state of law and also respect for human rights. That's how they call it back, but I don't know if today we can be talking about respect for human rights when we are allowing, because that's what we do among all of us, that thousands and thousands of people come to the Mediterranean, to a Mediterranean that has turned into a death pit for anonymous people who don't fill headlines and who don't seem to care about anyone either. Europe has established quotas for refugees; refugees fleeing violence, partly because of decisions taken by the same European countries and which few states have completed. Of course, the Spanish State does not, which has not completed, which remains it to complete more than 80_per_cent, despite the fact that the legal compromise remains valid and unthankful – in the Spanish case – that there is a Supreme Court ruling. It was tried what was named Operation Sophia, to fight against the migration mafias and the trafficking of people, which went on prolonging since 2015 and which this year remained without ships, precisely what we had to do, which was to be patrolling, because Europe, again, decided to abdicate its responsibilities, decided to abandon refugees and migrants, with a shameful decision. What is Europe doing? What it has done is to donate thousands of millions of euros to Turkey, to whitewash the Erdogan regime, a regime with a regression in the rights, so that I stop the flow of migrants, so that so many routes and so that I accept expulsions in warm, violating and violating human rights. What the international legal order says is that countries must commit themselves to creating safe lives for refugees; what we are doing, from Europe, is paying third parties to prevent and stop refugees from arriving. As a result, the dead in the Mediterranean rose by around 40_per_cent. And as it turns out, we have about eighty-thousand people trapped in the Greek islands, who are collapsing, who are in subhuman conditions and who, only yesterday, we learned the decision of the Greek government to close the ministry that had to worry about these families. Because, in fact, Europe is doing what it is doing is subcontracting dictatorships, subcontracting what is the continent's migration management. And the most scandalous case, Counselor, is that of Libya, where European countries are allocating hundreds of millions of euros to strengthen the capacity of which we can call "the coastal guard or the warlords to intercept refugee boats, immigrant boats, detain them arbitrarily, indefinitely, in an authentic hell of torture, abuse, sexual trafficking and slavery. And that we all know, which is happening, because the same European Commissioner for Migration says: "We are all aware of the terrible and degrading conditions in which migrants are found in Libya, but in change, nothing happens. In the last weeks, in the last months, the media focus has been placed in the camps on the border between Mexico and the United States, thanks to the work of activists, journalists and politicians. But here there is no denunciation of what is going on in Libya, which is exactly the same or worse. We don't know if it's because migrants instead of being Latin are Africans; we don't know if it's because instead of trying to get into the United States they're trying to do it in Europe, because clearly it's not because the conditions are better: only last week, because of being bombarding these camps, drawings and drawings of people died. Countries of the European Union have agreed up to thirty-five countries to manage and delegate migration policy, half of which are dictatorships: with Niger, with Mauritania, with Senegal, with Mali, with the Txad, and – the strongest of all, surely – with Sudan, that its president is being demanded by the International Criminal Tribunal for war crimes in Darfur; and with him we also have agreed to manage migration policy. This is the policy of European countries, lacking transparency, lacking shame and lack of humanity. And we're all allowed to. And, as a friend of all this political indignity, now it looked like a year ago – and it looked like, in the past – that there was a little light when Mr. Pedro Sánchez, who had just chosen President of the Spanish Government, gave welcome to the ship Aquarius, obviously after media, social and political pressure, obviously surrounded by cameras and photographers, but he did. As a result, he himself, in his Resistance Manual, self..., gives the importance of having saved, he, 630 people, of having saved their lives. But we see that this resistance, this Resistance Manual, has lasted for a while and that it has been absolutely committed to European necropolitics, where the people who arrived a year ago almost all still have no definite status; where Matteo Salvini congratulates and applauds him to block the exit of rescue holes. And it is that Pedro Sánchez has held up to six months of Open Arms rescue ships at the same port of Barcelona, here, at our home. And it was June 26th when the Open Arms, in a unilateral way, decided that he was leaving, that he couldn't take it anymore. And Mr. Pedro Sánchez's reaction, what was it? Send him a threatening letter that, if they carried out maritime rescues, they could have a fine of up to 900,000 euros. I remind you of what the London International Maritime Rescue Convention says, or the Spanish law says, 14/2014, and it's that it obliges..., it's not that it allows, it's not that it suggests, it's not that it encourages, no, it's that it forces to help human lives in peril at sea. And the government of Pedro Sánchez that's telling them is that if they do that, they'll fine them and look for them. From here, too, from Junts to Catalonia, we wanted to wish all the fortune to the pocket, the great pocket that they are making, to the ship that is now before Lampedusa and to reiterate the support that has already been given to it on other occasions. [[Some applause.]] And it does not seem, precisely, that the future of Europe or the future of the Spanish Government in these policies changed. And if not, let someone explain to us why Josep Borrell is on the way to being, to being at the forefront of European diplomacy, that to us seems a terrible news; the person who qualifies the United States as the only thing they have done is to kill four Indians; to see ministers in Nigeria dressed as a colonizer and as if they were going to a safari; to leave interviews when they ask them not to like him; to spy on European citizens with public foundations of the Spanish Government. Yes, sir, all a diplomat, all a humanist; things will change a lot. That is why, counselor, you also know that Catalonia has had a history of being a land of asylum, of being a land of settlement. Unfortunately we also have a history, and we all have, in our families, that we have exiles, that we have refugees. Surely that is also why the Catalan society's cry is clear; it is a strong one in favour of ending this humane crisis. That is why, Counselor, we want to ask you what actions can be taken by the Government of Catalonia; how can Catalan ports be made available for humanitarian actions, Catalan ports for maritime rescue actions; what, in your opinion, is the response that the Spanish Government, the Government of the State, is giving, and how can we press it also because it changes these retrograde policies and the violation of human rights. Counselor, the motto "We want to put together cannot be just a phrase, cannot in any way be just a banner to a balcony; it must be realized. Please, make it possible. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.140.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet, is responsible. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.141.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, honourable Members, honourable Members..., many thanks, honourable Member, Mrs Elsa Artadi, for this question, which is very dense, very deep. I will try to make some of the measures that can be taken by the Department of Territory and Sustainability, and by extension of the Government, but obviously the situation that you have described goes beyond us and far beyond the same department and the Government. And it is based, I would say, on the humane situation that we are living all over the world, obviously, of emergence, also climatic, in the following five cases, of people who seek, therefore, better opportunities, ultimately being able to have opportunities of life, and on our role in the world. We are responsible for a small part of the mon, but we are also the world, and indeed we have always been a land of concentration. Saving the distances, the advisor who speaks to them..., his bird came from Velez-Blanco, to Almeria, also looking for opportunities of life and therefore, surely, an environment of much more freedom than the one he could live in the society of Almeria that he left in his moment. I, therefore, yes, accumulating land. But Europe has actually seen this allu migration of historical dimensions. You yourself have spoken of figures, of geographic situations..., thousands of people creating the Mediterranean every day, playing life, with precarious boats, and more of this situation gets worse with the arrival of good weather, because there are those who are excited to get out predicting that the situation can be more placid than on other occasions, but the Mediterranean Sea, therefore, is far from a placid sea; it is a complicated sea, in which meteorological conditions can change much, much more so. We, as on other subjects, have felt a lot of alone respect for the Spanish State, huh? With this will to be a land of gathering, with this cry of "We want to gather, and let us not forget that we have heard ourselves very alone. This morning we talked about climate emergency, we regretted the lack of support for the Climate Change Law. I want to remind you that you did not withdraw the appeal to the Constitutional, and we finally had a feeling that mutilated you, but in any case, on this subject we also felt very and very lonely. With the arrival of people immigrating to the cost, we have felt like orphans, once more, with a state – you too perfectly explained this – that you did not compromise yourself as you should have done. Apologies have been expressed all along, but the main and recurring one is that of the competitions. Talking about competitive issues when what's at stake is people's lives seems like a disproposal to us. We will not deny, once again, the good forms, the good intentions, the same recovery of the State Fund for the Integration of Immigrants, which was recovered by President Pedro Sánchez last March, after a decade without the government laying down a single euro. Everything I want to see with aesthetic and imaging operations... well, with this, Pedro Sánchez's government is actually effective and effective; they seem to be the kings of the pose. A little parenthesis: As long as it's written of government that doesn't rule, we're here ruling every day, but since the 28th of April elections, months have passed and there's no one here who's a mulli, huh? We, like political space, from Junts to Catalonia have already expressed our willingness to favor a government between PSOE and We can actually make you put the batteries and there is someone else in the table to rule, also to talk about Catalonia. I return to the subject we are dealing with in this inquiry. People are dying in the Mediterranean, and we, from Catalonia, have raised our hands because we want to do things; we want to do things, the government. Councillor Alfred Bosch from the Department of Foreign Affairs has led a joint action by all government departments to be able to do things. And if we're talking about competitions, we need to talk about four moments in which we need to act. First place, rescue on the high seas. You, Mrs Artadi, referred to a Catalan NGO, Open Arms, of which we are all, in fact, proud, and explained their situation, in fact, huh? , the deal embarrassed that at this time is coming from the government of Pedro Sánchez ; also, therefore, from other NGOs, such as the German Sea Watch. But, in any case, once the rescue has taken place on the high seas, there is the entry into Spanish jurisdictional waters, the landing at the ports and, in later term, the management of the people who are in this situation of humane emergence, the management of these people are once on the ground. And here many actors – many actors – come together, four different moments and many competitions spread across many actors. In any case, in the landing at the ports is precisely where the Government of Catalonia, and concretely the Department of Territories and Sustainability, has things to say. The two ports of general interest, Barcelona and Tarragona, are managed for the State. We already know that what we do is designate the president of the board of directors, the members of the board of directors, but they are managed from Ports of the State. But there is a network of generality ports that, as we have offered, could have a role in this humane crisis. We talk, therefore, about people, we like to talk about people, not about competitions. Let's talk about giving these women, these men, these families a new chance of life. We believe that the port system must be an economic engine – that is, I repeat, we repeat it many times – but it must also be a social engine. And it is in the service of the activities of the territory and its people, which is an economic motor, and it is, therefore, also making us available to the management of these humane emergencies, which is also more social motor. From the Catalan port front, and in the strict competition of the Government of the Generality, the ports likely to collect rescue ships, preferably, are the ports we call "industrial": that of Palamós, that of Vilanova and the Geltrú and that of Ràpita, that of Sant Carles de la Ràpita. And this later, that of the Rápita, would be a question of what would have a greater availability of installations for which we call "catch points". The port of Sant Carles de la Ràpita has 1,822 points of sport mooring, of which 324 are managed directly by the public enterprise Ports de la Generalitat. The port also had a commercial dock, so much for a camp, huh? In order to install, therefore, what are the installations necessary to be able to collect, it moved a total of 7,891_tons of goods, with forty-one ships, the year 2018, and also had two sweepers for the maintenance and repair of ships. Therefore, installations are available. These three ports – I referred more specifically to Rápita, but also Palamós and Vilanova and Geltrú – have infrastructure and port services so that they can accommodate rescue vessels. We are therefore prepared – we are prepared. This, however, as is well known, is not a Schengen port, unlike the ports of general interest, Barcelona and Tarragona, which we have been seeing for a while. It has been years since we have claimed, for sure, that the port of Palamós has what is called "a border inspection point, which allows us to be able to do so in order to agile – Schengen area, I refer – the procedures linked basically to the Creuers. This circumstance, the fact of not being Shengen, should not be an impediment in order to be able to collaborate with the ports of Tarragona and Barcelona, given the connectivity that exists between them, both road and rail. So, you see, we're not holding hands, we raised our hands, and through that statement we made on February 5th, huh? , of « Catalunya, port sure, led from the Department of Foreign Affairs, but logically complemented at more concrete level, and also more technical, for the Department of Territory and Sustainability and the public enterprise Ports of the Generality, precisely that declaration agreed to offer the ports that the public enterprise manages, I repeat, Ports of the Generality for the arrival of ships that fans of rescue to the Mediterranean, for the arrival of ships that worry us, because they are the ones that carry these people that need conditions to continue with their life plans. The result of the same Agreement of Government, of this February 5th that made it the subject, was to create an interdepartmental working group– Public Security, Civil Protection, Health, Ports and Immigration – which in coordination of the actions and which was reunited for the first time on the 15th of April. And the coming week, July 19, seven days from now, will do it again; a new meeting of this interdepartmental working group. This working group, I explain once again that they belong to the Department of External Action, competent in this matter, but some of us from Territori have been involved from the first day, for this realization of the physical solutions that can be made available. We want to define scenarios and protocols, scenarios of the situations in which we can find ourselves, in the three situations that I have referred to the principle of my intervention – rescue, entry into jurisdictional waters and permission, therefore, to download to the port – and concrete protocols for each of the situations with which we can find ourselves. We can find ourselves with ships that make these rescues, but we can also find ourselves with ships, therefore, industrial, merchants, which are found in situations where this emergence must take place. Or we can find ourselves with ships that have the ability to use in the Dueport, which is a technical question to ask for entry to the port..., so they do the corresponding protocol, but we can find ourselves with other situations where the emergence is higher than us and, therefore, it is necessary to enter again. We can find ourselves with situations of fondeig, of catch... In any case, scenarios and protocols that make reference to the ports with which we can count – I repeat, Palamós, Vilanova and Ràpita – ; from which amount of people would have to activate the rescue protocol, and then how we would act in the matter of immigration, public greeting, security and communication. In short, we raise our hands to be part of the solution and not part of the problem. Some people get to be part of the problem and block; we want to be part of the solution. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.142.0	Thank you, Counselor. All right. So we suspend the session until two-quarters of the late four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.143.0	Well, good afternoon. MPs, MPs, vagina are sitting at your escons, please. Let's resume the session. [[Decree of 11/2019, of 4 June, amending the seven-year transitional provision of Law 3/2008, of 23 April, of the exercise of the professions of the sport]] [[203-00019/12]] [[The third item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 11/2019, of June 4, amending the seven-year transitional provision of Law 3/2008, of April 23, of the exercise of the professions of sport.]] [[According to Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Councillor of the Presidency will intervene in the first place, to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. It has the word, therefore, the Counsellor Mrs Meritxell Budó. When he wants to.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.144.0	Thank you, President. On 16 April 2018, the Parliament of Catalonia unanimously approved the Law on the Exercise of the Professions of Sport, which, among other objectives, expressly established which are the professions of sport in Catalonia, regulating the basic aspects, determining the qualifications necessary to exercise them and assigning to each profession its own professional scope. It was an expected law for the collection of workers and workers in the world of sport, which would give them their own identity as a professional sector, and at the same time, it responded to a mandate from the Parliament of Catalonia, reflected in the Vuitena additional provision of the Law of Sport, approved in the year 2000. Prior to the approval of this law, many people had held professional competitions, related to sports specialties and modes, through a wide variety of lives, which progressively, over the years, were opened up in the labor camp. They were people who were developing and performing functions on the basis of an acquired experience without, however, having an official and regulated title. Faced with this reality, Law 3/2018, of 23 April, of the exercise of the professions of the sport in Catalonia, dedicated its transitory disposition first to the professional exercise without the title required for the law. In concrete terms, it envisaged that the titling requirements which lay down did not affect the situation or the rights of persons who, when they entered into force, believed in an effective manner and under the conditions laid down by the Rules, who exercised the professional activities regulated therein. The same transitional provision provided that these persons should register 'in the Official Register of Professionals of Catalonia', which was created for this purpose. In this regard, and in order to deploy the transitional provision before commenting on it on a regular basis, Decree 107/2009 of 14 July 2009 was adopted, which regulated the process of enabling the exercise of the professions provided for in Law 3/2018. In this way, a procedure was organized that allowed those persons who had been working professionally in this area, before the publication of this new law, to continue to exercise. And it had a period of validity that ended on 31 December 2010. It was intended to give a broader term of time, so as to achieve the knowledge and compliment of the law on the part of all the actors involved: professionals, sports clubs and entities. It is worth saying that, since the very entry into force of Law 3/2018, the sports administration, through the Formation Area of the Catalan Council of Sport, has carried out a pedagogical and awareness-raising task of the technicians and professionals affected by the norm, in order to obtain its inscription in the Register of professionals of the sport or also its collegiation. And the sector has been informed of the need for compliments on the requirements and obligations known and stated in this legal text. Despite this, and bearing in mind that there was a very large number of professionals who could not regulate their situation within this period of time, at the end of 2011 a first temporary suspension of the entry into force of the sanctioning regime was established, which lasted until the 1st generation of the year 2013. However, always seeking to give a longer period of time to achieve knowledge and to achieve the compliment of the law on the part of all the actors involved – professional, clubs and entities – and also, always in agreement with the demand of the same professional sector, with the aim of preventing the creation of informal unemployment or infringing incompetences, have been considered opportune new temporary suspensions of the validity of the sanctioning regime applicable to the fact of exercising regulated professions without the required title or without registering 'in the register of professionals of the sport. Thus, Decree 6/2012 established a _second moratorium up to the 1st generation of 2015; the Decree Law 5/2014 did not establish a third, up to the 1st generation of 2017, and finally, the last, up to the 1st generation of 2019, mediating the Law 5/2017, of 28 March, of fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures. These successive moratoria, have allowed the Administration to have the procedures and the formation in order to have the different collections, which still require an additional time to adapt their situation and request their incorporation in the Official Register of Professionals of the Sport. Despite this progressive regulation of different professional sectors related to the field of sport, it should be borne in mind that Law 3/2018, of 23 April, of the exercise of the professions of sport, left out of its scope of application professional activities and not merely sports, such as that of rescue and rescue. Therefore, the rescue collection was exempt from the obligation to formalize its registration in the Official Register of Professionals of the Sports of Catalonia. The formation of a utilitarian water rescuer, the non-sport, was regulated by Decree 95/2000, of 22 February, for which the sanitary standards applicable to public use pools, modified by Decree 165/2001, of 12 June, are established. This changed in 2011, when the Ministry of Education regulated the training of sports technicians in rescue and rescue, both the professional utility and sports, with the approval, in their day, of the Royal Decree 878/2011, of June 24. They unified into a title, from sporty general rule teachings, linking to the initial and middle-level initial and final cycles in Rescue and Rescue, general competence and professional, personal and social skills. From the Catalan School of Sport, it was found that the strict application of this provision did not include many of the titles of people who were exercising in the field of water rescue in swimming pools in Catalonia, for which reason, through the Law 7/2015, of May 14, which amended Law 3/2018, incorporated in its scope of application the professional rescue and water rescue in all its competitions. This legislation came into force on May 2015, although, on the basis of the constitutional appeal lodged by the Spanish Government, its application was suspended for five months from March to July 2016. Since then, continuous and repeated measures have been taken to facilitate the adaptation of the situation of a large number of professionals to the regulations in force, in the case of the rescuers, in force since May 2015, both for the provision of training to access the ROPEC and for the suspension of the sanctioning regime. Moreover, various departments of the Administration of the Generality have worked together to facilitate this inclusiveness. I speak of the Català de l'Esport Council, in training offer, diffusion in social networks, meetings with the agents involved, request to the Department of Education to incorporate the new test of access to cycles of the month of generation, etc. I also speak of the Department of Education, the authorization of our centers where we share courses of cycles of rescue, incorporation of the new call of the proof of access; I also speak of the Catalan Institute of Professional Qualifications, with its calls of accreditation of skills of rescue, or of the Servant of Occupation of Catalonia, with the approval of centers to impart the Certificate of Professionality of Relief. For what he does to rescue professionals and rescue me in natural aquatic spaces, given that the rescue profession and rescue me enters within the scope of Law 3/2018, they have the obligation to formalize his registration in the ROPEC. Royal Decree 878/2011, which regulated rescue and rescue training, places the general competence and the personal and social professional skills of rescuers in the natural environment in the middle of the final cycle. The year 2017, the General Secretary of Sport and Physical Activity, issued an internal instruction, in effect until October 31, 2020, that allows the rescuers of swimming pools that can also exercise on the beaches. The purpose of this training, in addition to being able to cover a possible lack of rescue professionals for plagiarism, is to give time for the October of the year 2020, everyone who works as a rescuer in the sector of plagiarism completes the regulations in force for the training and exercise of the profession. As a result, the decree appears to be the most suitable legal instrument for establishing a new moratorium, at the same time as it requires this processing. On this occasion, it relates exclusively to professionals, for which it does rescue and rescue me aquàtic. Finally, and before this intervention is over, I would particularly like to thank the spokespersons of all the parliamentary groups for hearing the arguments, in this case, obviously, very technical, which have led to this approval of this decree, and this request that we make, on behalf of the Government of the Generality, which is validated at this point in the order of today's Parliament. Many thanks, Mr President; many thanks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.145.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then we move on to the interventions of the parliamentary groups to determine their position. And in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Javier Rivas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.146.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselors, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to all. Look, last week I was in a village of Lleida, on the flat of Lleida; the sun is perpendicular, i.e., thirty-nine degrees are not thermal sensation, they are real, and it is a really insufferable heat. It was a town, the typical town, wasn't it? , which has an entrance roundabout, a large avenue. And it caught my attention because it was specially decorated, though in Lleida, in the world..., in the inner Lleida, that's the usual thing, isn't it? All the paired headlights had an announcement of the Circo Raluy and the odds had stellates, had plastics, had banners. Well, it was kind of the usual, wasn't it? I wasn't about this, but I had to talk to the city manager and I took the opportunity to ask him what I thought about this, about the pool rescuers, about the problem that we're having right now, right? The truth is, the man got a little high on me, didn't he? It's just that we don't stop setting standards from Barcelona, it's all difficulties, it's all problems, it's all problems, it's that a rescuer, it's that this is impossible, the assembly has no money to pay this salary... And the man put himself to me..., came a moment that almost asked me a question that was a challenge, right? "To see what you're going to vote for next day, because, if not, what I'm going to do is close the pool and it's your responsibility that the children, at 40 degrees, in the summer, can't go to the pool. The truth is that they are questions that do not generate answers, but generate more questions. Mine are other, aren't they? Mine are: for three thousand euros costing a lifeguard all summer an assembly would be able to close a pool? Doesn't that town have the right to have a pool with guarantees, with security? Can't your parents send their children to the pool in peace that they are in the hands of a professional? I think they're other questions, don't they? I won't go into any other evaluations, because I believe in municipal autonomy, right? But, well, ruling always means prioritizing. And I believe that what was spent there on plastics and laces and other decorative stresses exceeded more than three thousand euros. Of course we do not need to say that our parliamentary group is by the pool and by the rescuer, rather than by other things; our priorities are other. Eleven years ago, as the Councillor explained, a law on the professions of sport was passed in which aquatic rescuers were already included in a transitional arrangement, because it was already observed that it was a somewhat complex topic because it was rather like a historically socio-sanitary profession and that it was included, correctly or wrongly, but they are, within a sports profession that included, therefore, the whole set of requirements, including registration in the ROPEC, right? Well, eleven years ago. With these limbs, then, we have come to this day, until 2019, that the government tells us that, more or less, about ten thousand rescuers are needed and that in the ROPEC we only have six thousand registered, which I do not think is true either, because there will be a lot of people who have signed up for the ROPEC five or six years ago and are no longer active in this profession today. But, well, we're not going to discuss figures; what's obvious is that we have a lack of this kind of top professionals in a country that we do mostly or our first industry is tourism, right? And I believe that we do not have to compete in low-quality price tourism but in quality and value-added tourism, and safety, on the issue of water rescuers, so I think it is something that gives it a lot of added value. I think it is an indispensable and very respectable profession, but it is that the sector has problems, it has very serious structural problems, right? It is a very seasonal work, short – most people two months, July and August –, poorly paid, little recognized, derives an important responsibility, that of saving lives; you need to train yourself for three years doing a training cycle to then work for two months charging a thousand_euros, the days are marathon; they lack authority, then they spend the day arguing with irresponsible bathers; the equipment is often insufficient; the control of occupational risks is insufficient. Then, can the Generalitat be surprised that it convenes 397 training places and that only sixty-six people are enrolled to access these courses? I'm not surprised. Anyway, why don't you surprise me? Because we have turned this profession, which is important, which is necessary for our society, into a very unattractive job, right? We have a problem that is multifactorial with the sector and that we have to solve with structural and very cross-cutting measures. And there, I do have to tell you, counsel, to count on all our help for everything you need to solve this problem. What is the government doing to resolve this? Well, I don't think much, just to say nothing, do I? I thought today what would bring us, given the problem in which we are immersed..., would bring us a shock plan, a strategic plan of the whole sector as a whole. But no, what brings us is an easy solution, is a suspension of the sanctioning regime through a decree, like a super-emergency thing. See, the world doesn't work that way. It's as if you're going down a road and they're saying, "You've got to move a hundred miles per hour. And I ask: "What if I go to one hundred and eighty? – No, it's okay; we're not gonna fine you. The world does not work that way; the laws are to comply with them, the sanctioning regimes are dissuasive. I understand that you're selling this to us like we're in summer, that we're not here, and then we have to make solutions to the desperate, like this is a misfortune. And I totally disagree there: it happened to go out on the street and have a meteorite drop on your head, but in this we have been eleven years since the law was passed; there has been time for the sector to adapt itself. And this isn't an extension, it's the fourth extension. And next year, if nothing changes, we will move markers: it will be the fifth of twelve years. Einstein said if you want to get different results you don't repeat the same things. And here we're doing nothing but kicking the ball forward. We have a deep sea problem. What this decree brings us is to legalize insecurity. And we can't agree there. And also humanly I think it's a mockery for professionals who have indeed made the effort for three years to get the right degree and now you're telling them that they're on the way out just like any other, on equal working terms, right? I think it's unfair and they don't deserve it, don't they? Let's learn from the mistakes. Life, I think it's trial and error, right? This model is not working for us and we have to correct it. How? Among all, no fear, no lukewarmness. If we have to change the law, if we have to change the training, if we have to change the collective agreements, let's look at the whole sector and look for real solutions that don't patch up or kick the ball forward. With this we will get to have our beaches, our swimming pools with the proper, safe, 20th century services, right? I invite you to make laws that are useful, and if we are wrong on the way, we correct, that nothing happens; rectifying is wise. Montesquieu said that useless laws weaken the necessary ones, and this is necessary. The problem is not solved, I do not even think it is being resolved; what brings us is a decree of the kind of fear or death, and it has always seemed like an absurd joke to me, is it not? and that is why we will abstain in this vote, because we do not consider it. It will be coincidences of life; yesterday, while I was preparing this intervention I had on television and they made a chapter of Game of Thrones 1, that of the Seven Kingdoms, which was quite fixed on the Iron Island, that these - they caught my attention because they are coincidences - venerated a god that they call "the god of drownings, and they did a rite of initiation that some were already standing directly with God, right? We are from the Mediterranean, and what we hope of this government is that it will do much more than it is doing, because at the moment all we can do is ask Poseidon to be benevolent to our bathers, and that does not comfort me. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.147.0	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Next, for the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Forward Units, the deputy Óscar Ordeig has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.148.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Councillor Budó, Councillor, members of the Government who are accompanying us today, from the Socialist Group and Forward Units we will give support to this Government..., and, "to this Government, to the approval of this decree. [[Greetings and remorse.]] You liked it, didn't you? [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] I repeat – I repeat – we will support the Government's proposal with the approval of this decree, and we will do so first of all by giving thanks to the companies and entities of the sector, who work with rescue and with water rescue, who came here to Parliament, they brought their concerns to us, also to the professionals of the sector, who have also come here to Parliament and have brought their concerns to us, also, that this moratorium is being done, and, of course, the collaboration to reach the point of approval, if it is validated, this decree. Therefore, the call to listen, the call to act. That's what we did. We are not satisfied; we will support it. It is also obvious that we are grateful for the receptivity of the Government, the Catalan Council of Sport, which we have obviously asked for data from the rescue workers, the demand that there would be, the problems that we could have this summer at the beaches and swimming pools, and, therefore, also the Catalan Council of Sport, and, naturally, the same Councillor of the Presidency, which also, in our parliamentary question, here, there was a compromise to try to focus on this and if it was necessary to make a timely, extraordinary moratorium only for the scope of the rescue workers, in order to solve the summer season, which I believe was an important problem that we had to solve. Therefore, this moratorium of the sanctioning regime for the rescue professionals and rescue me of the beaches and pools of Catalonia gives an answer, gives a good answer, gives a narrow answer, to the concern for the lack of rescues that we would have had, to the nine thousand professionals that we needed this study, and from this we were doing the debate also, just entered, at the gates, of the summer campaign, that were impossible to cover with the nine requirements of the register. Besides, we all know that there's a great rotation of rescues every summer at the beaches and pools, a lot of people who are entitled to rescue, but obviously they don't care about working, for what they are, and so we could have problems here. A lack of rescuers who risked the safety of bankers at beaches and pools throughout Catalonia a few days, as I said, before the start of the summer season, and which could cause serious problems and harm to the tourist sector, a very important economic sector of the territory, and obviously to all the joints or practically all the joints that have municipal pools, and that everyone wants to keep the facilities at hand, with the security measures and the rescuers that correspond to the regulations. And for the same rescue, because this also generated a defence or a judicial responsibility for the fact, in the event of an accident, that it was not registered and that, therefore, it could cause them problems. Since the parliamentary group, we have said, as we have said, that the Law of Sports Professions, its importance, its validity, a law of 2008, has been approved, with the Secretary General of Sport, at those times, Mr Niubó, and that, therefore, we also have in value, and, in fact, the law is in force; we are looking at some exceptions and we hope, yes, that it will be the last time. Why is the Sports Professions Act important? Because it is necessary to regulate sports professions, it is important because sport and physical activity have a very important impact on people's health, as well as an important economic and social impact, and it is necessary to establish a few minimums or to establish a few minimums of training and also a few minimums of control because the content of the law is complete. And this is also done; part of this law envisaged creating this register of sports professionals with all the guarantees, with the ultimate objective of guaranteeing the highest quality not only of the professionals but also of the practice of physical and sporting activity in the country, in all its forms, at the conjunction of the territory; therefore, to lie down and adapt the sport practice to the conjunction of the people and also to become aware, with this law, of the great complexity of the sport world, of the great diversity of disciplines, of the great diversity of people working in the world of sport and who can also adapt it. Therefore, this moratorium until September 30th, we hope that it will be the last, an exceptional moratorium, a moratorium of general interest, to ensure the safety of our beaches and swimming pools. And also..., we also give some dues to the Government so that we can plan better the demand for rescues for the coming season, so that we can speed up the approvals of the titles, so that we do not go back to this coming season, and establish a format system that is fast and flexible enough, so that we can already say that each formation or title has its own uniqueness... so that a system that is fast and flexible enough to cover every year the demand for new places that we need. Because in this every year we have this problem in greater or lesser measure. Therefore, they also take into account that there is a high percentage of people with the title who are not interested in working for different reasons. It will also be necessary for the Government to devote resources... – also very important, because these concerns have also been brought to us –, to devote resources to control and enforcement, when the moratorium is over, to plagiarism and to swimming pools so that the working conditions of the workers are fulfilled, because here there are some complaints, that there are the necessary rescuers, that they have the required title and that they are in the register, and also that the working conditions of the rescuers are fulfilled: salaries, timetables, the need for rest. That's what the rescue world professionals have gotten us, too. Therefore, so we support the decree, hoping that the necessary measures from the government will be taken to ensure that we do not need to approve any more moratoria. And lastly, before we finish, obviously we will be in place..., there has been a popular legislative initiative to make a new law of sport; we will all find ourselves to reflect on what the model should be in Catalonia, and surely some of the contents that we are here today will also come out, we will have to debate, we will have to present papers, we will have to make appearances and we will try to make a good law, a law of the country, which helps to boost, to give a good boost to our model català. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.149.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. Next, for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, the deputy Concepción Abellán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.150.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. We are faced with a decree to amend the seventh provision of Law 3/2008 of 23 April on the exercise of the professions of sport, the basic content of which, in short, seeks to establish a moratorium in the sanctioning regime regarding the enforcement of this law in the field of rescue. Obviously, we will give support, but not without first making some basic considerations and, why not say so? , critical, because we believe that this moratorium has been made by pressure from the employers of companies in the sector and from the back to the workers; it does not solve the fundamental problem, and it does not establish a change in the optimal regulatory framework of the sector. It's a patch. A patch, it seems to us a patch because it does not attack the root of the problem, because it will remain a sports sector, and it is not. A sector that has much more to do with civil protection and security than with recreational activities. An activity that is without specific regulation and without a legal framework of its own. We agree with this moratorium because of urgency, given the dates on which we are, being already July; but this cannot be continued. We need to put order in a precarious, unvalued and out-of-place sector within the current legislative framework. Catalonia is a preferred tourist destination in the state and one of its biggest claims, even if we don't like it, is the sun and the beach. And we must establish a regulation as it exists in other autonomous communities, in the Balearic Islands or the Canary Islands, which includes a legislative figure that, in collaboration with local administrations, regulates and establishes the basic requirements for rescue on the Catalan beaches. This decree only pays attention to the employer, and with a precarious exit to a shameful situation. There are no rescuers, yes, but what conditions do companies offer to work on them? We are talking about beach rescuers, who live in precarious conditions full-time and in bad conditions, without only means to be able to work in optimal conditions. They watch from old chairs, without watch towers that meet the basic conditions for someone who spends ten_hours in the sun, with old materials and without being provided elements to perform their function properly, elements as essential as a sunscreen. In most cases, even labour risk prevention regulations are not complied with, and we fear that they are often provoked by the same Administration, with competitions that contain conditions that directly affect workers, ten-hour days and wages below the inter-professional minimum wage. From our parliamentary group we understand that the sector must be regulated by the Department of Interior in terms of functions on the beaches, provide for a legal regime similar to the rescue workers and also have a clear framework of labour relations with a collective agreement. So let's hop in and work together with all the sectors involved: rescuers, government, local administrations, maritime rescue. And let's look for a real solution to put an end to insecurity, insecurity and instability in the sector. So let's repeat: yes to the moratorium, but let's take into account the workers, since so far they have been turned away, and let's sit down to look for a regulatory framework for the sector that guarantees decent conditions, regulated training according to their activity, consideration of beach rescuers as emergency professionals, that they are recognized work and social. And I would like to conclude by stressing something very important: the workers are not only up there sitting in a chair to watch the coast; they are there protecting us and saving the lives of all those people who for thousands of reasons suffer perks on the beaches. So let us become aware and also take care of all the people who take care of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.151.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, for the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.152.0	Good afternoon. To advance that the sentiment of our vote will be positive, in favour of validation, but at the same time express that we are not resolving the problems that exist around rescue and water rescue; we are simply facing them at the next summer or at the next season. With this validation of the decree we will have suspicions, for a band, the requirement of title and registration to ROPEC, to the official register of professionals of the sport, and the penalties that could be derived for companies or legal persons that do not indirectly complicate with these requirements in the contract of workers and workers. Of course we have a conflict now. See why, if we keep the demands, there are roughly between 1,000 and three thousand workers who would not be having a compliment on the legality and the corresponding sanctions. And, for another band, if the companies or legal personalities that develop the activity want to give compliments to the regulations, we would find that there would not be enough workers and workers and, therefore, that so much we like the majority of Catalans and Catalans, that it is to be able to go to the plagiarism or to the swimming pool calmly during the summer, so we would not be able to do so. But really with the suspension that we will validate today of an article and a partial part – of another article, rather than avoiding sanctions for companies, we will have the same problem again in the next season: that there will be workers and workers who do not have the title or corresponding registration to the ROPEC. Therefore, we should ask ourselves what the problem of foundations is in the sector. And for this parliamentary subgroup the problem of foundations for the sector is the organic precariousness that it consolidates. Job insecurity, for a band, expressed in seasonal activity, low wages, hard working conditions and lack of professional recognition. It is possible that there are now some MPs who think: "And as the CUP will transform this from seasonal activity, when are we talking about helpers? So look, counselor, we'll convey to you a proposal that you can share with the Councillor of Teaching: these professionals, many formats, all of them and all of them – in fact, the core of today's issue is this – they could, outside of the season that they do rescue, give preventive training to primary and secondary centres and, therefore, become workers and workers for a short time, between two and four months, in order to be able to have a regular activity of due to eleven months perfectly and, therefore, to transform the seasonal nature of the sector into a non-seasonal nature. We also want to point out that the main person responsible for this precariousness is the Administration; the Administration that chooses, in general – with some exception – to outsource the service and that when you leave, the activity does not include, in a general way, minimum working conditions or minimum economic conditions as to what workers and workers are to charge; and they could do so. This, in an activity that does not have a suitable collection suitable and specific for the sector, also transforms precariousness. And we want to signify it – with all the knowledge of what it means sometimes to signify, also – other responsible ones, who are a good part of the companies that manage it. And we're not all companies, but we're a good part of the companies that run it. Because they don't only give compliments to departures, which would be a precarious situation, but in a good part of the assumptions they incomplete departures and, therefore, have a reality of permanent lawfulness; departures and labour regulations. This means many times that workers and workers who are originally hired, which is a part of the sector, so they make a minimum complaint and their season is over or they are not screened the following season. I, for the combination of workers and workers, who work forty hours a week– normally work sixty or seventy hours, not forty, a week– cover a thousand euros; that the forty-hour workdays are the exception– the week–, and we are normally at seventy; that it is not complete the rests, between day and day, of twelve hours, or that it is not complete the day and half– that in fact it is two days– of weekly rest. Add to this, as well as another element regarding the appropriate means of work. A rescuer or rescuer cannot work in a single chair; with this we are causing injuries for today and injuries for tomorrow. Therefore, we should be clear here, but we should also be clear about the job inspection, which sometimes is doubtful when we actually have a job that is adequate and does not generate injuries. And lastly, it will not be or are not yet the competence of this Parliament for occupational diseases, but we would also need to transfer to the State that makes an update of occupational diseases. There are indications that there are two or three new diseases that we would have to recognize the sector as professional and today we still don't have them recognized by the state. If we manage to have a sector with decent working conditions, no one doubts that with this problem we will never find ourselves again. If we do nothing, the year came, on these dates, we would be exactly the same problem, because we would have a sector that is absolutely precarious. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.153.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of MP Esperanza García, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.154.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, you started your intervention saying that this decree was an adjunct tool. I deny it to the major; I think it's an emergence tool. And it's an emergence tool because it responds a little to the legislative technique of the standard piece. That's to say, we find ourselves in an emergency, an emergence to the beaches and to the entire Catalan coast, and even to the public pools, right? We have a lack of professionals in the field of rescue who can exercise... according to the normative forecasts required for the exercise of sports professions, which is where this task was included. And to avoid risk situations – because in the end we're talking about this, about risk situations on the coast – so that's what this decree is, isn't it? So it's not an adjunct tool, it's an emergence tool. We have found ourselves with situations where the same municipal pools have not been able to open their installations due to lack of rescue and rescue services, and then, in the middle of the summer season, they opt for this decree, because the situation is of urgency. That said, we will not oppose this fourth moratorium, as other parliamentary groups have already said, but we do need to reflect. We're sorry about the problem of having the moratorium served again, and it's going to continue as a usual legislative technique, isn't it? And I think the real problem is that we have a law, a law on the rescue of plagiarism, which is from year 72, no more or less than from year 72, to the margin that applies, so, specific forecasts that apply with the regulation of pools, and also the last, which is what you have thought, that is the Law of Sports Professions. So, the problem is not that article, that of the single case, which annulled the Constitutional Court doesn't do much and which caused this automatic suspension of six months, because you made a little attempt to throw pilots out and blame them on a third, of this emergency situation that we are experiencing today. So the epithet of the problem isn't this, it's not the cancellation of the single claim, it's just a lack of specific regulation for many years, and it's done that in the same sector, it has very determined characteristics, so it adds to the situation until it gets to the point where we are, isn't it? So this urgency and this decree, I think we should think about it. Because the last attempt that you have made – the last – is precisely a law of sports professions... We do not ask ourselves whether the rescue tasks have more to see with certainty than not with sports professions. And, besides, because you have had an attitude of permanent government inhibition, you have chronicled the problem. And it wasn't just this government, but the previous ones, that were of the same color. That said, if the last law, which is that of sports activities and professions, has had any series of effects on the sector, what are they? – and that's what the professionals in the sector say. The first: that regulation complicates even more – complicates even more –, makes it difficult to find rescuers. Why? Because, among other things, the main problem is homologation. Then we'd have to think what we're doing with the approval of the title. And, moreover, it does not take into account the problem of the territory, which is that we sometimes talk about the capital, and we do not take into account that the territories still face the most difficulties, even if they find these professionals, but it is not – nor does it – take into account the characteristics of the sector, which is of seasonality and precariousness. We wouldn't object, because the situation is of urgency, but it's not much less the adjunct tool to solve a problem that's already chronified.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.155.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Next is the return of Congresswoman Núria Picas, for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.156.0	Thank you very much. Members, Members, today we approve a decree establishing a new extension to prevent the water rescue and rescue sector from being subject to a sanctioning regime that would leave no protection to our country's swimming pools and beaches. That's right, we're here to put a piece back on a wall that's been on the table for a while and at which cost there's a solution. And that's the responsibility of everyone, not just the current government, because we've been running it for years. Therefore, we reapply a temporary suspension regime for this professional sector of the sport, and that, if we do not do anything to change things, the very first is to get back to the same problem until this suspension ends on September 30th of January. I insist, this is not the first time we have to set up a suspension of this sanctioning regime, and it will not be the last time if we follow this, since there is no provision for it to be resolved once and for all the professionals of rescue and water rescue who have the training required of them. And maybe here's where the problem is, where it's required. Perhaps what it is about is to reflect and adapt to what is required. The title of rescue and rescue pertains to the field of physical activities and sport, and can be taken from the special rules; it has a duration of 1,155 hours spread over two cycles, the initial and the final cycle; the initial cycle has a duration of 495 hours, the final cycle, 660 hours. The band of the two courses, Catalonia requires to register 'that ROPEC, that the ROPEC is the official register of professionals of the sport in Catalonia, and it is certain that there are a good number of registered, in this case, but not all of them are willing to work this study, for the reasons that it is– professional, staff of each school–, and it is certain that being at ROPEC is a good way, a very good way to keep it regulated, but we think that it would have to improve this formula, because the day of the lack of staff in Catalonia is alarming. So, today we don't just have to approve this moratorium, but we have to replace ourselves with a reflection of the foundations that you have to provide to deal with this problem with solvency. It is obvious that it is a work of great responsibility and requires rigour – we are talking about the safety of people – but it is really necessary that in order to be able to help the people interested in realizing this task they have to attend a minimum of 495 hours, as in the least, taking into account that most of these people, mostly young between a dinosaur and twenty-one years, this work does not take it as a work of the future, but is it a work, therefore, temporary, complementary or seasonal? And, I say again, despite the responsibility that it entails and the rigour with which they must develop, so their work, the training that they require, we think it must be a dynamic formation, because it is a sector that does not aspire to be a work for life. We cannot, therefore, plan their training without taking this parameter as the central axis into account. That said, as the Councillor explained, 2008 was an important step, aiming to improve the professionalization of sport, through Law 3/2008, of 23 April, from the exercise of the professions to the sport. It's been more than a decade. If we've seen that there's something that's left behind, in the band of normal changes that go along with the passage of time, because there's a structural front, it's not a conjuncture. And we don't just have to stay here; also, from this deep reflection that we have to do about this sector, so that we need to boost an agreement that rules the salaries of the platja rescuers, as it already exists with the pool rescuers. So, and finally, we can't wait for the year that you see to repeat the same situation, to put a thread to the needle and find a solution to normalize this issue that we are dealing with today, because our children, our girls, ourselves, our friends and family can enjoy our coastline, our beaches, swimming pools and natural spaces in our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.157.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Elena Fort, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.158.0	Thank you very much, President Costa. Councillors, Members, Members of Parliament, the Government approves and leads to validate before this Parliament this Decree to amend the seven-year transitional provision of Law 3/2008 of 23 April 2008 on the exercise of the professions of sport, so as to extend until 30 September 2019 the period of suspension of the sanctioning regime applicable to certain administrative offences and to be until 1 January 2019. The Law 3/2008, of 23 April, of the exercise of the professions of the sport, which has as its object to regulate them and establish the requirements and conditions for their exercise, initially left out of its scope of application the formation of rescue and rescue, and thus the collection of rescuers remained absent, among others, from the obligation to formalize their registration to the ROPEC, Official Register of Professionals of the Sport of Catalonia. In 2011, the Ministry of Education regulated the formation of rescue techniques, mediating the already mentioned Royal Decree 878/2011, and unified the functions of the sport technician in rescue, establishing at once the title of sport technique. The year 2015 is published the Law 7/2015, amending the Law 3/2008, which will incorporate the profession of rescuer to the professions of the sport, in compliment of the state decree, regulating the formation and, therefore, establishing the obligation of these to fulfill all the legal requirements identical to the rest of the sports professions. In this Law 7/2015, also, and in order to facilitate the incorporation of the sector of water rescuers, it was included a Sisena transitory arrangement to suit all professionals who until now complete the requirements of the Antique Decree 95/2000, for salutation, and enable them to incorporate them into the ROPEC as water rescuers in swimming pools. It is to say, all people who until the last quarter of 2016 have training as a rescuer can incorporate into the ROPEC as water rescuers in pools whenever they believe in training and experience two time exercises before May 31, 2017. In 2017, the General Secretary of the Esport issued an internal instruction in effect until October 31, 2020 that allows pool rescuers to also exercise in platges. The purpose of the training, in addition to being able to cover a possible lack of rescuers to the plagiarism, is to give time for this October 2020 everyone who works as a rescuer in the sector of the plagiarism completes the regulations in force for the training and exercise of the profession. In parallel to all this regulation and rule since 2011, as has already been repeated, a temporary suspension regime has been agreed for the duration of this sanctioning regime provided for in the event of failure to meet the requirements of the exercise, a suspension that has been extended on various occasions, as has already been said, with the aim of always facilitating the adaptation of the sector to the new requirements, and, in parallel, the authorization to make the training of all public centres with private ones that have been entrusted to it, including in the category of the SOC of access tests, the authorization to make the formation of all public centres with private ones that have been entrusted to it, including the authorization of the administration of the regulation to the whole territory. Thus, the result of all this mark, according to the data of the Catalan School of Sport, in March 2019, there are 6,163 registered persons at the ROPEC as rescuers; 700 persons attending the official initial cycle training; 245 attending certificate of professionality in rescue; 368 with certificate of professionality pending registration; 200 in enrollment at the ROPEC, and 340 graduates and graduates. To these must be added the helpers who work directly in the public sector and who, according to the Law of the exercise of professions, do not have to be registered to the ROPEC. According to the Català de l'Esport Council's Sports Equipment Cent, there are 1,792 installations in Catalonia that require non-securitistic vigilance; 1,027 installations that require a rescue_sol and 281 installations where two or more rescues are required. If the opening hours do not exceed eight hours and tank one day and a half, it could be given to all the swimming pools in Catalonia with 1,589 rescues. That name, if it's doubled, if they set up, for example, two turns... we'd need 3,178. In addition, according to Salvacat's study, carried out for the Catalan Federation of Rescue and Rescue, a maximum of 950 rescuers are needed to the beaches of Catalonia. With all these data, it is clear, as at the theoretical level, that there should be enough help to meet all the needs, but the private sector says that there is no help available. These companies have stated that there are not enough rescuers to be able to respond to the needs of the beaches and pools during the summer season and that for this reason they are obliged to contract mostly foreign professionals, it seems that, in principle, with sufficient knowledge, but that they cannot regulate their situation to ROPEC for different reasons, among others for non-homologable titles or foreign shipments denied. The next example would be, for example, the report that this same week made public the UGT and the SOS Rescue platform about the lack of rescues to Catalan landings. We have trained people, but we don't have any help. We are faced with a situation that is responsible for various causes: difficulties in adapting to the regulations, insufficient regulation of the requirements of the activity to the landings, as they have said, the law of 72, and, especially, there has been a disruption of the market; the great competence of the private enterprise makes it bursting preus. Temporality, the harsh working conditions and the great precariousness of work, for the responsibility to be assumed, are decisive elements to scare – between comets – future rescuers. Also, it is obvious that from the government to ensure the safety of people who are used in installations, enclosures and platters. And, before the sector's stated situation and so as not to make it worse, it can only extend the suspension period one more time until September 30th, the summer season is over and with the benefit that this measure has to make it easier for all the necessary places to be covered. For some time now, and especially just before the beginning of this season, the business fabric of the rescue and rescue sector is calling on the Sports Administration to abolish the regulations that oblige rescuers to be registered with the ROPEC in order to be able to exercise as professionals. It must be stressed, however, that, if the priority of the Government is to ensure the safety of all and each of the users of swimming pools and platters, they must be very strict in the training and accreditation of professionals, as established by the rules in force. Therefore, make a serious reflection with all the agents of the sector – private companies, Catalan federations, departments of Work, Education, Interior, Territories and Health – in order to achieve a project of regulation of the rescue. We are aware, on this line, that the government's will and the staff of Councilwoman Budo is to work there immediately once past this summer deadline so that the next year we will not find ourselves having this debate. That's what we're gonna have to replace all of us. For all these reasons, we will vote in favour of the validation of the law decree. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.159.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. We'll take a minute to ring the bell. As the Member has not exhausted her time, we did not call for a vote. To recall that, according to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the Law Decree and the votes denied are in favour of the repeal of the Law Decree. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.160.0	We have called for a vote, Members and Members... According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, we shall now proceed to the vote, and it is understood that the votes affirmed, as you know, are in favour of the validation of the decree, and the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. Let us therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. Decree Ill 11/2019_is validated by 88 votes in favour, against and 38 abstentions. According to Rule 158.4 of the Rules, once the decree has been validated, I have to ask the chamber whether any parliamentary group wants to process this decree as it does, as the bill does. [[Pause.]] Don't you? Therefore, Decree 11/2019 is validated, which will not be processed as a bill. [[Proposals for a resolution on the creation of a commission of study on sexual abuse of children and the creation of a commission of inquiry on cases of sexual rape reported at school]] [[252-00017/12 and 252-00018/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution creating a committee of study on sexual abuse of infants. Before we begin the debate, I would like to say that, in accordance with the agreement reached with the previous Board of Spokesmen, the substantial motion for a resolution will be discussed jointly with the motion for a resolution setting up a committee of inquiry into cases of sexual violence reported in school centres, which appears as the next item on the agenda and which has been presented, in this case, for all parliamentary groups and sub-groups. At the end of the debate, we shall have two votes, for each of the two motions for a resolution on the creation of committees. We will begin the joint debate, we say, setting the position; we will add the speaking time, and there will be a single turn of two minutes per parliamentary group and, consequently, of five minutes for the subgroups. It has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Elisabeth Valencia. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.161.0	Thank you, President. I want to begin my intervention by regretting and condemning the last case of sexual abuse in Palamós, where an eighteen-year-old has been arrested for raping a 13-month-old baby. Go ahead our appreciation to the pediatricians of the Hospital de Palamós who detected the abuses and to the staff of the CAP, also of Palamós, our gratitude for the work they do day by day. In cases like these, such as the one I have just enumerated, for the victims, for their families, for a just and advanced society, where childhood receives true protection, it is more necessary than ever to bring this debate here. Our children must be the first, and every new case of violence against children we know is a personal, family and social tragedy. We are debating and voting on two proposals: a study committee and a committee of inquiry. Citizens is a signatory to both, and there is no doubt that from Citizens we will reach the end, we will analyze with the mechanisms we have all the procedures and see what is failing. Because, as the victims and their families say, year after year, we keep hearing new cases of sexual abuse. We cannot and must not continue in this line. We have a moral obligation, therefore, to end this social catastrophe of sexual abuse, and we must work together, united, assuming all our responsibility, in particular the Government of the Generalitat, which has the executive function. And we remind the Government of its responsibility and lack of progress in key areas of prevention, detection and treatment of such sexual abuse. Unfortunately, we have data that still worry us a lot, and we know for UNICEF and Save the Children..., one_of_each_two cases of abuse has a minor as a victim. These statistics are inconceivable for a society that is considered just and advanced, and we must work to reach the end and solve this issue, because one more abuse against our children is a great catastrophe. Violence against children has devastating consequences for the physical and emotional health of our children, causing trauma in adult life, and child protection must be our priority, in accordance with all the principles contained in laws and conventions. And I reiterate the commitment, my particular commitment and the commitment of my group to work in every possible space to solve one of the great problems that our childhood has today, which is violence. We want to tell the families who have all our support and recognition, in addition to our collaboration, using all the means at our disposal to end this trauma. Precisely because of this commitment, two years ago we introduced our law for the detection, prevention and treatment of these sexual abuse in children, a law that, by the way, was blocked by groups that support the Government. For two years now we could be working on this law, which aims to increase protection for children in situations of violence, because currently the protocols to combat these sexual abuses and treat them are not working, the workers do not know them sufficiently, and what we intend to do is to give greater legislative status to these protocols with a law to enforce them. As I say, we could have worked on these aspects for two years, if it had not been for the blockade of the independence groups to our law. They have finally supported our law this legislature, but they continue to block it in its processing. Another aspect of our law, which we are going to attach vital importance to also in these committees, is interdepartmental coordination and the Single Register of Abuse, two issues that we consider to be key to combating these abuses. The inter-departmental committee that was set up to analyse inter-departmental coordination in cases of abuse should meet on a quarterly basis, and we have no record of these meetings; we have said this on many occasions. As I say, coordination between the departments of Health, Social Afers, Interior, Education, and the unique registry are very important to prevent and detect these child sexual abuse, because, giving a concrete example, the baby who unfortunately ended up dying in Pineda had visited the emergency service several times; the protocol could have been activated, but it was not done by a computer error. With regard to the single register of ill-treatment, an issue which, as I have already indicated, seems to us to be fundamental in order for different departments to have access to the record of this minor, I would like to remind the Government that the creation order is from 2007, and has not yet been launched. It took them ten years to launch the Single Register of Child Abuse. Have you really not had time in ten years, this government? Another issue that seems to us to be of justice, on which we have worked in Ciutadans, is the recognition and accompaniment of victims of sexual abuse. From our group we have promoted different resolutions so that we can give institutional support to the victims and send a clear message from the institutions, repulsing these abuses and any form of violence against children; it seems very important to us. In order to accompany the victims, it is urgent that the Children's Act, which is 2010 and has not been deployed, should be implemented once and for all. Nine years without deploying the law. It is a shame what is happening in this Parliament and in Catalonia with the social laws and the lack of their regulatory deployment. We would also like to highlight the need for awareness-raising campaigns on the existence of sexual abuse and all forms of violence against children in the media; it is very important and is not being done. We too will continue to work on this line and on these campaigns. The importance of awareness-raising, the training of professionals and the creation of trusting environments also seem to us to be of paramount importance in preventing, detecting and dealing with these child sexual abuses. In our law we also collect the Barnahus model, a space where the victim will be in a trusted environment, with professionals to make their statements, and which aims not to duplicate interviews and not make the victim pass through an endless and duplicate judicial procedure, causing him even more trauma than he already has. This model is already being implemented in successful Nordic countries. As you see, I have listed different aspects that we will deal with both in commissions and in the processing of our law to shield minors in cases of sexual abuse, and also to shield them from any form of violence. I would like to end by recognizing the work of families and the different entities working to eradicate these sexual abuses. Thank you for your effort, really. They have my commitment and that of my group to help them, get to the end and analyze what has been done wrong and correct it. In addition, we will promote in our law aspects that seem to us to be fundamental to ending once and for all this scourge of any form of violence against children. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.162.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the return of Mr Raúl Moreno. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.163.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank the presence of people representing entities working in the field of child protection, and also some of the victims who accompany us today from the guest gallery. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Set of Legislation that develops it assigns to children and adolescents the right to be protected from violence and oblige us as institutions, as public authorities, to take measures to ensure that this protection is real and effective. On March 6, the Ple of the Parliament of Catalonia approved an institutional declaration to support victims of sexual abuse. The text, signed by all parliamentary groups, condemns attacks and abuses against children, expresses solidarity with victims and their families, asks the competent institutions and bodies to act to prevent and denounce them and condemns the attitudes that they intend to remain grave to acts committed by some priests. Moreover, the statement also asks the Church to communicate to the ordinary justice cases of possible sexual abuse of which she has knowledge. The result of this statement, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, also with a group of other parliamentary groups of this chamber, we designed the content of a committee of study on sexual abuse against minors, with various objectives: with the aim of analysing the existing protocols on sexual abuse, its development and its incidence; to analyse the interdepartmental coordination of the different councils of the Generalitat de Catalunya; to detect the possible consequences arising from the application of existing protocols in the school, the reading, the oce, religions and sport, among others, as well as the formation of the professional ones; to seek out mechanisms for the detection and the approach of sexual abuse in cases of sexual abuse. A committee of study designed from a wide perspective, which wants to study abuses independently of the environment where they are produced. A commission that wants to count with specialists in matter, with a final report that rigorously analyzes what we do and what I propose to do. This is one of the proposals that we are bringing to the House today and that our parliamentary group will be gathering. Subsequently, the House approved, by means of a motion, the creation of a committee of inquiry into sexual abuse in the school environment that our parliamentary group is collecting and collecting. We have already said that we were more pleased with the fact that the object being investigated is not only focused on the educational sphere. This committee lost the wide-ranging look that we think we need to look at as parliament. We could have gambled to make a single commission, whatever it was for the parliamentary economy, but it wasn't possible. At the same time, I would like to express to you the commitment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to move forward with this committee of inquiry that will analyse how the protocols are working at the schools, what happened and what was the management that has been done since the Generality in cases of sexual abuse reported by various students of schools in Barcelona, and to clear the political responsibilities, if any, of those responsible for outside the education council, among others. Child sexual abuse is a form of hard abuse that is very difficult to detect. One_of_each_two reports of sexual abuse have a minor as the victim. According to data from the Mossos d'Esquadra, 29_percent of sexual assaults are minor; 766 minors in Catalonia reported abuse, and 243, assaults during the year 2018. And this is just the tip of the iceberg since only a 15-percent of the cases end with a complaint. Most people don't see them, they don't report them. Sexual abuse occurs between an assailant and a victim; in most cases the assailant is known and relies on the victim's trust. And here's one of the main problems, the missing denunciation. The victim often does not understand that it is about a situation of abuse, does not just hear how and why it is produced with the person with whom it trusts. The complaint, therefore, is produced when the youngest is already an adult, when he has the ability to analyze what has happened, the consequences he has had for his life and when he feels taken or taken to make it public. We're in front of a scab that marks the lives of the victims. And the best way to avoid sexual abuse is prevention, a concept so important for any social policy and so absent, for another gang, in these policies. The protection of children against this form of maltreatment requires measures to be taken to prevent, detect and diagnose it, and to intervene in a coordinated manner so that children or adolescents who have suffered from it are treated appropriately to recover. The Greuges syndic pointed out in his Report on the Rights of Children of the Year 2018 that child sexual abuse has multiple dimensions: for one gang, a criminal dimension, with consequences in the judicial and police fields, and, for the other, a social dimension, and especially in cases in which it is produced within the family sphere, and affects the right of children's salvation with consequences throughout their lives. And it's basically in this second dimension, the social dimension, that we can do a lot with legislative power. In fact, our laws already protect minors who suffer from sexual abuse; now, so that the execution of power brings them to term. And here the balance is no longer so positive. The Law 14/2010, of May 27, of the rights and opportunities of childhood and adolescence, known among other things to bring new years without regulation and without presupposition, previews already the creation of a service of specialized attention to children and adolescents victims of sexual abuse. It was established that this service should be created by the competent department in childhood and adolescence, which should be old for prevention and active detection of sexual abuse of children, as well as promoting good practices of prevention and continuous training of professionals. Nine years later – nine years later – the latest information we have is that they have a scrap of what this service should be like and that if the assumption allows us to have a pilot test by September, if a decree that appears to be in process was finally passed. No one is missing from another gang the importance that the case of the marists will have in the case of the commission of inquiry that today we will take to the vote. I would like to remind you, however, that I was missing the unit that today the groups expressed towards the creation of this inquiry commission when we asked from this Parliament that the government is personified as a popular accusation in the court of the Marists. It was October of the year 2016; together for the Yes vote there two times against in less than five minutes, and all the votes against, the majority of the parliament was imposed. It was also the year 2016, in the framework of the set of actions that were undertaken with the motivation of the complaints of sexual abuse that arose to the Barcelona Marists that was created the Interdepartmental Commission for the Impulse of Effective Protection before the Abuses to Children and Adolescents; a commission that has worked slowly, that we have instituted since this Parliament, through a motion for a resolution presented by our parliamentary group, that meets once every three months, given that there were years in which it had met a little more than once. Ladies and gentlemen, the victim of sexual abuse in childhood is all life. Prevention is as important as treatment and dealing with cases of sexual abuse, as psychological recovery is once the victims, already in adulthood, give the step and denounce it. We don't have any help, support, adulthood. The youngest has to grow up feeling abused and has to get out in case the only one out of this reality is an adult. Let's hope the commissions serve to detail proposals in line with what Save the Children proposed with the Barnahus model, children's houses, which have worked so well in other countries around us. It can facilitate children's access to therapeutic support and family care; it can develop programs and preventative resources for early detection between different services, as well as specialized training for professionals. The struggle against sexual abuse is not only a responsibility of the councillor of Social Afers and Families, it has cross-cutting implications; Education, Justice, Interior, Greetings are, among others, key to a good approach. For these and many other reasons, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units will provide these two commissions with recollection. We consider that we should start with the committee of inquiry and then continue with the committee of study, but the two must be able to complement each other. For another group, it calls for the responsibility of parliamentary groups; the approach to sexual abuse is delicate. It may act forcefully and serenely, leaving behind those who want to make these commissions a spectacle or a parallel judgment of what has passed or what is going on. We have a responsibility to clean up responsibilities, it is true, but we have a fundamental responsibility to seek solutions so that no young person or young person suffers from sexual abuse; because the less he feels deprived before acts of this cruelty; because all institutions and professionals are alert, alert and familiar with possible institutions of sexual abuse, acting from prevention and from approach in the event that it has already occurred. We're all involved. The government of the state has already prepared a law that will protect and expand coverage to victims, which will also extend the reporting period because the aggressor cannot avoid the action of justice for the prescription of his crime. As the Catalonian Parliament considers that we can do more and consider that these two commissions go in the right line. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.164.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mrs Marta Ribas' deputy. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.165.0	Good afternoon to everyone. To thank the victims, people of your own right, to whom you have carried all these petitions which today are precisely converted into commissions, which you may have come, and which you could not have come for sure that you are following us. One of the five people in Catalonia suffered some type of sexual violence during their childhood, and before that, but especially before the brutal reality that exists behind these figures, which are victims, who are people who have seen their most basic rights violated during their childhood, there is no silence or inaction. We need to study this subject to find out what it is we need to do. The subject has been the subject of political and social debate for the past few years, and I believe that all the work done must be put into value. There have been many reports from the entities of the childhood sector, also reports from the Synod of Greuges, also the Parliament has done a lot and good work for decades to make visible this reality and to make proposals for changes, drawings of appearances, institutional declarations, motions, proposals for resolution of all parliamentary groups, the Law on the Protection of Children. The next two examples: the motion of our parliamentary group approved last April and we have a proposal for the law of Ciutadans on this subject. The awareness of the problem is there; the study and the structuring of where a comprehensive strategy of public policies has to pass to try to end this scourge is also there. In fact, if we try to sum up all the proposals that have appeared in reports, studies, comparisons, work that have been carried out by victims, by experts or experts who have appeared in Parliament, if we try to sum up the main conclusions of this whole study that have already been done, we will certainly already get to the following conclusions: in a cross-sectional approach; in a system of data collection; in a comprehensive summary of the main conclusions of this whole study, we will certainly get to the following conclusions: in a cross-sectional approach; in a system of data collection; in a framework of sound prevention policies, especially ensuring sexual and affective education for all children in all educational stages, I have been told that the results of sexual surveillance, in a country where sexual and affective education has been integrated into the curriculum, in particular, by ensuring sexual and affective education for all children in all educational stages have been used in all educational phases; in a country, in a country where there has been an integrated sexual and emotional education, in a comprehensive manner; in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country, in a country in a country in a country in a country, in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country, in a country in a country in a country in a country, in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country, in a country in a country, in a country in a country in a country in a country, in a country in a country in a country in a country, in a country in a country, in a country, in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country in a country, Those are the conclusions, aren't they? The analysis is already done, the proposals we already know, and all these proposals that I have just listed were approved on April 4th in a motion from my parliamentary group in this House. This Parliament must work together to stop, silence and end inaction. That's what we're doing as a parliamentary group all the time, and I think, unfortunately – today we have to say, so, with all the vocals and the consonants – that we're doing them a little bit of favor to the victims and to avoid new ones if what comes from today is basically what we need to do is a study committee that during all the time this legislature is dedicated to studying what it's already studied and what we already know we need to do. What's important is that the government is acting, what's important is that there's no inaction, what's important is that the government is pleased with what the parliament has already told it to do from what the sector and the victims have already studied. We fear that creating a study commission will only serve to cover that it is not acting. One example: at point 3 of the April 4th motion, "the government, is said, "must approve in a three-month term the cross-cutting strategy of fighting sexual rape against infants. Three months, April 4th, we're already wearing one more, extra terms. Did the government do it? We don't think that what we need is to work together to close the government's inaction with a study commission. We don't understand that the government is out of this and that the parliamentary groups that support the government are out of it. This attitude is unacceptable, but it is incomprehensible that this, moreover, is endorsed by opposition groups, if it is not that the only intention of the plenary today is to create this committee of study to be closed, to equalize the debate of the other committee that we are debating and approving today, which is the investigation into the cases of abuse of children and young people in schools and educational spaces in our country, because this would be innovative if it were to respect everything that has been done so far. Because of justice, in these cases, there have been only a few cases of the Maristes case; most of the cases that have occurred in our country in educational spaces have not been able to have justice by judicial means. And we in Parliament can do a commission of inquiry, not for justice, but to clear political responsibilities. A commission of inquiry must be used to silence, to clarify responsibilities; it is not permissible for victims to warn us that only in a 15-percent of the cases where a child has explained a bus to a school in Catalonia has reached the authorities. We are talking about areas where the guarantee of the safety of children, the guarantee of the basic rights of these children comes directly to the public administration, educational authority, and where neither accepted nor normalized nor silent can be accepted that is incomplete with basic human rights. The proposal, as you know, to make a commission of inquiry is not of this Member, it is not of our parliamentary group; it is driven by the survivors of the Maristes case, but with the support of the FAPAC, the Groga Assembly, the unions of the teaching sector, Save the Children, among other organizations, and more than five hundred people in individual title. And we ended it by recording together all the groups in Parliament after a year of trying. I'm saying to make a little memory, because the outsiders probably don't know. It's not just after, no: after a year of trying. For all I have explained, my group will abstain in the creation of the study committee, not because sexual violence against children and young people is not going to be addressed in its entirety and complexity, but because that, this analysis of this part, has already been done, and what it means is not to waste more time for victims on this issue; what it means to act, what it means to end inaction. On the other hand, we will put all our efforts and support, obviously, to make a commission of inquiry work on the cases that occurred in schools and educational centers in our country, because this has to be used to collaborate to put light in the dark, to raise captives and to advise, if there has been, errors and responsibilities. And to break the deafening silence that for years and years has covered everything and, to begin with, with the complicit silence of the same authorities. With regard to sexual violence against infants, I repeat: neither silence... but above all not inaction. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Carles Riera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.167.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, we want to give thanks to social movements, entities and associations, which are the authentic origin of this commission; many thanks for their constant struggle and for their dignity. In fact, it was understandable that, as these attacks in religious centers were hidden, the napkin had been released; it was understandable that, as the legal system made it difficult to condemn it by de facto setting the statute of limitations for offences fifteen years after the majority of the age, the napkin had been removed. Even so, you've been even more understandable because of the hard suffering you're supposed to see and experience sexual violence against a minor or minor, surely one of the toughest situations that can happen to life. And before this reality we bet on three elements: knowledge, recognition of the problem, justice and reparation; and we want to underline "justice and, above all, " reparation. We are a country without proper criminal law. Therefore, they cannot do anything from the strictly judicial point of view, nor from the policies of reparation. But we do think that it is possible to do an exercise of acclaiming of facts, and this is in good measure the object and purpose of this commission: investigation of sexual rapes at school children, but also the causes that have made it possible, and also mechanisms to prevent it from happening again, and also the knowledge and recognition of the consequences, so as to treat them accurately and with the reparations that can be made from the Public Administration. It will also serve us, for this pre-emptive and repaired exercise, to know what it does, what it has not done, what the Generality should do when doing in these cases, and also to know how it has done and who are the good reference practices in other countries. Finally, respect this commission, we do not want to forget that in the origin the commission of inquiry should have been in relation to religious centers, which is where the majority of sexual violence against minors is concentrated. Some parliamentary groups did not find this opportune. For us this is a concealment of reality. In any case, the name does not do the thing, and, beyond the generic reference of schools and educational spaces, expands the focus and allows us to move further. As far as the committee of study is concerned, we are not a promoter group, unlike the committee of inquiry, but we argue that our vote will be in favour. We had doubts as to whether what we needed, in the band of the commission of inquiry, of obvious and strict necessity, was also useful a commission of study on sexual rape. We are clear that this study committee is not only about schools and education, and therefore allows the focus of the debate to be broadened. We also had the doubt whether we actually had a problem with protocols, interdepartmental coordination and detection mechanisms and approach on the part of the Public Administration. In the end we have come to the conclusion that all that can be improved and strengthened still more these mechanisms and procedures, even though it is from the theoretical camp, that it is the abst of a study commission, will always be welcome and can be useful in the end. And let's go from the theoretical ground because this commission, as I said before, will not solve the problem, which goes through more resources, but it can bring solutions to what is not working. We want to end up insisting on two key ideas. If we want to act on rapes against sexual abuse, we need more material resources, already to detect and avoid this problem as for accompanying measures and, above all, for effective, material repair measures. And, second of all, who thinks that not referring to religious centers protects his church, is mistaken, is absolutely wrong. Precisely protects it if it denounces what goes on in these religious centers and assumes the consequences in terms of justice and reparation. That is why we will continue, for example, to ask for withdrawals from educational concerts once there are feelings, if there are – hopefully this is the case – declaring sexual rape for the staff of these centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.168.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr. Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.169.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, at this stage of the debate, because we could almost say that we share everything that has been said and expressed, except for some nuances. And the issue that concerns and concerns us is a serious one: the issue of abuse of minors. And I would like from here also, of course, to greet the victims and the entities accompanying us in the rostrum. And, therefore, since we are convinced that this is a serious and important issue, we will support the Commissions, the Research and Study Commissions. But we believe that these committees should flee from the easy debate, from the morbid, partisan, short-flight debate, and that, I insist, because we are dealing with a terrible issue: that of sexual abuse of minors, in the present and in the past. And the aim of these committees must therefore be to do rigorous work to improve and strengthen the mechanisms for monitoring, preventing and detecting such cases, especially in the future. And the aim of these commissions cannot be to become a sort of parallel court of the cases that are currently sub judice, but it cannot be that they become the perfect alibi of some political groups to charge against a part of our educational system, because of their status as a concerted or religious center. These commissions cannot go to trial a part of our education system, because it would not be fair. And obviously there have been cases of abuse in religious centres, it is obvious; but there have also been cases of abuse in public centres, in centres of minors protected by the Generalitat, and even outside the strictly school environment, unfortunately in the family sphere, in the sports sphere... And therefore, we cannot do a strict cause of our educational system, because, I insist, it would not be fair and it is not true. I myself have studied in a religious center and I have a grateful memory of my passage through La Salle Bonanova. And therefore we cannot make this cause a widespread cause against religious school, because, I insist, it would neither be fair nor true. Therefore, we understand that falling into the simplistic reductionisms is not what we can expect from these commissions. We must demand the utmost rigour and diligence on our part. Because, I insist, the public administration also has shortcomings. And it must be led by these commissions, to correct those shortcomings, to detect the shortcomings that exist in the public administration, because they also, of course, have a responsibility, and these are important aspects that we must try to correct. Hence the importance of these committees, and of our conviction that these deplorable cases of abuse will never occur again in the future. We are an important part of the system, not the only one, but we have a responsibility, and as such we must act, I insist, rigorously, diligently, seriously; not turn us into parallel courts. That's what justice is for, to do your job, and not make us judges before time. We will therefore support the creation of commissions, because above all we owe it primarily to the victims: to the victims who have taken the step of reporting, to the victims who will take the step in the future, and even to the victims who will never give it. But we believe that we have a responsibility to be with them and, therefore, we, I insist, will support the creation of paths of commissions: that of research and that of study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.170.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of the deputy Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.171.0	Thank you, President. First of all, good delay, counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies and people accompanying us, representatives of entities and victims of sexual abuse. Well, if we're debating these points today, it's because infants and adolescents are a fragile and vulnerable collection, and everything that surrounds them in this period is the mark of life. Therefore, before hard facts like the ones we treat, we have the responsibility to activate ourselves: analyze, study, investigate and take action, try to ensure that these facts do not happen again, because no child or young person deserves to live such traumatic facts. (Applause.) Like masnovina, I would like to take advantage of this charm to condemn the fact that they have found my city in the last few days and that they have found themselves as victims of minor violent acts of age. Companies and companies, we have a lot of work to do if what we want is an equal and respectful society with its diversity. And from here I make a call to protect and shield all infants, adolescents and young people, all without exception, because no child, adolescent or young person deserves to be attacked in any way. For what it does to the creation of commissions, which is the issue that concerns us today, the creation of the two commissions of sexual abuse to minors, one of study and the other of research on concrete facts, the two commissions that we will create, with coherence and responsibility for that which we represent as Members..., give response to what concerns our society, a subject of lesser people, but of the highest priority: the sexual abuse that our children and adolescents suffer, as we have said, the most vulnerable. A fact that, according to different studies, affects one_of_each_five people, and that leaves hard consequences for life, is to say that the child, an adult couple, accompany difficulties and problems that can have direct influence on the part of emotions, on the part of relationships, on social behavior and adaptation, on the functional, on the sexual and in some cases, and can also involve intergenerational transmission. Without going any further, we knew the same case of a minor of thirteen months ago. As you know, my little son has thirteen months. From here I condemn this sexual assault on this child, and above all – above all – all the support for the family and the gratitude to the professionals who have had the ability to detect it. (Applause.) On more than one occasion we have defended our position as a group on this issue, in which I have always agreed that it is essential to be able to differentiate things. On the one hand, we need to do a deep exercise and the parliamentary tool that allows us to do so is the study committee on sexual abuse of children. And, on the other hand, we need to know what happened in the cases reported and also in those cases where there has already been a sentence, and, to that, we can only approach it by sending a commission of inquiry into the cases of sexual violence reported in schools. The United Nations Convention, to which my partners have already referred, on the Rights of Children, of 1989 and the current legislation on children recognize the rights of children and adolescents to be protected before any form of violence, enclosing sexual abuse, and the duty of public administrations to adopt real protection measures. For this reason, for us, it is necessary to give support to the creation of the study committee and also to the investigation committee. Now, we have to be very aware that we have to be useful tools. And these commissions cannot become a circus or a populist, years against, they must allow us to have a global view on the subject in a serious way and the maximum objective, both on what went on, on the committee of inquiry, like what must not go on again, on the committee of study. That is to say, for us the Committee on the Study of Sexual Abuse must be the tool that must be used to prevent future repetitions. That's why we need to be able to analyze all the existing resources and what kind of resources we need to change and modify, so how many of them we lack to be more effective in prevention and detection, and also if the protocols we have are the necessary ones and the sufficient ones, and if our professionals who are directly involved in the issue have enough training. In short, a vision that can help us create a transversal, immediate and effective response, especially to the infant, does not lvictimize one time or another. For another band, we don't want you to just focus on educational space, that too. We want our infants to be free of any kind of abuse in any area of their daily lives. Therefore, we want you to also have your security and freedom guaranteed in areas such as the reading or practice of the sport. We want our children and girls, nephews and nebos, nets and nets, children and like girls to have tools to help them identify who are the limits that must never be exceeded. Also, the professionals who wrap them up have enough skills and the civic duty to report any suspected sexual abuse in order to activate the relevant protocols. In short, this must be the space that allows us to analyze and propose better ways to advance at a zero risk of sexual abuse to minors, all folded through existing experts in the matter and the analysis of experiences of other rights that have a comprehensive approach to sexual abuse of minors effectively. Since our group we have demonstrated on repeated occasions our position with respect to sexual abuse committed in educational centres, which, as it cannot be in any other way, is of condemnation and of zero tolerance. We believe that it is necessary to be able to establish a space in Parliament where victims and their families can be escorted and we can investigate and learn from their terrible experience, because we cannot ignore the responsibility of all the services involved. It may be recalled that the growth of the names of adult persons who denounce the calvary that have lived long years in silence and with the weight of the constant wounds of the por and the feeling of guilt cannot make us insensitive to the subject. Nor can we forget that the Criminal Code establishes that the abuse to minors prescribes between five and fifteen years from the age of majority, which results that in many abusive cases go unpunished. Finally, I would like to give you a look from this Faristol to what many of the entities of victims of child sexual abuse tell us, and which reinforces what I said earlier: we must be very responsible and respectful to investigate what happened; we must avoid that the Commission's space is converted into a television tertulia. It is very important to respect the right of those people who may wish to remain anonymous and who do not want to make their story public. And I'm sure that between all the deputies and the deputies we'll do what we can because this isn't turning into a show. Finally, I reiterate our willingness as a group to support the creation of the two commissions, both the study and the investigation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.172.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the return of Mr Lluís Font.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.173.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, advise, deputies and deputies, the truth is that the issue that concerns us and justifies the creation of these two commissions, an unusual fact that seems to me very uncertain because they are complementary, asks me deeply. I don't think I've ever thought intellectually about such a deep, transcendent subject, and it affects me in the double condition of father and teacher. The recent events that we have read about in the face of these abuses or the presence as guests of people who have experienced it in their own flesh, who participate in entities that have contributed to the complaint, help to become aware of the transcendence of what is at stake. I would like to make some preliminary considerations and then set out the expectation that I have, like the future member of these committees, of which some of the challenges we will face seem to me. First thing. These days I've read enough about it and I've been able to talk to some experts, and find out that when there's a possible abuser in the trust environment, family or education, he's converted... like in the middle of it, putting the guinea pig to take care of the chickens, it's something that impressed me a lot, because many of the abuse is produced—or almost all of it—in these trust settings. And, therefore, the people we created, and we thought that precisely these spaces gave security to our infants, we need to figure out what's happening to us. The second question, the silence. The silence that has surrounded the victims, the silence that has established a menu of opacity, this silence prevents the social face of the issue with depth and give-lifes of resolution. It's not good to replace the silence for the soroll. This evil doesn't want to blow, it wants a study commission that deepened the questions. I, perhaps unlike other Members, am not so clear. And as I read more – I confess my incapacity – more than two have come out of me, because there is no universal reception, there are no countries that have eradicated it with formulas that we can extrapolate. There are paths of solution, there are alternatives, there is then a comparative practice that can give us perspective. Therefore, neither silence nor soroll. Then, I think – and there have been other people insisting – that rigour in the analysis. André Gide, whom I will talk about later, in his Diari has a quote that would apply: "Before we discuss we have to define. In a broad sense, I mean: we need to hear the concepts, we need to see what we are talking about to really deepen the phenomenon. This does not mean that we do not have to carry it until the last consequences, analyze the protocols, see the responsibilities and improve everything you convince. But the hermeneutics of the joint that surrounds the abuser-abuse relationship think it's monal. I'd like to plant five great reptes or themes that we'll have to face. A first, which is uncomfortable, which is the figure of the abuser. We don't have time to delve into it right now, but I think there's a triangle that puts the issue, that's power, rape and sex. And in this triangle is developed an attitude, a mentality that in spaces where there is no transparency, where there has been impunity, that gives little, let's say, to a libido that has many sadistic traits and many other questions, until the extreme that there are abusers that they are indifferent if they abuse a child or a girl, unfortunately not bisexual, because the phonenal is not the sex itself, but the power relationship, the abus, the asymmetry, the ego that this reinforces. I believe, and there has not been much talk, that we should not reflect on this subject. A _second question is the treatment, the cultural, literary, cinematographic, media approach that makes the topic and the concepts proper. In order not to complicate my life, I will go to a reference of the past century: André Gide, in his Diari. He is pederastic and speaks about it openly in his diary, and not so much analyzing the inner struggle he has, but defending that in the background pederasty is a relationship that enriches both parts. So, from a certain arrogance. Well, this man has marked a cultural trend, this man has contributed... to me very much as a writer, but he has contributed decisively to a confusion. In an early part of 1918, when he defines homosexuality, he talks about sodomites, pederates – who say he is – and inverts, who do have a problem. Well, intellectuals like him, cultural or media products, contribute to creating an imaginary collection and that weighs, this is a shadow that plans for children, educators, families and society. I think we'll have to look at this study committee, and perhaps also the research committee, the shared cultural responsibility at the time of facing this situation. A third theme is victims. Freud, to The Trouble in Culture, says that a person is not like a city, that they can bury the ruins to build us, but we have to live with everything we've experienced. Therefore, victims in no case will be able to erase what has happened, but they will have to rewrite their lives making difficult, traumatic or post-traumatic experiences compatible with other rewarding and satisfying experiences. It has already been discussed, but there are various problems that affect them, emotional, cognitive, conceptual, relationship, functional, behavioral. We will need to establish a relationship between cases of eating disorders and experiences of abuse, cases of sexualization of life, exacerbated promiscuity or inability to maintain relationships. We'll have to talk about depression. We'll have to talk about auto-lesive ducts, suicide storms. Therefore, it is a very complex theme, very broad and very transcendent. And then there's a black hole, which is those people with intellectual and developmental disabilities, who don't know how to quantify to what extent they've been objected to these abuses because the difficulty of sharing it is obvious. Therefore, there is a black hole in the victims, who are those who, because of their situation, will hardly be able to say that something is happening to them; send the message. The fourth theme is the victim's circle, that is, family members, educators, monitors. That's to say, why are there these barriers to detection, why are they saying the studies that there are educators who have suspected something was going on and then haven't completed the process of communicating it, always justifying it with exogenous elements. That's what we call silence. What happens that prevents this phenomenon from facing itself, not so much to make a spectacle of it as to go to the bottom of the question and protect what is subject to this abuse. And it seems to me that here we have a very important responsibility: to create these environments that must be of protection, of safety for the children, but with the conditions required and with the transparency required. And last, and fifth point, the actions to be implemented. We have some protocols, the experts say that we have several applied to age and to educational cycles and to contexts; we may find a way to put the emphasis on the most essential; we have to prioritize affective education, not because it has to be the definitive solution, but it is a way to become aware of the autonomous person that it is likely to do and live at every moment, and above all collectively we have to recognize the problem. I think the reps raised are too many. And so, we have a lot of work and it's a lot more important than what we can do here. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.174.0	You finish the speeches, we'll proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed, as I said earlier, to the vote separately from the two motions for resolutions. First of all, the Motion for a resolution on the creation of a committee of study on sexual abuse of children, and then, in a second vote, we will vote on the Motion for a resolution on the creation of a committee of inquiry into cases of sexual violence reported at school. Let us therefore proceed first to the first of the votes. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution establishing a committee of study on sexual abuse of children was adopted by 120 votes in favour, against and 8 abstentions. And let us now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution to set up a committee of inquiry into cases of sexual violence reported in schools. The vote begins. This second proposal was also adopted, by 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions; that is to say, unanimously. Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day. [[Perlongats applause.]] [[Procedure for electing seven members of the Plenary of the National Council for Culture and the Arts]] [[284-00004/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the procedure for choosing the seven members of the Plenary of the National Council of Culture and Arts. Before, however, I would like to welcome and greet the current President of the Conca and the members of the current plenary, but also the candidates and candidates for members of the Plenary of the National Council of Culture and Arts, which we will continue to vote on. According to Article 6 of Law 6/2008 of 13 May of the National Council of Culture and the Arts, the plenary of the council is integrated by seven members appointed for this Parliament. It is for the Presidency of the Generality to draw up the proposal for candidates for members of the Council, a proposal which has been submitted to the Parliament of Catalonia on 1 July and which is on the file of the plenary which all of you have and which has been distributed. The reminder that, according to Article 6.3 of Law 6/2008, this proposal of candidates has to be accepted or rejected globally by absolute majority in a first vote or by simple majority in a _second. Ask the second secretary, Mr. David Pérez, who gave reading of the proposed candidates. Secretaries, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.175.0	Thank you, President. The candidates proposed are Vinyet Panyella i Balcells, Margarida Troguet Taull, Núria Iceta Llorens, Edmon Colomer i Soler, Jordi Font i Cardona, Míriam Porté Solano i Salvador Casals Romagosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.176.0	I'm asking the group if this designation can be made for the consent of the groups... [[Pause.]] Therefore, the vote is called for. We will call for a vote and ask the servants of the chamber to prepare the system because it is obviously a vote that will be made electronic and secret. [[Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Fernández, say so. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Say'm, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.177.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...before the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.178.0	If you want to position yourself, we'll make an initial turn before the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.179.0	What you consider; it's just as much for me as for the explanation of vote as for the positioning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.180.0	We'll do it early in the vote, if that's what it looks like. And, in any case, we will give the word to the parliamentary groups that want to speak for space of two minutes per parliamentary group. In any case, if there is no further request for intervention, Mr. Fernández, when you wish.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.181.0	Yes, thank you very much, President. Simply to convey that, without questioning at any time neither the professional prestige, it would only be lacking, nor the involvement in the cultural world of the people who have previously objected, and who are the propositions, and that we respect absolutely, indeed we would have liked more dialogue between the groups, than we had tried to agree some proposal in a more coherent way. And we understand that, on this subject, which has nothing to do with the process or with the conflicts that we have, but simply with culture, we have found that this dialogue is missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.182.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Rafel Bruguera Battle asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Bruguera, I also ask for the word...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.183.0	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly. In the first place, to thank Mr. Carles Duarte and his team for the work they have done at the length of these years at Conca. [[Greetings.]] Secondly, I come out and I am obviously certain of the people who will join their plenary; we will vote for them. And just saying that today, there's an important day, and an important vote, it's not the most important of all. Today nothing ends; today a process begins that, from our point of view, has to culminate with the modification of the Law of the Conca and therefore its reformulation to reverse, if nothing else, as at least a part of the Councillor Mascarell's details and also to give him more independence, more autonomy, more commitment of the Conca to the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Several Members are asking to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.184.0	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Carrizosa and then Mrs. Sànchez. We didn't do it by the usual order, but in any case, Mr. Carrizosa, Mrs. Sànchez and also the rest of the groups, who I see are also asking for the word; therefore, I will also give it to them. Mr. Carrizosa, when you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.185.0	Yeah. Only then, without prejudice to the dignity and competence of the people to be appointed by this Parliament today, would we also have wished that there would have been more dialogue and more transparency in the proposals that were ultimately raised by this Parliament, and that is what my group is going to be motivating us not to expressly support these appointments but to abstain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.186.0	Thank you, Congressman. Mrs. Sànchez, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.187.0	Yeah. Well, we, too, as we have already expressed at the time, consider that the organ itself is an organ that is often far from the common cultural, bureaucratic and self-referential good, with a lot of reports and little capacity to intervene, little real autonomy and much endogenousism. And, in fact, this agreement, which is an agreement between obvious political spaces, also proves it. We, for this reason, will not participate in this vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.188.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mrs. Abellan, when you're ready.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.189.0	Thank you. Give thanks to the company that has been in the previous Conca for all these years and now, therefore, give thanks to the rest. We want an independent, resourceful, decision-making and feminist-minded Conca. We are sure that people who take responsibility are very capable and will do everything possible for a more participatory, plural and democratic Conca. But we want to make it clear that it did not manage well, because it did not count on the cultural sectors to make a proposal for consensus, which is not only to be built with the political forces, but also with all the cultural sectors of Catalonia, and demonstrates once more the abandonment and incapacity of the Government with culture. If we want an effective Conca, we must strengthen its connection with the sector. And now more than ever it is necessary to democratize culture and make it the place it deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.190.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, if there's no more... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, yes, Mr. Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.191.0	Thank you, President. President Torra, advisors, advisors, deputies, I also attach myself to the thanks of the members of the incoming Conca for their willingness to do the work that sees them in the world, but above all to the members of the outgoing Conca, and in the figure of Mr Carles Duarte, who has sometimes led this vessel not only with political exceptionality. Perejaume said, in the last National Awards of Culture, that it is possible to move from good management to gestation. It's what we trust and what we encourage this new Conca renovated because it's re-launched, it's re-thinking and, if it comes down, it's also re-thinking. We give our utmost confidence to this and fully support this new plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.192.0	Thank you, congressman – apologies. Mrs. Díaz, come in.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.193.0	Thank you, President. Well, in the first place, announce that we will give support to the new appointment of the members of the Conca. Gratify the councillor to unblock the plenary block in her first month. Also gratify the work of the Conca feta until now, with Mr. Duarte in the lead. Give the welcome to our members. And announce that we are very pleased that this new match of four women plus three men is a new reality. In short, good and lots of work on the new Conca. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.194.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Let us now proceed to the vote. The record that the proposal's globality is voted on and that this vote will be electronic, as usual, but secret. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The proposal for the appointment of members of the Conca ple was approved by 74 votes to two, with 45 abstentions and five Members or Members present who did not vote. Let's move on, then, to the next point of the order of the day. [[applause]] giving thanks, in any case, as we did to the principle, to the members of the plent coming out and above all wishing the members of the plent to be uncertain. Thank you very much. [[Government inquiry into fire prevention and fire-extinguishing]] [[300-00156/12]] We follow, as we say, with the order of the day. The next point is the question to the Government about the prevention and extinction of fires, an question made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Carles Castillo. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.195.0	Good afternoon to everyone. When anything emerges in general, the first thing to do is protect people, and as far as possible, animals and goods, react to appease their effects, control their consequences, and try to return to normality as soon as possible. So it was to the hard fire that it produced more or less two weeks ago in the region of the Ebre River with affectation to many territories, five thousand and a lack of hectares– the GRAF spoke, it is true, the first days, of twenty thousand potentials of risk–, affectation to eight populations, among them some also liidatana. The reaction was correct. And so I have to say to start clearly, so as not to demagogically and alarmly. But it's that, uh, not the whole question is in the reaction or the whole problem is Bombers, too. The extinction itself does not solve the problem, that is to invest in prevention. In 2017, 63_percent of the fires produced were left in the hands of an affected person. The burning of fires, therefore, is successful. Despite this, every time there are greater forest fires, calcining areas higher than five hundred hectares, an absolute drama for our natural heritage, but also a risk to our populations. It is essential to act both in the causes of the fires and in the ones that spread them. Otherwise there will always be a big fire hard to control, a big fire, certainly, that will cost us a lot of personal and economic effort to put out. I will only give a given because they make an idea: a minute of helicopter costs between thirty and forty euros; that is, between 1,800 and 2,500 euros per hour. Think of the hours that have been needed in the case of the fire of the Torre de l'Espanyol. Imagine what could be done in the prevention of fires with this money and the efficiency we can achieve. These great fires – these great fires – are the tip of the iceberg of the situation of our forests and of the climate change; they are the result of the cocktail of some hotter hotter ones that make the mountains, that the mountains have extreme water and that are more vulnerable to fire, and of a continuous increase in the vegetation fruit of the exodus from the rural environment, the abandonment of culture, the abandonment of pasture, etc. Two, we've had a lot of help, a lot of help, too. As it has to be, so do I. And I take advantage of it to give thanks to all the effects and means of other autonomous communities and of the same State that, as it could not otherwise be, they have fully budgeted for it. Thank you, humbly, for the very many people who sincerely and honestly thank you for your fraternal help; thank you for putting you at our disposal. And thanks, of course, to all the ops that were likely to be left behind by the skin, by the moves and moves, by the bombers, of course, and to all the summer campaign personnel that also put the anime: foresters, personnel of 112, personnel of the SEM, of the GEM, local police and so many others. A hug also very large and very old to all people who have been personally affected in their possessions, homes or animals. And from these abundant recognitions and graces we begin to speak openly and clearly because there are always better things. And more, as we see in this case, when there are important questions that have not been sufficiently taken into account, that have not been well and from which we have to learn to draw conclusions. Aniré degreasing at the length of the two interventions. We agree, too, as a starting point, because you yourself have recognized it, the Government, in which the main problem is to solve the problem of staffing and the issue of various materials, vehicles and equipment in general of the bombers, and to make park reforms. Some new park will also ask you, like Tarragona, to warn you. But, look, also to put the situation in its proper course, they have allowed you to stop at this wear and tear. And if they're doing something right now, it's because the emergences are on the cliffs, because the template is up to bursting into fatigue and demotivation, and because they're forced even in some case for the same job inspection, they've seen clear circumstances of unsuspecting to work the bombers, and they've warned them that they can't keep them in these conditions. All that said, and it's supposed to be doing everything possible to increase the staff and to buy new material, we vehicles and make park reforms... Certainly, counselor, we would like to know in which point exactly the topic is found, how long it will take to arrange the material. It's been a long time since we've talked, but in the end, in reality, to the bombers who later find themselves extinguishing the fire not up them. For what, counselor? For when, Governor of the Generalitat? And, I said, assuming they're doing all this, which is what should be done and it didn't just go under our humble point of view because it's starting to look at the situation that's receding. So under the humble point of view of this parliamentary group you have to work on a country project of the Cos de Bombers. The Generalitat works with what is said model in the network and 50_percent of volunteer firefighters. You don't need to go and stick to the law. We need to think, value and decide what our Bomber Cos is, where we want to go. We are, ladies and gentlemen, at an important turning point. It's way down the generality's firehouse. To see a light at the end of the tunnel, look at all those involved and involved in the emergences of this country and make decisions. We are debating what the professional organisation of emergencies in Catalonia should be like and we are finalizing the joint conclusions. I know you've got it coming, counselor, and I have to say publicly that this is what they announced a few weeks ago. But that's true and that's not trig too much, because we're a little tired of great headlines and good powerpoints that are later on in a coven and that just happen to be one-day headlines. Make it like the country project, make it with the ‘charity that is deserved and make it pleasurable. Mark General of course. Now we're going to go there a little more concrete. When I tell them many times, I already know, that they are still not money, I refer first of all to treating with dignity the staff of the Generality Firehouse – to the troops, if I may say so, with all the love of the world. It can't be that they don't complete the agreements they make with them; it can't be that the ADF gets material cut and done evil, or that some bomber boats are literally broken when they come back from a fire to rest or is disengaged from the heat during the service, or by low quality, or to fall; it can't be that the stuff that comes in is gutted or unserviceable from the mena. Calen standard quality standards, but minimum standards. But I will also give you more concrete examples even more accurate. It cannot be, as has happened in this fire, that 70_per_cent– 70_per_cent– of the bombers find it inadequate or regulate the time of arrival of the meal. For example, and they're cautious and even kind to their government, with their administration, I'm telling you, because the truth is that some of them come back from all morning and from the night worked at 5 p.m. and in some cases at 6 p.m., and they were eating at 1 a.m. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, Do you, ladies and gentlemen, see yourself doing a physical job all morning and at 17 o'clock? I ask you, Illus of me. But it's that more than 30 percent of the firefighters suffered seven in that fire – firefighters, seven –; people who find themselves attacking a fire, in which hydration is indispensable. Therefore, a very clear conclusion of the better is, for example, that of the suit, it is a vital question, and to study how it can be improved. It is not a matter of comfort or luxury, but, as I say, vital, and that, certainly, in the last few days it is used to failing very much. I've seen cases where the city guard or the local police got to go to the supermarket to buy water for the firefighters. I've seen it myself. So difficult would it be, for example, to make a procedure for these cases from the Bomber Safety and Health Committee? And secondly, when I say that they're not all money, I also refer to prevention and planning, to these last words of which we all keep our mouths shut, but that they exercise very little in the reality of the management of this Government of the Generality. There's nothing planned, and neither with the firemen. The heads that should be done are dedicated to doing operational tasks, and they are obliged to do operational safeguards, for example, to cover the very serious lack of staff. Look, you can't put in technical personnel as operative personnel, it's from the calibre. As brilliant as the technicians we're talking about are, as good and brilliant as their university careers are, if you don't have a career as a firefighter, they're not personal and you don't have to be able to make heads of operations, because we're not guaranteeing your own security or the security of the service you're running. And we find ourselves, moreover, that there is a series of important tasks that simply and flatly are not currently being done in the Generality Firehouse. For example, who is now dedicated to taking plans, studying them in an operational way and proposing concrete itineraries? Who is working with the municipalities that have important cultural and material heritage – I soc tarragoní, and know it – how to save the maximum of heritage elements? How do they determine population containment zones and fire attack zones in cases of fire? Who is dedicated to preparing the practices that the bombers should periodically do? How many practical steps are being taken? And simulate them with gatherings and people, where are they, where are they? How long have you been out of it? Or the formation, which periodic formation is given to the bombers? What operational expertise to know after reacting in very determined risk situations is being made available to the template? And, by the way, what price do the bombers have to access to the band? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.196.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, counsel Miquel Buch has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.197.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Member, I will try to answer the question, the series of questions that you have posed about the table, with a series of data about the forest campaign and the same fires that you have named, about the Spanish Tower, right? What I'd ask is the percentages that you've been dealing with, and I'd like you to tell me where you've been dealing with them. Anyway, like we're gonna have another turn, so you tell me where those percentages came from, right? And tell him yes, that there's a forecast to have a fuel vehicle for the bombers, huh? Like this year we have launched a vehicle for commands, which is where the intelligence is working to combat this fire, as well as extinguishing this fire, it is also obvious that we have to have, and is already forecast, a vehicle of specific skill, only for the skill of the people we have from the camp, working there in situ. Tell him we just started the summer, we started the forest campaign. I recently compared this room, to the Interior Commission, to talk about the forest campaign of the year 2019..., and in which I explained to them that we were all just working on a model change, huh? That's what's framed in the 2025 Bombers – 2025 Bombers – isn't it? , and in which this model change is working on how to adapt to the new situation– if you remember, it talks about deseasonalization, right? – and like the contract we made and predicted we made for what was a typical summer forest campaign, so as we expanded it in time, why? So precisely why – I explained to them in that appearance – what had come from the 1st generation to the day of that appearance, which is already more than a month ago, huh? – I don't know when it was, but more than a month ago – there were more hectares cremated in the year 2019 than in the whole year 2018. So, what did he tell us? That winter and spring of the 19th there were more fires than all year 2018, that we had a very good summer campaign, in the matter of fires, we had a very good campaign, we had a very good one, we had a time, we had a few months of very rain, but the deseasonalization brought us here, and so we had to adapt. The new model, this Bombers 25, what it does is: it adapts to the realities that we have now, what brand is the way we have to follow in our own years to identify what is the new model that the firefighters are tending to face fires; it doesn't just talk about personnel, it doesn't just talk about inversion, it doesn't just talk about staff retirement... It leaves a little parenthesis, which now I see a deputy who is from my municipality, and today it's July 10th, it's Sant Cristòfol, who is the boss of our people, and so, therefore, let's demand, eh? , which today is my town's boss's day, driver's boss, and I'm sure he'll lead us on the right path to this summer's fire. I'm closing the parenthesis. The Bombers 2025 model isn't just about you, it's not just about staff, it's not just about the retirement forecast of this staff, it's about the downfalls of this staff, it's about new strategies, new strategies that go on... and I think I've been enough... I explained to them in my appearance. With regard to the questions that I had asked, obviously, I looked, the good thing and the pain of explaining the truth is... that I the first day that I came here I explained the reality that was, the reality that we had found ourselves in the Bomber Coss – also from Mossos d'Esquadra, but we are talking about Bombers – and that it was a critical situation, and that we wanted to reverse it as quickly as possible, and that we had to reverse it. We're reversed, I think we're doing a good job, not as fast as we want – obviously all this has been accompanied by resources, we don't have what we want right now – but we're reverting from little to little. And here I must thank the efforts of all, from the workers to the trade union representatives, to the same workers of the back office of the Conselleria d'Interior, in the matter of bidding, in the matter of summonses of oppositions, in the matter of summonses of ascents to Bombers, etc. Here he's working everybody, he's posing... and he put all the meat in the grail to turn the situation around. He told me about the bidding. They're coming. You know that bidding isn't as fast as we want and that we're doing public procurement, and so that's slower than we want, huh? And more in a situation like we're living. But they're coming, these bids are coming, and let's hope, then, that I'll tell you, as soon as possible, because, once the department has decided that these money is destined for these games, and once it's gone, to hear us, and once it's published, from here the time already counts for others, no longer counts for us. Therefore, we have to run a lot to do these planned steps and publish the bids. I think we're now up to a set of bids on the way; seventy, that's not a few. About the debate about how the emergencies are supposed to be, you said that, less power points and more reality, right? He came to say something like that, huh? I went to work and I summed it up like this; totally okay, huh? We've already told them: we've done the job before, we've planned a law change, a law modernization, what's it gonna do for five years, huh? And we're going to take it forward, and obviously we're going to count on all of you to make it happen. With regard to the material that is broken, which you have commented, I would like to see the bombers, like all public workers or all private business workers, so they have material that you do not have a programmed obsolescence or is never broken, that you were unbreakable; but it is broken. The point that this counselor has and that this department has is that, in case it's material that's used... why don't you and I make a comfortable job of walking on the carpet, huh? And so it's convenient, but they work on complicated lands and, so, boats, in the case of boats, may be treacherous. The objective we have to have is to rest as quickly as possible, because it can be a manufacturing defect, it can be a purchase defect, it can be that the successful bidder has not served the material well and, therefore, we have to initiate a bureaucratic process to reverse that purchase, etc. Many things may happen, but the problem with solving it as quickly as possible is that if you are hit by a few boats, if you are hit by the material you need to work with, you will immediately be rested. And this is the objective that we have set ourselves, also ordering a lot – that we have found ourselves quite disorderly – so all that is the repositioning of the material, and, therefore, make it much more agile. And, plus, how can we compare it to other spaces in the same house, huh? We can say that other spaces work much faster and were much more agile at the time of resting the material that is broken or is evil for use and, therefore, in the case of Bombers it was not as fast as it was to be, and therefore we have put it right, that this is what it is. The fire at the Tower of Espanyol is the first fire we've encountered with the new Bombers 2025, and more so we found it at the end of June, so at the beginning of the forest campaign. Obviously, that's bad news, because it's a fire, it's a fire that, even if it's saved fifteen thousand hectares of the potential of that fire, they're going to cremate five thousand. So, having a fire isn't good – it's not good – it's not good news, okay? But when you have it, you also see if it's working what it was drawn a few months back on the 2025. And I can tell you that what I was moved to when this plan was drawn, I have seen it carried out at the length of this fire and, therefore, I can tell you that I have a lot of confidence and a lot of security on this plan, in this new way of working, in this adaptation made by the Bomber Cos to reality, which obviously has to be accompanied by all the best that we all know and that I have explained by active and passive, but that the plan is a robust plan, it is a horizontal plan, with the north, and it will therefore face the best possible – because you know that the fires are dynamic – this is a campaign from the east and all that can come. And respect the work of prevention, so, Bombers..., the general direction is of prevention and fire-extinguishing; so, in prevention it is work, it is work in strategic points that are work in the long winter. Yesterday, for example... no, yesterday, no, before yesterday, for example, I was at Jonquera, border with France, in the municipality of Pertús, with a total prevention job, which is the prevention that was done to the High Emporda because the fires could not, therefore, run, but it is possible to put up just in the area where we are interested to put up, so, in the case that they are believed there, take advantage of the infrastructures that we have, the barriers that we have, making strategic areas for the defense of the fire... So, well, they did preventative work. Obviously, they needed a lot more, and I think that Councilwoman Jordan here, at the show we did together, spoke a lot about the work they also do in the field of prevention, and I am convinced that the recently approved Law of Agrarian Thickness will also help a lot in the prevention of fires in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.198.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the return, again, of the deputy. When you're ready, Mr. Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.199.0	Well, first of all, counselor, I thank you very much for all you have, for being able to collect even as some of the questions we raise are proposed. I think this attitude must also be highlighted. You see, one of the things he asked me... First, the data I gave was from a thing that made a union between 80 and 90 and that of the workers, of the firefighters who were working, of all turns; that is to say, it almost reached 90 percent of the firefighters who worked on all the fireturns. Therefore, I think it reflects quite well the reality and I think it would be interesting that you, as the government, have this in mind. I'll tell you some of the things that this one says the most, even some positive things too, that you pointed out, right? , and I don't want to store them either, some positive things like, for example, the rapid repositioning of material – it's true, this has been highlighted by the bombers as a positive issue –; a good communication policy; warnings for the emitter to continuously moisturize or for if someone is found badly at some point. This, with positive data also to highlight. But, of course, when you talk about the material, it's true that it's been done with the return and fast repositioning, but we think it's also to be looked at that it has some good quality standards, and we think it hasn't been looked at properly so far, that's what it is. I'll tell you some of the reviews they say too. Communications: It didn't work in 45.6_percent of cases; this I think is a tough question. Coordination, in general, is qualified as regular or painful in practically 75_per_cent of the basic participants. 30_per_cent says he couldn't count on his commands when they needed them. Distributed water, warms up and scarce. Lack of isotonic beguda. Fallen energy bars. Command Centers with connection issues. Use tertiary paths, which are not operated by heavy vehicles during fire. Punxed handles, coming from clearly defective material, which is quickly relapsing, is certain, but they must be aware of these things. Or problems with the lack of staff, which are not only the direct effects hard not to have enough people: it is to force external guards, limit the hours of replenishment, generate fatigue, risks, decrease of job security, etc. Clearly, you say this is a matter of public contract. And, well, when we look at the contraction of the summer campaigns of the last two or fifteen years, we see that they've gone down a lot, and that's contracting from the public, but it's not directly running. So I think there are other things that can be done. Direct criticisms, for example, that were made in the same territory. You know I went personally to see and talk to people there, to see what had happened and how they had experienced it, and some of the criticisms I'm going to tell them, too. Discoordination in the initial deployment – we talked about it, and so on, you and I there. People still have the masts, there was the masts, trapped, and denied, the people who were on fire, who were actually lying there. Discoordination at the time of access to the mass also comes with animals in danger; many of the animals eventually died. There have been reports that they may have been accompanied, but others have not. It seemed that the criteria were a little subjective, they were not objective safety criteria, at least what I was told. There was no use, for example, for the people of the territory, who know all the paths and all the mountain, like hunters, for example. Or when I talk to her about planning, so naturally she's been preventing it, naturally she's doing things, but be clear that it's not enough, which is what she's doing. If we have computer programs capable of reproducing models of reality that advance the possible evolution of fire in certain situations of temperature, wind, humidity, etc., why not make use of these simulations, this information, these knowledges, to do preventive work, to look exactly where we have to prioritize, which areas of the territory we have to prioritize? And if they already do, then I have to tell you, counselor, it's not a big deal. The percentage of public management forest is very high, and sometimes we seem to only look at the private management percentage. Or the formation. So in training we also ignore under what criteria of merit and ability, for example, formators learn. Objectivity must be guaranteed, prestige must be guaranteed, as well as simple access and bartered for the professional and the volunteer bombers. The formation can't be a business. The formation must guarantee, moreover, equal opportunities. Anyway, all these things, I think all the folds and their positive attitude, which I also recognize, so I hope we can bring a good young man forward with good proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.200.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make the reply is again, too, the return of the Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.201.0	Thank you, President. I'm sure we'll make a good young man, sure, I'm not convinced, because they're assumed in whom I'm convinced... because, for the country that we've been long this year with you and your parliamentary group, so I think they know how to distinguish what political divergence is, what it is and what it is, from what it's the field of emergence. In fact, I say it again, I think that during an episode that we have had in this country of adverse economic situation, so we have established a political foundation, huh? Which has been invested or attempted to allocate as many resources as possible, sacrificing from other parties, right? And we're talking about the social welfare camp, we're talking about the education camp, the health camp, which are obvious. But what I claim is that, from these pillars that support a society at a time of economic prosperity, but also at a time of crisis like we've been through, the emergences and security must also be one of these pillars, and therefore cannot pass again. And that's why, so, as far as we can, if we can fit into this new law that we'll draw among all of us, I think it's fun. Why? So why can you already have good hospitals, good schools, which, if you don't guarantee that one day, if something happens and if there's an emergency, they can evacuate these people and someone old because they can evacuate, well we won't do it, will we? So, I'm convinced that we're going to make a good young lady, a young woman who will help us all pull forward. As far as data is concerned, I asked them precisely for this, because you are aware that they are some data from a union inquiry, that with all my respect..., because I don't want to give up anyone, but that's what this is all about, a concrete union inquiry. And, therefore, they are data that we can hold and that we can value, but it is not the objective data that can come out of another side. I'm going back to saying, without need and with all the respect of the world. The quality standards, totally agreeable. Obviously, when you buy a car, you expect that car to work well, and if it does not work well, so it turns out that the car has gone wrong and, therefore, what the house has to do is change it there. So we're with the same thing: if we make a buy-out of boats, pants, clothes, whatever it is, and they don't sound good, what we have to do, like the public administration especially, is not to forgive what really served us a material that doesn't fit the reality, if that's what it is, huh? And, therefore, we should prove and demand that this bid is reversed. With regard to low contracting, low contracting parties, I come from the 2017 pressupost, and 2018 we found the 2017 pressupost, and 2019 we found the 2017 pressupost, okay? That's what we have. What's important is that 2018, between June 2nd, that I was a counselor, and October 3rd, that there was-there was boxing, intermig, you have to appoint a team; people make vacations in August– because the August fan vacations the workers, huh? – means that in two months and a half we practically executed 98 per cent of the assumption, in this case, of the General Directorate of Fire Prevention and Fire Extinguishing. So, it's what we have, and what we have, we've reversed everything we've been able to and we've done it as quickly as possible. As far as we're concerned, if he was counting on them or not counting on them, I think that with the mayors... we followed the strategy of this fire concretely with the mayors and mayors and the people involved, to hear us, huh? – regional councils, including representatives of the parliament..., who did it –, we did a couple of, three daily briefings with them; we did two, three daily briefings, in which, therefore, there was information from the past and feedback: the bombers explained to us, the commander responsible explained what was going on and where they wanted to go, and then the municipal representatives who were also moving "we have this problem here, we have there..., right? , and from here it went very well. So I think it's a strategy that needs to be followed. But from here there are people who are not firefighters or are not personal with security and emergencies, who have a fire perimeter, which I'm telling you, we won't do. The people who enter, by many hunters and who know the territory, would not enter a fire until the bombers authorized it. Therefore, it is not a matter of the hunters accompanying us, the veins of the masses..., it is a matter of a bomber, or who authorizes them, wandering. And I'm also taking advantage of the fact that a software designed for the same firefighters that accompanied us across the fire and was of great use in this fire. Therefore, once again, the Bomber Cos has adapted, a computer tool has been made to deal with this fire, and I think that, therefore, it is also one of the successes of this fire, this new tool that surely served us... – sure, no, sure – that served us to extinguish it, and, if not, work it much more intensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.202.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the actions of the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food in relation to the management of the territory]] [[300-00157/12]] Let's move on to the next inquiry, which is about the actions of the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food in relation to the management of the territory, inquiry submitted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance. The presentation by Mr. Óscar Ordeig. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.203.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, councillor, members of the Government who accompany us... Councillor, for what reasons do we present this inquiry on the management of the territory by the Department of Agriculture, in short, by the Government? There has now been an analysis of the fire extinguishment, but we believe that this is what was left of it, this reflection was left of it if we did not also reflect on the management of the territory. How do we have the territory? How can we prevent situations such as the fire of the Ebre River, the Segria, the Garrigues, from repeating in the future, or other similar catastrophes, in the face of the problem, the difficult problem we have today? We have a tough land management problem. I suppose we'll agree on that. We have a problem of lack of territorial look of their government companies, also of other administrations, in short, I believe it is a problem of centralist look, of look, sometimes, not integral, of the policies that affect the territory. And the decision making is done with a few parameters that today are not working or are not well adapted to the circumstances that we are living. This fire, this heavy fire has exposed the critical situation or abandonment of many lands, of many woods, of many territories, and the lack of opportunities. Interestingly, this time yes, of a disgrace indeed there has been a reflection in many communication media on those territorial elements that are not working. And therefore, first of all, our solidarity with those affected by the fire, our thanks to the pocket of professionals, volunteers, people, in conjunction, of the territory, which has fought against this fire. A disgrace that has caused many to have opened their eyes, as I said, from the precarious situation, from the difficulties of many parts of the territory. And why did this happen? How can we prevent this from happening again in the future? So, first of all, they are aware that we have two million hectares in Catalonia, most of which are forests, a 64_percent of forests, 30_percent of conreus, 5_per_cent of urban areas. And this has an important management complexity, but this is also an important government challenge. And that ends up being a reptile of a country, that 80 percent of the territory is rural, rural areas, that's what we say, but it's the country, it's practically the country's conjunction, and it's certainly impossible to make a country, to make an economy, to grow and to progress, without taking into account this great territory. With an increase worrying about territorial inequalities. Never as we now have, has it been too long that we do not have an increase in territorial inequalities as we now have territorial cohesion – we always talk about social cohesion, which is important, but territorial cohesion too – at these times it is broken. And every day the opportunities that large metropolitan areas have with the rest of the territory are more unequal. As well, a problem of lack of coordinated response between the governments of the State, of the European Union, as well as public administrations working in the territory, between Catalonia. We believe that the government has not prioritized enough or not coordinated enough with this objective. And, therefore, we also say, Counselor, here we will not come to make a long list of getting to the detail of all the concrete actions that need to be done to try to pull this forward, that we could do, that we have done in some motions, and that we are obviously asking for his compliment. For what we come here for is to give your hand to try to agree on a strategy. We did it two years ago – and you know it – with the pact of the inter-departmental commission, led by the Department of Agriculture and coordinated with the Department of the Presidency, so as to fight against depopulation. But we believe that apart from the creation of this committee, it has been done a little or very little to complete its objectives. The economic crisis, the retail trade, globalisation, economic recovery, climate change have affected the country unevenly, and have affected rural areas in a more severe way. This caused a major abandonment. The crisis in the agricultural sector, the crisis in the branching sector, which, above all, has affected small and medium-sized farmers, which has caused them to fall on behalf of Catalonia, and therefore a food sector which is growing very much, but obviously suffers a lot from the weaker side, which are the food producers, the branches, which have special difficulties to pull forward. And what caused us this situation? Why did this fire get worse? So, because there are many areas of Catalonia that with depopulation, with aging and over-enveloping and with impoverishment..., have led to it being emptied or in the process of being emptied from many parts of Catalonia. As I have said many times, and I am not tired of repeating, private investment is concentrating on big capital. Each time, larger companies investing in large capitals, and public investment has also fallen for retailing, scale economies, so it is often concentrated in a progressive re-centralisation of public services, from public spending to large capitals, where there are large clusters of infrastructure, public services and economic activity. Therefore, this generates a perverse – perverse – effect on the quality of life of people who live in rural areas, and who are those we have to fix for the territory, who are those who are to help us manage, revitalize the territory, and prevent fires and prevent more problems. Also a very strict regulation – surely we will agree – but we need to find the glider to try to make sure that this is not the case: rigid regulation, administrative procedures and bureaucracy much thought for large cities and little thought for small municipalities! Many of the municipalities in our home are at risk of disappearing because they are very small and are losing people; therefore, they do not have opportunities. Who's leaving? Young women, families... Therefore, a municipality that has little population and that even more loses its youth, has no future. And what was the government supposed to do? We have already presented, as I said, a proposal on April 2017. The inter-departmental commission has done it, of course. Then I'll say, what else has happened? Just a little bit more. A parliamentary subcommittee was requested for the rural world and territorial cohesion. It didn't happen. A space for reflection was called for, and all public administrations were called upon to coordinate actions. It didn't happen. That the departments of the Generalitat draw up reports with this territorial look that we have asked for; the socioeconomic observatory of rural areas; a local financing for specific rural areas; fiscal and financial measures; better mobile coverage; school transport to aggregate nuclei... – school transport to aggregate nuclei. I put this issue because, I say, whether or not it depends on whether or not the Department of Education is living, we are going very badly. So it's a vital issue for the territory, and it doesn't cost so much money. Reversing retail or boosting the local economy, or wildlife saves, to put another clear example, which we approved in 2017. Or, then, more recently Ciutadans's motion, the generation of the 19th, which said that a calendar was established; that it was approved to establish a calendar every two years, of concrete actions. It's okay; it's okay to plan. Or recover paths, reverse paths and recs; habitat; reinforce the role of mountain hospitals; recover 40_percent of the lost agricultural budget; bet for renewable energies; forest profit – very and very important–, great pending assignment, as we compliment the General Forest Policy Plan 2014-2024. Cal a review, cal a repositioning and can bet on it with the necessary resources. International events – we have not had clear examples. It turns out that Barcelona can do everything, and it turns out that the territory can't do anything. We want to make a big event and everyone is clear that Barcelona can't let itself be lost, and we see as the territory there are still problems, because, clearly, they are still, therefore, limitations of all kinds. So... as we also talked about generating business clusters, we try to get every territory to have its industry and economy adapted or to improve the food chain: fair prices, proximity products..., and that it also connects with the activity of the rural world. I believe that, if we have not incomplete all these points, the results obtained from the government's management have not been the right ones. And, therefore, our day, man, was the interdepartmental commission, for the government, did August 2017 in charge of Councillor Serret? Yeah. But then we see that for two years there was nothing else, it was a new meeting on the February of 2019, and then we see that now the President... We wanted to assume this compromise the same President, now we see that July of 19th seems that the President has not agreed, he went through the territory and the people say to him: "Look, President, this is not going, we have to go. Today we have fires, but tomorrow we have depopulation and tomorrow we do not have opportunities, and therefore we have to do something. We seem to be unaware, but neither do we see that there is accurate planning, definite assumptions, and concrete actions to try to reverse this. In any case, as time was running out, then, I will finish the rest of my intervention on the next turn of intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.204.0	Thank you, Congressman. The answer, on behalf of the Government, is made by the Agriculture Adviser, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordà. When he wants to, he'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.205.0	Well, very late. Thank you all very much. Thank you, Congressman and friends, Mr. Ordeig. It's a note that you're a local, too, huh? We could practically be 100 percent in agreement with what he said. I believe that in the background yes, in the forms, with some will allow me not, but rather, before entering into some of the details that he has done, and that something will crush him, too, in the turn of the line, let him say yes, that from the start we have a problem, but we have a problem as society. And these days I've had the opportunity to explain it, and today I have the opportunity, too, because it's the first time I'm here to make an inquiry, which I thank, despite what I have to say, I have to say and I want to say that it's sad that we're already talking about what we're talking about because the south of the country is cremated, huh? Unfortunately, thank you, for giving us the opportunity to do so here in Parliament too. I told him we had a problem, and we have him as a society. Actually, so did the government, this government, but so did the previous government. And, if I may, I'll tell him that he had the previous one, including the government that you led. Because governments, in short, Mr.Ordeig – and you know it perfectly – are nothing but the reflex of society they want to represent. We all have a problem. There is a brutal, first-class disaffection between the urban and rural worlds, and I know there are no twelve councillors and a president of towns. We have a problem, like society. That's what I'm saying. That said, a little more than a year ago – let me also explain it – we presented the actions of the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, from the government floor, in the mark of this dozenate legislature, and did so to the Committee on Agriculture, in which you obviously also were there. We wanted to mark two great axes, which are the same axes that we already, in fact, inherited from the councillor, friend, and today in exile, Meritxell Serrat. The first, the feed shaft. A healthy diet, a safe diet, a quality diet. This means that the Catalan people, in the medium and long term, have physical and economic access to a sufficient and nutritious diet, according to the need for food for a healthy and active life. In short, also more and better food sovereignty. And one thing is, no less important, and that you... in fact, is a little bit the protagonist of this inquiry, which is territorial cohesion. Because, in order to guarantee this access that he spoke, it is necessary, sense of doubt, to have a cohesive territory. As rural areas are, therefore, of stable wealth and occupation, and not only stable occupation but also quality occupation. With regard to territorial cohesion, they think that the department speaks of a country, and when it speaks of a country, it always does, always, integrating the whole of our communities and our peoples, because it would not feel like doing it in any other way. In short, the political names of the country are if our territory is contemplated, if not, not that we are talking about the country, we are talking about Barcelona, we are talking about the metropolitan area, we are talking about the second crown, the third, but we are not talking about the country. If we speak of a country, we speak of a country of truth – of truth. And the department has the ability to speak of a country with knowledge of reality and, moreover, not only of reality but also of the territory. It is in a context like what we live in, of global change, of permanent change, that we live more than ever in a rural world. It is indisputable, it is indispensable, because the rural world makes society, fael monde rural, likes more or less, sense dubte, makes country. You said: "They have done nothing from the department. Miri, from the government, respects territorial cohesion, we can talk about it. From the department, I explain it to you, very telegraphically, why, do you know what's going on? That with a minute, Mr. Ordeig, I won't have time. Look, it's a little bit more than a month ago, and you know it, because it contributed, and I know it, and I know it's one of the happy and satisfied people because we're going to pull it out, we're going to approve the Law of Agrarian Spaces in this room, a law that no one has ever done, and that, as a result of the South of the country, this council has had the opportunity to explain it to the media, huh? I want to do it too... – that I also took advantage of to explain to him now that he'd cremate the south of the country and that someone would do us a little bit of a case, huh? Remember, we have a society problem, a disaffection between the rural world and the urban world; it doesn't have a problem just the government or the previous governments, it has the sensible country. So I didn't do it either: the new decree on soil and manure fertilizer management, huh? That the government approved last week. It is a vital decree, vital for the sustainability of the environment, important, and vital also for the sustainability of the country, and above it guarantees, moreover, not only the viability but also the sustainability of agricultural farms and branches of the Catalan sector. Water policy; we can talk about it, because here I would be very much. Positioning – you also know it – is a clear, clear country position that respects the new model of the CAP, eh? , which we have obviously agreed with the sector. Cooperativism, I know you like it, too, huh? , the essential role of cooperatives in our country. Here you know perfectly well that they have this essential role in the economic and social development of our world, of this rural world, and an absolutely direct link with the territory, and also for the values in which they operate and in which these principles of republican solidarity are supported, in which, as it cannot otherwise be, we believe. They are an engine to guarantee, obviously, the existence of this competitive and innovative agri-food sector, and therefore in this 2019 – in this 2019 – we have called for aid for a total of 6,045,000 euros. Adviser to the Women, how can it not be otherwise; it is a sector where the women have always been invisible but where the women are, eh? And for us, it is important to talk about the women, the pages, the ramaderes, the fishermen. Here we are doing a lot of work. In forestry, therefore, we are also working on the definition of a new strategic forest plan that is capable of mobilising, above all mobilising environmental capital, social capital, as well as economic capital, of our forests, and we are doing so with the hands of the owners, the workers, the Administration, always under this umbrella of cohesion. We do not decide otherwise that all sectors concerned are secure in the same table and we are fine. Català de l'Aliminanza Council, which will lead us to a national pact for food policy. We have also made and opened up new opportunities to the territories contributing directly or indirectly because the farms are more viable. Here, Decree of direct sale of raw milk, Decree of commercialization of game meat; we are processing the Law of Catalonia wine, etc. I don't want to finish, because I'm running out of time – I'm telling you, huh? I've missed a lot, Mr. Ordeig, but we go into detail when I want to – without mentioning the fire that some days ago cremated the comarques, as I said, from the south of the country. Since the department we have been working since the very day of the fire to meet all the needs of the sector, which are many, and which we have not already announced: we are proceeding to the opening..., in fact, we are not proceeding to the opening of a technical office to centralize and agile all the formalities – you were talking about bureaucracy, I agree – but we have already opened it, and we have not created any more... Now I look at the citizens' companies, eh? , which, with which you never possessed it directly with me, I now pose with you; it is to say, that of "siringuitos that you like so much to say. So we didn't open the door, we took advantage of the local office to make this technical office, and the people we already have in the territory. I say that with all due respect, huh? We also want to set fire measures, I know what you've been through. You're important. We are not ashamed to put ourselves in red; there are things that have not been done in this country. We do them, but we do them, and if the Agriculture Department has to do them and this councillor will do them. I also want to put in value and to thank, as it cannot otherwise be, the great pocket, ingenious, immense, realized for the Cos of Rural Agents and for the groups of forest defense, these volunteers that we always have, in this country of volunteers, in this country of solidarity, that realize a very important work of prevention throughout the year, and obviously, also, as it cannot be otherwise, to the Cos of Bombers, Mossos d'Esquadra, System of Medical Emergencies, that also realize a great work of support and extinction. And, besides, I don't want to leave myself – I don't want to leave myself – the protagonists, in both ways, are preventing and extinguishing, that there aren't many of them either. And do these know who they are? It's the pages, it's the rowers and it's the veins, which these days have fought tirelessly – tirelessly – against the flames. And now, I finish this first intervention with a geographer's reflection, like it can't be any other way, gyro, huh? , which is said Joan Nogué, who says: "I would like to think that we are after the lesson and that by the end we understand that the territory is no more a commodity, and that in disfigure the face, the landscapes, we also disfigure ourselves as the people, as the country, as the birth. Every time that is cream a forest, every time that is cream a part of the territory, we also disfigure ourselves not only as society, as people, but also as the country. So, so, in the rural world, it's not just you and me, Mr. Ordeig, not just you and me, and some of the others, let me, huh? , also this Parliament, society in general and governments, that do nothing but represent society, because the rural world is society and, as I said before, society does this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.206.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, it's the deputy's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.207.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, thank you for the answer. I did not take this as a great criticism of the Department of Agriculture, because, as you said, in the diagnosis we agree in a large part of the reflection on how things are to be done, but you are the interlocutor and the spokesman of the Government, right? in this sense, to say: « Listen, what the government is doing at the full level throughout Catalonia and – I would say more – « with the great challenge of the future that Catalonia has. The great challenge will be this: how we manage the territory, how we manage these democratic movements that there are. And, therefore, the criticism not so much for the department as for the government, to say: "Are we doing enough? Can you do more? Can it do better? And our answer is yes. Obviously, we're asking for help with the five-thousand-thousand-hectare creams, and we know that there's already been coordination with the administrations, and we've started the paperwork. Yesterday there were some losses quantified in 5.5_million in the amethyst and olive grove sector. Therefore, here too, but above all as we try to look a little further; as we try to do things better; as we try, counsel, apart from everything that you have said to me..., as we try that the Department of Education, in its public policies, has a territorial look, a territorial discrimination, if it is very urgent, as we can do the same with Health, as we can do the same with social services, as we can do the same with Territories, as we can do the same with Interior. You know this: you take decisions, because there are also many difficulties, because there are also many emergencies, but you take decisions without taking into account this territorial look. What's going on in other places? Miri, after us, in 2017, the Valencian Community approved an interdepartmental commission, after us. But then they've gone much further. They have approved various decrees and lines of help to fight against depopulation, specific help to small communities that lose population. France and Italy have adopted measures. Some have worked better, others worse. It's not an easy solution, on the contrary, it's a very difficult situation. This is a challenge of all governments, of which there are now, of those who have come and of those who will come, but it is true that the premise is a priority. And you want me to tell you when we're talking about regs, paths, inversions? You know that from 2010 we have lost but 80..., between 80 and 85_percent of the investment expense in rural areas, a 86_percent decrease in the investment expense in regions, a similar decrease in the best of our paths. So, you say..., and the Generality's premise hasn't dropped an 80_per_cent. So, what can we do to reverse this? We need to go to the conference of autonomous presidents, because we are talking there about how we coordinate actions to fight against depopulation and defend a position in Europe. This is not just a problem in Catalonia, it is a problem that is in the whole of Spain and it is a problem that is in many territories of Europe. Therefore, joint and coordinated action will be needed. Another example of what we say: what happens if a person has a disability in Barcelona – now there is the counselor – and what happens if that person has a disability and lives in a village in the Vall d'Aran? So he has a problem and his family. So, what do we propose? As I said before, involvement of the government council, councillor, involvement of the government council, with the president in the lead, giving comprehensive response to rural areas, integral, not uncoordinated, not unity. Establish a schedule of concrete actions, with funding. We won't do it all the same day, but we'll make a calendar this year. Coordinate actions with all administrations. You know, the deputies do a tourist promotion each of their territories different from the coast; the district councils, three-quarters of the same. Who should lead a joint response and add effort, the few or many we have? The Government of Catalonia, the Government of the country. We believe, at least, in proposing fiscal measures and financing for our own to reverse depopulation. The battery of legislative measures; we bet, for example, on a law of the rural world, or a law of the rural school, or help or help lines of small gatherings to avoid depopulation. Finally, because I was running out of time, as I concluded, we want a country that does not go at two speeds, with citizens first and second; we do not want a country with great economic, social and cultural costs for the impoverishment, abandonment and loss of its territory; we want a country that is ready and balanced, not a centralist and unequal country. And, above all, we want a government, our government, the government of all, that devotes efforts, that devotes attention, that devotes resources to the struggle against depopulation in favor of the progress not only of the capitals but of the conjunction of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.208.0	Thank you, Congressman. It's the Councilwoman's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.209.0	Well, Mr. Ordeig, so we're almost on board, huh? I already liked the point; it was said, in the end, it seemed to me that in one of his sentences he said: "The Department of Agriculture has not done much. Now I understand that yes, that he agrees, that the Department of Agriculture is leaving our hair there, as it cannot be otherwise, because we represent who we represent. There's something else that's not good enough, because, you know what's going on? , that this department manages at these times in a inherited way the 1_per_cent of the country's presupposition. Of course, the 1_percent of the country's budget, and I assure you that I do not make magic, nor my directors-general, but it really can be said that something must be doing well, because we are doing a lot of things – because we are doing a lot of things – all of us in the hands of the sector and all of us in concert with you and the different parliamentary groups; I have to say that we are almost all, with all the parliamentary groups. I propose... I don't know, huh? And maybe it's a little distressed, and I didn't commit myself to any of my government partners, but I proposed it, I'm doing it; in fact, not just the PSC, but I'm doing it to all the groups you're in this room. We do one thing: if a server is capable, in the presentation of the assumptions for 2020, why by 19, say so, there should no longer be in time, right? , to double..., well, to double is a little distressed, 30-40 million euros more for the department that you occupy us today, but more to more cross-cutting policies in other departments – because you have all the reason for the world, that's not just since this department, and sometimes they're not resources, huh? But obviously we won't have to put resources in the rest of the departments of my companies and companies, you approve of our assumptions. [[Greetings.]] If I know how to do this... [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, we'll talk about it – we'll talk about it. First we have to introduce them, I know. When we present them, which I hope I will not fail, we will discuss them. But I assure you... And more of that benefits us all, because... And I repeat, it's sad that, if we can get this turn – if we can get this turn – that's what it's been for in this country. But listen, in the end, things happen. So let's take our best chance. Here it is, huh? Mr. Ordeig. But let's talk about it. Of course, I understand it's to talk about it. He spoke of this interdepartmental committee, which I understand and know that they promoted from the Socialist Party, and that Councilwoman and Companion Meritxell Serrat took the glove and, in fact, created it. You seemed to me, first of all, that I said that we had not called him again, and it is true that he said it, that we had called him; in fact, we are about to call him again. But I will also give another thought. I personally – it's my way, at least from what I've worked on – and like you, I come from the municipal world and it seems to me that it's an important thing. I don't know if we're in time for so many commissions, if we're in time for so many spaces of reflection... and I say it with all respect for the space of reflection and for the commissions, huh? And you who are Members know that you are in a thousand spaces of reflection, in three thousand commissions. I don't know if it's so interesting that we make three thousand more observers. I don't know if there's any more studies going on. I don't know if we can conjure up with more promises. At the last Interdepartmental Commission of the Depopulation I had the pleasant surprise, which in fact did not have to alienate me, that the majority of directors general and directors of other departments of the Government knew perfectly well all who were the problems of the territory. It's just that we're here to grab deputies from every county, and we don't have anyone who's in trouble, we all know them. Study. Resources, compromises. Resources, political compromises of country, of society. Obviously from the government... and from parliamentary groups. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, and the first one's the government's tea, huh? I'm clear about that. No! No! Clear. I'll take care of it, I'll do what I can, but I remember: 1_percent of the presuppost– 1_percent of the presuppost. Let's make this effort. I'm asking them, because if we don't do it all, it won't be any good, either compromise or compromise, for my department or for the department that I have the honor of captivating. I trust that all this is not left in a bluff, that it is not only the fruit of this evil fire, and that we certainly no longer need to talk so much about depopulation but we need to talk about many more joys in our territory because it will mean that our country is winning there. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.210.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on rural Catalonia]] [[300-00159/12]] The next question to the Government is about rural Catalonia, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr Marc Parés, when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.211.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs... councilwoman, she's done her job and I'm actually celebrating it. Well, our parliamentary group was asking Councilman Buch about the precarious situation of emergency services in Catalonia, and we put on the table the need to implement a plan of action in order to cope with an estuary that we all knew would be complicated. And, sadly, the fire of the Ribera d'Ebre, therefore, has demonstrated this reality. I want to start this intervention, so I would like to thank and recognize the task developed in this fire for all the public servants and for the citizenship of the territory that has started to support the management tasks. And starting with Counselor Buch and Counselor Jordan, because we know it's been a tough day. Once again, as I said before, a catastrophe has set us in front of the Mirall to make us see the structural deficiencies that we have as a country, to remind us of rural Catalonia, of Catalonia eternally obliterated and now also emptied, without which we are nothing. And about that we want to ask the government today and we want to do it constructively, because this is a country debate. Basically because without rural Catalonia there is no country project that is worth it. "The woods are raw and when a fire starts, it's very hard to stop. "The simultaneous nature of different fires means that we have no means of extinction to deal with it. These are two expressions we've heard these past few days, but do you know where I've been dealing with them? So I've got them on TV3 and Spanish Television on July 4, 1994. It's been twenty-five years. Then they cremated 45,000 hectares of the counties of Vallès Oriental, Vallès Occidental, Bages and Bergedà, among others. There is no doubt that the extinction media and the extinguishing capabilities of the Bomber Cos have improved much during this time, but have we advanced in the area of territorial management and forest management? The reality is that we now have more hectares of forest surface and more fuel in forests that are more homogeneous and more continuous and here we have to add the effects of climate change. The result is, therefore, that we are today in a more vulnerable country. The causes were also mentioned before: depopulation, population aging, abandoned agricultural land, and above all public and private disinvestment in many territories where it is every time more difficult to live there. Mirin, in the last two years the population of Catalonia has grown 250,000 inhabitants but there has been a division between the Comarques and the Aran, so almost half the territory where the population has decreased: the Alt Urgell, the Alta Ribagorça, the Bages, the Lower Ebre, the Bergedà, the Cerdanya, the Conca de Barberà, the Garrigues, the Montsià, the Noguera, the two Pallars, the Priorat, the Ribera d'Ebre, the Ripollès, the Solsonès, the Terra Alta and the Urgell. It is from this Catalonia that I want to speak to you today, councillor, of the empty Catalonia, of the Catalonia of the Lands of the Ebro, of the Ponent, of the Pirineu and of good part of the Central Catalonia and of the Camp of Tarragona. This empty Catalonia is also the impoverished Catalonia, both for what it does to productivity and for what it does to family income available. We need to be aware once and for all that inequality has a geographical dimension and that it speaks about the territory. An inequality that does not only impact certain metropolitan barrels, but also affects very significantly the conjunction of rural Catalonia. And here we are very clear: as a brave and determined bet for territorial equity. Regardless of where you are in Catalonia, you must be able to access the same income levels and the same services. It cannot be that practically 30_percent of the territory does not have mobile phone coverage; it cannot be that there are population clusters without running access; it cannot be that there is a part of our country that has enormous difficulties accessing basic services such as a school, a hospital or a library. Counsel, what does your government do to fight against territorial inequality? Because the reality is that resources for rural development have fallen dramatically in recent years. And the immediate future doesn't look good. In fact, only thirty-five municipalities have been listed as areas with natural limitations and sixty-six municipalities have lost this catalog; most of them, by the way, in the Ebre River, in the Garrigues and in the Segria. And this greatly limits Europe's capacity for resources, and this has happened because the Generality has not facilitated, because it does not have, the productivity data at the municipal level of the last five years. Do you already have these data, Counselor? Are they working? Miri, we are committed to a territorial development that puts local communities at the centre; that diversifies the economy of these territories; that gathers socially innovative initiatives and above all that understand that the primary sector is basic for the socio-economic balance of the country because urban life cannot be sustained without the green infrastructure from which rural Catalonia provides us. So agriculture, rambling, forestry must be viable and must have a vertebrate role of the territory and landscape, and that is why we are proposing. First. We think we can move on to a price just agrarian, because producers can live. Certainly, Mr Ordeig, for us the price of the tomato and all the agricultural products is very important, and his speech, I know hard, but he loses credibility when his party continues to name a pyromenon like Mr Borrell for public responsibility. [[Widow's remorse.]] Back to the topic, Preus' Agri-Food Observers is the main tool we can use from the Generality, a mechanism of objectivity and transparency, but the problem is that the observer only incorporates a few products; it can develop it for all sectors. You committed yourself to doing so, counsel, to the beginning of the mandate, and I also ask you how you have this subject. But not only that, the Law of Interprofessional Agri-Food Organisations, approved in 2015, enabled it so that within the maximum of one year an order regulating the process of the recognition of producer organisations has been issued; it has been four years since this and this order does not exist. That doesn't cost you, Counselor, and it's all about you. These two questions, the observer and the order he was commenting on, are fundamental in order to be able to advance towards a just agricultural price, because it is in this way, with an objective reference price and with organizations that can make typical contracts based on these prices, as we can advance in these directions. Second. Labelling and information and traceability is key because consumers can sort out proximity products, products that need to be valued not only for their lower environmental impact, but also for their quality and to be healthier. The Food Chain Law is a good law, but I need to apply it, and that's why we also ask him how many sanctions his government has imposed on large food distributors so that they don't label products. Third. Support grubbing up, rural entrepreneurship, small producers and varietal conversion to adapt the sector to climate change. Fourth proposal: to deploy the recently approved Law of Agricultural Spaces, and in this sense we want to know with what timetables work for the Agricultural Sectoral Territorial Plan, and also if they intend to develop some specific plan, and if so, for which territories and for when. We would also like to know with which calendar work to set aside the register of agricultural parcels and branches in use and which actual impact you expect to have this register in land recovery, because at the fire of the Ebre River on 20_per_cent were conreus but about 40_per_cent were land in use. Certainly, counsel, I must also say that our group hoped that yesterday the Government would pass a law of immediate repositioning measures, among which we understand that very important are those who have to do with the Reg. Five. The most important thing for us is the model, because the question is not just about resources, which is, but what is the model of agriculture and ramaderia that they want to promote from their department? Is it a model of agriculture and industrial, intensive, contaminating and highly resource consuming, or is it the model of agriculture and local, extensive and quality products? For us, this is the key. And this is an eminently political issue, and therefore we also ask if you are willing to stand up to the great oligopolises of distribution and agro-industry. And I end up where I started, for forest management. The forest must be produced, it must be exploited, but it must also be managed, and this must be done from the ecology and the landscape, and it must be done in value for the social and environmental function that complements our forests, and it is precisely this multifunctionality that can be made of really productive forest spaces. Last week we learned that the Supreme Court has declared the Forest Policy Plan 2014-2020 suspicious, and we want to ask him in which state the new plan is being redacted, if he will do with a participatory process, if he will preserve a minimum of 5_percent of the forests for the natural evolution, if he will promote multifunctionality, if he will boost the recovery of forest habitats with a key ecological paper, such as the banks or connecting spaces. Because this morning, counsel, you have made some statements to Catalonia Radio that, frankly, have worried us a lot, and I end up asking you if you really believe that the problem of the lack of forest management in Catalonia is the protected species and the natural spaces with special protection. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.212.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make the answer has the word Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordà Counsellor. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.213.0	Thank you again, President; thank you very much, Member. Thank you, Mr Parés, for ending this reflection, because today in Catalonia Radio, and now I will reproduce it and... well, what do I have to explain to you, huh? When they make statements and there is sometimes an intention to take them out of context. Listen to me, I've set the following example today – I don't know if I'm going to say it exactly, huh? But surely I will say less politely – I have come to say, to explain that we had a problem between the rural world..., there was this disaffection with the urban world, in fact, two different realities, two different paradigms..., I have come to say that what could not be..., and here we should try to find a balance between all, and I repeat it because, I feel, I do, but I grow so, and I don't seem to feel that anyone is upset, what it cannot be is that after the Agriculture Department we ask to make a clarification of a forest, to make a broken one, to make a concrete management, to certainly settle down. Because, of course, when the Department of Agriculture asks this is because, previously and technically, someone – forest engineers, technicians, environmentalists – considers that there must be a management. That's to say, it's not because Councilwoman Jordan says, "No, these trees are too shaded and they can't touch the sun; no, that's not the criteria. Then, what I understand is that it is not a waste is that you say no, warning that there is a protected species, er, not because the protected species is not to be protected, obviously, nor because we ask to tear down a huge forest, but because it is technically required that there, surely for fire risk issues, you do a management. Why, do you know what's going on? , that after the fire and no longer has heard of trees or protected species. That's what I've been trying to say; I must have done it with more or less fortune, but it seems to me, in the end, that it's finding the balance between these two realities and between these two mons, because it's certainly not going to want the woods without a tree, sure there's, well, isn't there? That biodiversity... okay, okay, all the debates you want, but in the end we have a problem, and this problem, in fact, is the miracle of what we find ourselves and what we're discussing today. This was the reflection and the turn to put the table down, I don't know if I'm more sure or if I'm still stuck with it, but in any case that's what I've tried to say today at the country's public radio station. After Mr. Ordeig's inquiry, Mr. Parés, allow'mque..., I'll try, I don't know if I'll go messy, eh? because it's actually very exciting – I have to say this too – to be here with two questions, one after the other. [[Rialles.]] It's just... no, no, no, it's what I have to say, because it's there... I've got the papers, "that's for Mr. Ordeig, that's for Mr. Parés. In any case, we are talking about the rural world, we are talking about agriculture in the country's parliament. I also place them that..., before, Mr.Ordeig, I wanted to say it – and I am convinced that Mr.Parés will also agree – that a monographic debate had been held, so why don't we do another one again? Maybe I don't know if in a context a little quieter, huh? But in any case it seems to me that it would be interesting..., very interesting not, for us defined, to do it, eh? And there it draws conclusions and, finally, make policies and pull forward. I'll try not to repeat myself, huh? I have already explained to you – and you know it perfectly well – that we have marked these two great axes, that of food and that of territorial cohesion, and consequently the policies we make them through these two great axes. I don't know if I'm wrong, Mr. Parés, but it seems to me that for the few times we've spoken, you like the numbers, don't you? It's a bunch of numbers, too. No, I'm saying that because I thought: "To Mr. Parés, well, we'll explain four numbers, because they're also important and they're also... I think they reflect a lot. An important part of the implementation of the strategic policies of the rural world is the management of aid, huh? That's defined, actually it's important, both Europeans and their own resources, huh? Suppose it's almost..., or more than 390 million a year. And here, if you'll excuse me, then I'll stop for a moment and donate these four dice, huh? Of these 390 million, 270 million and mig, 270 million and mig, they correspond to direct aid from the CAP, eh? , aid from which we call the first pillar, which is basically used to support farmers' income to ensure the economic viability of farms. It's important. In the end we will agree if we say that the first one we have to try for our sector is that those who have decided to falsify themselves in the territory and stay in the territory can earn their lives and can earn it with dignity. So they go straight to the rent. The rest of the import, which is 122_million_i_mig, corresponds to the second pillar help, and these are granted in what we know as the PDR, huh? , and they are these 2014-2020 aids – now it is already, once again, reviewing them –, addressing better, in this case, the sustainability and competitiveness of these farms and the dynamism of the rural economy, which is where I want to go. Also in this program, and it's also one of the DARP's objectives and it's one of the things that you directly or indirectly set up, and also Mr.Ordeig..., is old for the continuity of operations. That's to say, if the farms don't have generational replenishment, so, barely rai. And sometimes there is no generational replenishment... not sometimes, most times there is no generational replenishment, because the territory is not dynamic, and the territory is not dynamic because there are no politics. If the territory isn't dynamic because there's no politics, it's obvious that there's no opportunity. If there's no opportunity in the territory, it's impossible for people to stay and people to fail. This is why we are also helping from the department through the RDP to incorporate young people into the rural world. Let's say that during the 2017 campaign, 418 young people, who have been beneficiaries of an import of 12_million euros, have been given aid for the incorporation of 418 young people into the rural world, eh? In the past two years these aids have helped to integrate into the rural world 3,145 young people, putting an investment of 102_million euros, eh? I, in the band, in the first pillar there is also a complementary payment for young farmers, that 2017_has represented 1,700,000_euros, and that has benefited 1,196 young people. But we've done other things, these already with good resources, which I gave them before, huh? , with the 1_percent of the assumption, when problems have arisen in the sector, I think that bravely we have faced the hand of the sector as well. And I want to set a few examples, very quickly. For what he does to citrus, right? And, look, let's talk a little bit more about the Jew. I always say that if there is awareness in this country also of the products we make, that they are products without, sure and of quality..., because all of you want to think that they have tasted the citrics of the Jew and that they are my purest, in the best of senses. We have a problem if we're not as demanding as consumers and keep buying citrus from South Africa, huh? , fruit of that international convention for which..., well, here we are not extremely responsible, someone has so much brother that could have said something to him, but in any case... And while the people buy the South African taronja, the Ebre companies will sell it 8 cents per kilo. So we won't make a living, so we won't falsify people to the territory. So, well, for what he does to the citrus of the Lands of the Hebrews, we are due at this point in time a help to the producers to boost the economic circumscription. That's what we've done in the world of sweet fruit. And that's what we're doing to strengthen the sector before, in this case, the rise in imports, as I said, from South Africa. The economic circumstances, for which you do not know, are nothing other than an instrument that allows us to improve the marketing of sweet fruit, especially at times when there is a crisis of prices. We've done the same thing in the hazelnut sector, which is also going through a crisis, huh? On the margin of extraordinary aid, of almost 400,000_euros, we are working for the establishment of a technical office, which in fact is already ready, say, to falsify, because it manages the development of the strategic Pla of valorization of the hazelnut. I mean, not just politics with help, that's okay, huh? Because this sector we have to help, we have to pamper, and the sector we have to seduce and we have to fall in love with. It's also true that, if we're caps and we've been caps of making a re-evaluation plan of a product like that of the Avellana, we have to be caps of political making because if this plan tells us that if this fantastic product is viable – the Avellana Negro of Camp Tarragona, of Reus, is viable – then, man, we're in case of this study, huh? – all these studies that we have in so many calaixos–, and let's apply it, let's put resources to it and apply it. That's what this department does. I also wanted to talk to him about forestry policy, which is also true that it has weaknesses, not to deny things. Then, if I have a little more time, I'll do it. And for what he does to the fire, let's say that we've tried the best we've ever done, and we've put ourselves in the front, and more decided, huh? , to do two actions. The first, in an immediate way, to compliment... with immediateness all those people who have been affected. We're just quadrupling numbers because they'll have to adjust a lot, but this July we'll be extremely fixed. And then we'll do what I've also explained to Mr. Ordeig, this postendant, all those politics, among them many regals, in this case support, huh? Also immediately, to be ready and ready, because, as you know, we are in a Mediterranean climate, where the fires are inherent, and therefore we will not escape. Let's be more prepared for when they come, which, bigger or smaller, will end up coming.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.214.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.215.0	Yes; thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.216.0	Thank you. For the answer, it's the deputy's turn again. When you're ready, Mr. Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.217.0	Thank you, President. Well, thank you, Counselor. I'll start at the end, won't I? , on the subject of fire. We believe that it is urgent, because the subject of the support Reg does not only affect the lands that have been cremated, but also those that have not cremated but that the Reg has been damaged. Therefore, we believe that it is urgent for the government to make this decree law in order to begin issuing aid, as at least in this sense, also in the deforestation tasks of cremated matter. A few more thoughts, she would advise. We share that it is very important that consumers buy proximity products, local products, and that we put them in value. But neither can we convey the full responsibility for the territorial model that we have in Catalonia for consumers. That is to say, the public sector also has an important responsibility, and we are here to develop policies to change, to transform these dynamics. Therefore, we help or encourage consumers to consume products from here, but we also develop support policies. In this sense, it's also important what I gave him before, isn't it? I asked him about some specific questions. I mean, it's important to chase lobbyists, right? , the great oligopolises of distribution, which are the ones that originate in good part, therefore, this imbalance of price. And it is important, therefore, to pursue them when they do not label the products, because labelling is a key element because consumers can sort the products with quality, health criteria, right? , and close by. Therefore, we have a law that obliges us to do this, but they call for more resources to pursue those who do not complete it. I know that one part is not the department, the part that affects distribution yes, the part that affects consumption is the Catalan Consumer Agency, but we understand that it would be good, therefore, to pursue these more practical evils. Because in reality they are practical that lead to unfair competition, because to those who do label, who do do well the work, therefore, this also entails a cost overrun. For what it does to the resources, we share with you that it is regrettable that the assumption of the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia and Fisheries is only the 1,3_percent of the total expenditure assumption of the Generalitat, a assumption of 304_million euros, which increased in the assumption of 2017 slightly respect the one of 2015. But between 2010 and 2015 it had fallen with the retail 47_per_cent. Therefore, a department that is at the top of the departments and over the department also... one of those that was most affected by the retail. This clearly shows us who the government's priorities are. And in us, I said it the other day and I repeat it, you will find it more extensive to multiply the presupposition of the Department of Agriculture, no doubt. But it's that the assumption of the Generality is based on her partner councillor of the Vice-President, who's not my party, who's her party. Therefore, if you work with Mr. Aragones we will do whatever it takes to give him support and to claim this increase in resources. Anyway, it's not all a matter of resources. We believe that there is also a question of modeling, of what is the territorial model and what is the agricultural model and how we want the country. And in this sense it seems incompatible to us to talk about sustainable territorial development for a band, doesn't it? , and do so from the field of agriculture, in which we can very much agree, but at the same time enhance territorial investments or transformations such as Barcelona World, because it is another model of territorial development completely different from what we are proposing. I, of course, the purchase of the land of Barcelona World is 120_million euros, which is almost half the annual budget of the Department of Agriculture. Therefore, are we spending money to promote territorial development? Another question. It was also mentioned this morning, and it was done earlier, wasn't it? , this government project, the opportunity project of a «Living Country. Clearly, we have the feeling that this is going on the line of what you said was a stony, that in the end you are creating a commission to make a diagnosis, which seems perfect to me, right? We fully share the new form of governance, of dialogue with the territory, of diagnosis, of agreement with the territory, but in the end this must be accompanied by resources, because, if not, it does not serve as a king. Therefore, what we are proposing here very clearly is that they have resources for this project, in any case, and that they make a clear bet for a country plan, a territorial equity plan, which helps to reverse the territorial inequalities that previously commented on. And to end the issue of forest management, we have commented before some questions. We understand that to make forest management viable, it is also important to give a way out to forest productivity. And in this sense, the biomass bet, right? , for the generation of biomass energy can be an interesting bet. We know the strategic biomass plate that you have but it seems that it is insufficient and that it is not able to transform the territory as it requires. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.218.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to make the later reply, it's the Councilwoman's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.219.0	Yes; many thanks again, President. Shared responsibilities, all of them. It's like we're back on the same page, huh? It's a little mantra. I really appreciate it, Mr. Parés, that we remember managing the 1_per_cent of the premise and that it's obvious that it's impossible..., although we do a lot of things, huh? In the department, I believe, and I can say, and the more we can explain, the more we can corroborate, the more we can prove that we don't stop, because we have tools. Four days ago the Català Council of Food, to rethink our model of food production; important. It also has to serve us there, it concerns everyone – everyone – absolutely everyone. Working... in short, it's got to serve us, huh? , will derive from us in the National Food Pact. But this council, so, what it does... it has to be a little bit of something that brings us this pact, as I said, for Catalonia's food policies and moving towards more food sovereignty. The Law of Agrarian Thickness, which you also know perfectly, is a direct tool against depopulation. It is to say, directly, directly, absolutely, that it also works for the generational replete and to preserve those lands that have an other component agricultural produce, eh? That hadn't happened until now. It's a revolutionary law, even though it's done a little bit more. I think you're an important instrument. We have the strategic, important plan for the extensive branch that we are about to finish. We haven't explained it yet, have we? , but in any case we are in a position to apply it quickly to the Hebrew, to the Ribera d'Ebre, because I think it may be interesting. We are also working in coordination with other departments and with the Presidency to fight this rural depopulation. Now... and that's what I totally agree with you and I can't say "I won't refuse to say it, because I'm saying, say so, and more in your parliament." But, of course, if we don't have numbers behind us, then we'll do a little bit of work, because, despite the department, I also think that a little bit of this room, that you'll help us, if not from the Committee on Agriculture, we can do things, but you don't, huh? And, obviously, what we can't do is fruit, I repeat, of a conjunctural moment, like that of a fire, promise and make great proclamations and that doesn't accompany it with resources. And it's obvious that because it comes with resources first it has to be wanted and there has to be a policy, a series of policies decidedly to work against depopulation and everything that it entails, and then there has to be something else, which is a presupposition. But, well, we'll be in another war here. I can tell you myself that I respect forestry policy. You were talking about biomass. Completely okay, huh? The strategic plan contemplates it. But, if I may say so, I think we need to be more distressed and go a little further, huh? Biomass is very good, but biomass will not make our forests more profitable or much more profitable. I think that here – and we're studying and we're working on it and we're talking about it when we want to, even if we can do it..., it would be nice if we talked about it in comparison – we need to start thinking about the skirt as an important element in construction, for example, huh? There are many applications here and they are working there. And here obviously there are more resources for the middle than just working with biomass. It's like there's potential, it's been done in other countries. Actually, at this point it's a little bit of a face in the building, but, well, there are elements, he's studied there, and here we are. I mean, we also think we need to revalue it, the skirt and, ultimately, our forests. I was talking about the model. The model is clear. The model, we..., this department has it clear, and it's the sharing with the sector – the sharing with the sector –: we defend the professional farmer, the family member. Obviously we can't fight the markets and the globality and everything that this represents. Well, they can do a lot of fine-tuning politics. And when I talk to him about an economic circumstance in Ebre respecting the citrus sector, when I talk to him about Camp de Tarragona and I talk to him about a technical office and tossing out the re-evaluation plan of Avellana to Camp de Tarragona..., that's all political for this sector, for this people, for these families and for what they represent. And it is obvious that, if we are capable of producing products without, safe and of quality, sense of doubt – sense of doubt – this farmer, those who care and esteem the territory, sense of doubt, will marry. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-10-3501.220.0	Thank you, Counselor. After this inquiry we suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
