ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Question to the Government on the guarantee of freedom, effective equality and non-discrimination of LGBTI+ persons]] [[300-00101/12]] [[The next item is the question to the Government about the guarantee of freedom, effective equality and non-discrimination of LGBTI+ people. Presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the question was raised by Mrs Naomi de la Calle.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.2.0	Good morning, everybody. Before I begin, I would like to congratulate women's football for making history at the Wanda Metropolitan this Sunday, achieving a world record with the attendance of 60,739 people in a women's club match. We congratulate Atlético de Madrid on the example it has given, giving space to women's football in its stadium, rather than in the training camps or secondary camps, as it usually happens. And we are glad that the Spanish Real Sports Club has picked up the glove and next April 22 the girls play at RCDE Stadium; our congratulations to everyone, and to the World Championship this summer. Spain was one of the first four countries in the world to recognize equal marriage, and this is one of the many reasons that make us proud of being Spanish and living in a space of shared rights, such as Spain. As it also makes us proud to belong to a community like Catalonia, which has also been a pioneer in social progress, driven by civil society, as have the legislative initiatives of the guaranteed income of citizens, in which we were rapporteurs the councillor and myself, and the Law of Rights LGTBI. And although no one can deny that in recent decades much progress has been made in the recognition of the rights of the LGBTI collective, in the fight against discrimination, there is still a long way to go. In the last few days, we have known that the incidences recorded by the Observatory against LGTBIphobia in this first quarter of 2019 have doubled compared to 2018, with a total of thirty-five incidences; at the beginning of this month five of them were recorded in a single weekend. And we know that recently entities that are part of the observatory asked him to hold an urgent meeting in order to activate mechanisms that would end the situation of increasing violence towards the LGTBI collective, paying particular attention to the areas and times in which most attacks and incidents occur. Counsellor, in Catalonia we have a law that was a pioneer in Spain, approved in 2014, a useful tool but which has not yet taken advantage of its full potential, and that is why we wanted to do this inquiry, to highlight the work that has been done and, above all, to see what is still to be done. In this sense, awareness is only the first step, and here education is key. Changing attitudes requires very intensive educational work and the full deployment of article 12 on education. In early 2016, my partner Sonia Sierra conducted an inquiry that addressed prevention, detection and intervention in cases of school harassment, specifically to transgender students. In that inquiry we reported that it was the Chrysallis association that was having to go through schools distributing a protocol. And the subsequent motion unanimously approved the creation of a protocol for the care and support of transgender students. Do you know how long it has taken the Department of Education to do this protocol? More than two years; until the end of 2016 it has not published and hung on the web. So on the one hand we have an administration that is already late, not only with this protocol, but also with the protocol to deal with school harassment for reasons of affective orientation, gender identity or gender expression, and on the other hand we find that these protocols hang on a website, a circular is sent to the centers, and there is the end of the tour. And we don't just say that, but entities and professionals themselves warn us of the ignorance of these protocols. Because what is really needed is face-to-face training, and not a protocol hung on a web. More coordination is needed and effective enforcement of the law is ensured from its department. And this lack of coordination is due to a misinterpretation, to our understanding, on the part of your Administration, of Article 8 of the Law, which speaks of the policy coordinating body LGTBI. You say that the Generalitat Interdepartmental Commission of the LGTBI Area complies with this article, but this commission was already before the law. And this committee is not setting targets, does not assess the results achieved and has no proposals for improvement. The law says that the various departments of the Generalitat have to collaborate and coordinate with this body; er, it has to be independent, as claimed by the entities that drafted the law, and currently it is not. This body must regularly inform Parliament of the social impact of this law, in compliance with article 39, of statistical guarantee, but does not do so. The only thing they have done is a pseudo-report of the deployment of the law, but which does not comply with the provisions of article 39, on the preparation, periodic publication of statistics and qualitative studies relating to aggression and discrimination, complaints under this law, criminal complaints, administrative decisions, judicial decisions and their meaning. And when we asked him in writing about the studies they refer us to the interdepartmental plan of public policies LGTBI ; we look for it, and we find this [[the speaker shows a full camera]] : that it does not exist; that is, the website itself says that it is being developed. Nor is there any agreement, as stated in that article, with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary on the crime of hate crimes and discrimination data, to improve the public policies of the Administration. Already in 2017, a motion was approved, tabled by the deputy Marta Moreta, requesting a report on the social impact of the law and making public the evaluation of public policies developed by the Generalitat, and we are still waiting for that report. And it is that these data are essential for the development of public policies and that the service provided by the Administration is comprehensive, specific and specialized. And right now it's not, because it has a lot of shortcomings. The network of comprehensive care services that are being deployed needs specialized LGTBI technicians, needs lawyers, psychologists, social workers, and right now does not have enough specialized personnel in this field. Training, awareness-raising and education are essential to eradicate LGTBIphobia, but adequate attention is also needed. Particular attention needs to be paid to reparation, especially to combat the emotional and psychological impact of victims. We need real restorative justice, because if we do not repair the human rights violated in this kind of crime, we will not transform society. They have not yet signed the decree of the sanctioning regime. When are they going to do it? Because you can't go out for free, LGTBiphobia. And it is very shocking that the law that was admitted yesterday speaks of the validity of the sanctioning regime of the LGTBI law, when they have not yet published that decree. And they're wrong to want to repeal it, and it's funny that they want to repeal something they haven't approved yet. The sanctioning regime of the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Act in no case should derogate from that of this Act; and I will tell you why. This law needs specificity, and I'll give you a very graphic example: in a building there may be two people who need to go up to the second floor, and maybe you can't do it, one, because the building isn't accessible – that's one case – and another, you can't go up to the second floor because maybe in the first floor you're expecting a person with a baseball bat. You will understand that both situations cannot be addressed in the same way. That is why this sanctioning regime of this law, which they have to pass the decree, cannot repeal it with the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Act. On the other hand, we would like to ask you what training has been given to different professionals and administrative officials in the different departments of the Generalitat. Because the former councillor told us that we were working on a new training design, a specific design for the local police, for the Mossos d'Esquadra, for the security companies, a professional training design for all professionals in the homes of care for the elderly and a training design for teachers of educational institutions in Catalonia. Some training has been done in some sectors, but others have not, especially in the area of security. And we believe that it is necessary to have a protocol with a clear itinerary so that the Mossos d'Esquadra can collect all kinds of complaints, and that is what we are being asked by the entities that are currently accompanying the victims. And they also ask us for a specialized phone call 24 hours a day. Most attacks happen on the weekend in leisure spaces, and the victims, in these terrible situations, need a telephone to come to, where specialized people can guide them. Listen to the entities and create a working table to address this violence and work on the full deployment of this law. What is your Government's political commitment to the implementation of the law? Because I myself have taken the law and submitted a battery of questions, article by article, to know the status of their deployment. And at times his answers have failed to the truth, saying that they were carrying out policies that they really do not do, as is the case with article 21.d, which talks about developing specific strategies for the employment of transgender people; I was literally told that job integration programmes were being carried out for trans people, especially transgender women, and it turned out that the SOC did not offer any specific plans. Trans women have a very low employment rate, entities warn us that it is necessary to take measures to eliminate prejudices at the time of recruitment and to create specific plans to prevent marginalization and social exclusion. And, look, if you were to answer us that you have no resources, the discussion would be another, but what you can't do is you're doing some actions that you're not doing, because then you lose all credibility. There are many issues, it will be impossible to address everyone today, but I would like to focus on the health issue, and for a matter of time I will do so in the second intervention. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the turn, now, of the reply of the councillor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.4.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, I will begin the first part of the answer to the question of the Member of the street, adding a little bit to the reflection on the history that has been made in the matter of the compliment of the rights, and of the rights around the diversity that we have as a society, which is very large, and specific in the LGTBI collection, in an area that is key, that is the identity of gender and sexual orientation, and as in many things we can feel proud as a society. Because, as I said yesterday – and I made it very clear – when we look at the lookout and when we talk about child abuse and assault, it's those looks that we have to worry about as a society, we also have to worry about all the mechanisms of the LGTBI, but I think that as a society we have been pioneers in many cases around the fight against discrimination and around rights, human rights, civil rights, close to all people in the LGTBI collection: since the 91st, when the No Law Proposition on non-discrimination of people by reason of sexual choice is approved, in 97, there are many municipalities in this country that start the first public policies on the rights of homosexuals in the Parliaments in 2005, and in 2005 there is no law on non-discrimination of people by reason of sex. And we could go on, because I think we are all aware of what the 2007 National Council of Lesbians, Gais and Homes and Bisexual and Transgender Donations in the running of the National Council of Lesbians, a national council that, in the deployment of the 2014 law, has been adapted and adapted by government decree, in the late winter of the past year – one of the commitments I took here and that has been updated – or what the Law meant in 2014 to guarantee the rights of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenders and intersexuals and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia, and transphobia. I think that as a society we can be proud to have been capdavants, pioneers at the time of facing the right and facing discrimination and facing the objective of equal treatment. That's why yesterday he presented this Law of equal treatment and non-discrimination, which, beyond the rhetoric that is usual and that is legitimate and lawful in the House of Commons, was unanimous, he did not have a clue to the totality and all – I am sure that everyone – are aware that we need to develop it already, because it is a step closer to ensuring rights in all areas, also in the LGTBI area. And I said yesterday: the equal treatment and non-discrimination law is an umbrella law and what it allowed is to complement the 2014 law to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersexual. They have to complement each other. And here, even the whole law of 2014 has a transitory disposition that speaks of how regulation..., which must take advantage of regulation of the regulation. And here's one thing that's key – that's key –, that's a lot..., because you were giving me the example of pushing a _second foot... It's an example that the knower, because it's the example..., because I found myself with an entity, and it's the example that the observer gave me. And I said to them, that I am very honest in all meetings; say, "They must complement each other; we must not suffer. Now, that there's a person with a bat on the second floor... we're not talking about law enforcement, we're talking about criminal law. And I don't think we need to be conscious. And here's one of the elements. That is why the deployment is very important and we are very clear that we need to deploy all sanctioning rules. But the sanctioning rules that must allow us are to deploy the administrative part. There's a part, which is criminal law, which is criminal law. There's a part, which is work, where we have the job inspection. And he's still acting and he's still acting. And I think that's why we need to be conscious. And that's why we have to say it. And when it's criminal, because apart from that, we can't turn it into an administration. Physical assault is criminal. A hate crime, like the buses of Hazte Oir..., are criminal – they are criminal. What did the 2014 law allow us to do? Being the only territory in the State where, by administrative means, it was stopped, immobilized and sanctioned the homophobic bus of Hazte Oir. And we were. And that's what allowed us the law of 2014. And you're perfect. Now, when there's a physical assault, it's hate crime, because, apart from it, it's a collection, and here's where you've heard hate crimes, in those collections that are in a situation of inequality, of discrimination. And I think it's very clear. And here we have to reflect. And I say this without any kind of... we need to reflect and we need to reflect on everyone in this room, when there are political parties, like Vox, that want to promote an organic law of protection to the natural family. It's that, of course, you're going back; everything we're saying goes away suddenly. And this is where we reflect, all of us, on what is the role of the agreements that must be held with a force that wants to do this. And it's got to be said out loud. Because, if not, we sweeten it; because, if not, we become smoke curtains before which truly are discriminatory realities that generate more inequality. More inequality, more discrimination; more discrimination, more inequality. You have told me about a number of concrete aspects. And I did want to give him an answer. And he told me that he didn't have all the time to come up with other things that he wants to lay down. In the first place, around the coordination with Education, what exists is an interdepartmental space that its name is the following – and I say so, why not... –: Interdepartmental platform for non-discrimination of LGBTBI people, which works, which is allowing us to advance a lot. And what I'm also saying to him: the Department of Education has pushed the protocol forward, as it was responsible. And in this same line, the Department of Education offers the development of specific and permanent training and training programs for education professionals in the field of school co-existence and in the contents that work in this protocol; that is, the visualization that the protocol is not useful if there is no training, the Department of Education is very clear. In the same way that you asked me about training for Professionals of the Administration I have to tell you that we have trained more than 2,637 Professionals, in sixty-nine training sessions, in LGTBI policies, to fight against homophobia, and in the right of intervention of the functioning of the Generality of Catalonia. And, in the deployment of the SAIs – which is one of the bets that we're doing as a department, with roughly a little SAIS on the whole territory, why? , because we have to ensure that the rights are territorial, that there has been capacity of capillary at the time to work around the rights of the LGTBI collection –, one of the key aspects is that each SAI is working with Mosos d'Esquadra because there is a person from Mosso d'Esquadra to the territory of reference in the SAI. And that I think is a good thing. And that's it. We can discuss: the deployment is faster, shorter... I think that a deployment we're already in is a good deployment. And we want to finish it so you can have it all over the territory, but we've got a lot built in. It's a key element that there's a squad moss cos referent in every SAI. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] to defend each person's rights. I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.5.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.6.0	... I'll have time to reply, we'll just answer the reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.7.0	All right. Thank you, Counselor. It's the return now, again, for the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.8.0	Counselor, before I comment..., to address the health issue I have told you before, I would like to comment on it: you have not commented on any of the statistical guarantee, which is one of the..., which I asked you, and it is very necessary to be able to design policies to have data. And then on the agreement with the Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary, which we are also late; the report on the impact of the law. In relation to the sanctioning regime. It's just that we don't have a sanctioning regime. I mean, we're discussing whether you have to go through the Equal Treatment Act, the LGTBI Act, but we don't currently have a sanctioning regime, it doesn't exist, we're late. And there is a draft, because a draft was worked out, but it is that in the end that decree has not been approved. With regard to the Mossos, there has to be a mosso in every police station, that can..., that has clear the itinerary to follow. The specialized attention phone, also twenty-four_hours. The topic of job placement for trans people. And then, well, the issue of health. A few months ago we asked the Government about waiting lists for surgical interventions of sexual reassignment. The waiting list is huge, compared to the only fifteen interventions per year. If no one else entered the waiting list, it would take eight years to clear it. And it is not only necessary to put more resources in relation to the reallocations but also in the accompaniment before and after the transit. And also those transgender people who do not opt for reassignment need accompaniment, including people from their environment if necessary. And of course ending, and this is very important, with the rivalry that exists between the centers of the Institut Català de Salut, and the CatSalut that is not completing the implementation of the new model of care for transgender people from more respectful parameters. The two registers must be unified and there must be a single waiting list for persons requesting intervention. And who has to ensure it is the policy coordinating body LGTBI, which is not doing because it does not exist as it was designed in law. And I'm glad you brought up the Vox theme because do you know how to fight these speeches? Working. Do you know what Citizens have done in Andalusia? Claim the Equality Council to shield the policies. And for the first time, after forty years of democracy, the Council of Equality, governed by Citizens, has announced the creation of the Andalusian Council LGTBI and a general management LGTBI, something that the entities have been demanding for a long time. This is how we fight for the rights of the collective, with facts and not words. Citizens have always been involved in awareness-raising, have always been at the side of the victims, for example, in the recent attack on the LGTBI centre in Barcelona. We have demonstrated with our work in the institutions, in collaboration with the entities, our commitment to freedom and equality of persons. We are committed to this law and also to the introduction of new restorative justice measures, such as the introduction of community work. It is an issue that we would like to see addressed and discussed at that working table that the entities are demanding. The question we are asking ourselves is whether there is political will in the Government to deploy all these things that I have detailed to you, because obviously economic resources are needed, but there is one part that is missing to deploy that is not linked to financing. The Observatory against Homophobia itself, in its appearance last November, denounced the lack of political will. On the website of the LGTBI area of his department, in the section on government action, they have not published anything this year, and last year they only published one action of his government. We demand that the Government of the Generalitat make a real commitment to LGBTBI rights, that the law be taken seriously, that it be proud of it and urged, that it implement it, that it force its implementation, and that it be aware that in order for LGBTBI people to realize their rights, the Government must be the first to enforce them, that it not say everything it is going to do, but that it does so. There is also another issue that is not being addressed, namely, legal aid. Article 29 obliges the public administrations of Catalonia to guarantee to persons of the LGTBI collective who suffer or are at risk of suffering any kind of violence or discrimination the right to receive immediate, comprehensive, real and effective protection. It is not being done, no legal assistance is being offered. I think we can all agree that we have a law to be proud of, but if it doesn't unfold properly, it's like we don't have it. This law must be believed in and exploited to its full potential. And for that we need you to stop saying that you do things that you don't do and that you don't say what you're going to do. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's the councilman's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.10.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselors, MPs, MPs... I am very pleased with their involvement in the LGBTBI fight, their involvement in the fight against discrimination. And I think the first show of its implication is that Ciutadans didn't propose Arcadi Sword as Igualta's advisor to Andalusia, because you could propose it, because it's an example of a person who day-to-day fails to complete any right. And in the end, we also have to remember that. [[Widow's remorse.]] Just as I'm delighted that they've evolved...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.11.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.12.0	...that has evolved and of the expressions around that it was to force and generate tensions to say marriage to the union between two men, that gave its president in 2006..., now there are firm defenders. I think they're good signs. Now, I'll remind them again, I'd worry that Make You Hear, with everything they represent, I question them as one of the guarantors to fight against feminism – I ask them. I'd be worried about you. And this reflection I've told you and I'll follow you there, on good terms, with very quiet words, I'll follow you there. I'd be worried if you'd make you hear me question 'li'. And you question them as allies, and that's it. From here, around various questions that have asked me about the actions of the Department of Health in the matter of LGTBI rights and trans people, the model of attention to the salvation of trans people that drives the Department of Health, which has, and in which it is absolutely pioneering, goes from aspects– sometimes small things are very important– as close as the name felt on the health cards, up to aspects as powerful as working in the program of surgical reassignment of sex with the participation of three hospitals that are absolutely pioneers in this matter, such as Hospital Germans Trias and Pujol, of Badalona; Hospital Clínic, of Barcelona, and Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge..., for us is a pride. And work it hand-in-hand with trans people. And this has also been done: the follow-up committee, the participation of trans people, as well as professionals, scientific societies, professional colleges, health department technicians... And we're very clear. And we are absolutely pioneers in this area, and we say it with great pride, feeling aware that we continue to hold back, it is clear – it is clear – but it is a good example and I think it should be placed. And I think we need to be able to explain it, because it's the key to the interdepartmental committee and the work we're doing together. I have explained Education, if I want to explain more elements, elements that we have been situating. I have explained to him the exercise we have made, which is a very clear bet, around the capillary and the relationship of policies to equal treatment, in struggle against the LGTBofbia that we have made with the deployment of the SAI. And I think we're clear, because, in the end, this kind of politics or they're deployed to the whole territory, or they're a capillary fan to the whole territory, or they don't have an answer. I've explained how we coordinate with the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And I also met with the observer and we didn't talk. And we share the concern, because that's part of what we talked about to the principle – which you liked that you talked about –, which is how we generated that you agreed that you were very close to society, someone wants to divide them; and that's very linked to the emergence of forces like Vox and this impunity around certain aspects, which we have very linked to society. And we're worried, and we've discussed it, and we're worried about all the incidents. We have an incidence control from all the SARs we have in the territory. And we are working together with the observer and together in a key aspect, which is an example of the deployment of the 2014 law, which is the National Council LGTBI, which is also deployment and we did it late. They asked me, I already had it in the government program and we did it late and the decree was passed. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] That's a good example. And we have a lot of reps, but I think that too...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.13.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.14.0	... here– yes, President, now I'm done– what's important is that from any political force we don't let those who have in doubt key elements of agreement...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.15.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.16.0	... – and there are many aspects in which we have key elements in agreement –, have a political role. And here they ask them to stay more still...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.17.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.18.0	...with political forces with Vox. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.19.0	The next question... we touched the bell by mistake, no matter what. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] [[Question to the Government on electronic voting in trade union elections to the Administration of the Generality]] [[300-00104/12]] The next question to the Government is about the electronic vote in trade union elections to the Administration of the Generality. The question is made, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, by Mrs Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.20.0	Good morning. I see that the questions of votes..., the question of the vote, to the deputies of Citizens, do not ask them very much. Good morning, everyone. President Torrent, Counsellor Puigneró, Counsellor Borràs, MPs, MPs, the secretary – the Annabel Marcos –, the staff..., the companies of Administration Staff and Servants of the University of Girona, of the Information Service, of Secretary General, of Registry and Archiu, of Attention to Students, therefore, many thanks also to accompany me here, to Parliament, your home. From Junts to Catalunya today we are formulating this inquiry to the councilman Puigneró pull out of his impulse policy and promote electronic voting; a policy of which we are absolutely in favour. Recently, the first electronic voting pilot experience at the General Administration's trade union elections had been held, and he wanted to give them a series of considerations. The first: Members and Members, do you know what the most advanced institution in electronic voting is? Catalan universities. Electronic voting is a reality that exists in Catalan universities. The first vote took place on October 15, 2010, and since then, more than 588 electronic electoral processes have been accumulated. Let me explain this experience, because it marks the way for us to implement the electronic vote to the administrations, but also to all the institutions of the country. After the election to the Rectorate of Pompeu Fabra University and the University of Girona 2017, he voted with an electronic vote. The electronic vote allowed, at the University of Girona, that votes without more than thirteen_ thousand people its rector or rector through the mobile, tablet or laptop. Do you know what the immediate effect was? A spectacular increase in participation in a 40_per_cent respect the 2013 elections. The electronic vote allows and made easier for teachers, students or any PAS member who was outside Girona or the university to vote through a tablet, mobile phone..., and what was the result? So a record of student participation, not of the history of Catalan universities, but of the history of Spanish universities. And that wasn't an audacity from Girona University, and much less of the role of this humble Member, but thanks to a person who today deserves special recognition. And I'd like to see Dani Cantalosella Font, who left us last August. [[The Orator is Emotional]] , which was part of the PAS of the UdG, responsible for electronic voting and electronic administration. In Dani he carried more than 216 electoral processes, together with the companies that are here today. Many times, when we talk about the electronic vote, we see that a lot of people talk about it, but there are few practical experts. In Dani, together with the CSUC and the Open Administration of Catalonia, he had advanced the university because he did not do it by transforming and advancing to a critical, participatory and socially compromised university. His vocation as a public service, his responsibility, his attention to students and never having a no for anyone made him a referent. So, today, for you. [[Greetings.]] But in which other countries is there the electronic vote? So, fix yourself. The electronic vote in which it consists is to issue an electronic vote from any computer, tablet or mobile, connected to an internet network with a digital urn. And electronic voting is already a paradigm in many countries, for example, in the Republic of Estonia, and there are other countries, so, with intensity of the use of electronic voting, for example, Brazil, is where the use of electronic voting has a higher intensity, and in other countries such as Regne Unit, Italia, Holland or Germany, it has also been served. But what positive aspects do you have the electronic vote and respect what we ask of your understanding? A faster and error-free scrutiny, greater accessibility for people with functional diversity, increased participation and facilitation of electronic voting for those absent from the territory, prevention of electoral fraud, reduction of costs, sustainability... And all this, the momentum of the electronic vote, is part of the government program of President Torra and the political action of the council. And in concrete terms I wanted to ask him, in relation to this impulse of this political action, for the incorporation of the electronic vote in the decree of the electoral regime of the Chambers of Commerce in Catalonia and also because, recently, this week, he announced the decree that will develop the electronic vote. We defend a Catalan republic where progress, transformation, participation, civic empowerment and democratic quality are essential pillars. On the other hand, in change, left-wing names, it does them by electronic voting. So the government, President Sánchez, last generation month of 2019, tried to challenge the decree of Catalan chambers and even wanted to pass a ministerial order to prevent Catalan chambers from using the electronic vote; I suppose to control..., or there should be some practical powers, that there were these pressures. Therefore, we look to the future, with all the difficulties but with the will to transform, to modify, and not to protect the usual. The electronic vote does not have to be democratic. Electronic voting is an opportunity for all those who believe in democracy and therefore want maximum participation. We have already seen in the elections of 27 September the position of Constellera Borràs, with the Law Project that guarantees the electronic vote of Catalans residing abroad. He sought to guarantee the participation of all Catalans who found him foreign. And let's remember that this bill was re-approved by the Catalan Parliament last October. Now more than ever we have Catalans and a government in exile, without any court order and who, like the rest, must be able to exercise their civil and political rights also in this Parliament. Since the 1st of October someone still has doubts about the need to have the law prevail in the exercise of active suffrage in front of repression and the peril of democracy? Those who want a Catalan republic where participation, democracy, equal opportunities, progress and transformation as basic pillars cannot turn us from stage to stage. Electronic voting is advanced, electronic voting is future. And the electronic vote connects with the Republican values we defend. Technology not as a means, but as an instrument; an instrument for participation and democratic quality. The chambers of commerce, the pilot plan for trade union elections... and we believe, counselor, that we can continue to advance in this way without and without pressure. That is why we ask you what are the next steps in the implementation of the electronic vote, as well as the project you announced, because many times they laugh, but we often defend, the republic also has to be digital and, therefore, the vote also has to be digital. Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.22.0	President, deputies, deputies, very good morning to all and everyone. Deputy Geis, thank you for your intervention. Look, the World Economic Forum, in a recent report, says that humanity faces three great challenges in its own years: one is the migrant front, the other is the climate change and the other is the digital revolution that we are living and, therefore, as we face it. In this sense, the Government of Catalonia, with the creation of the new Digital Policy Council, has very clearly as it faces this digital challenge. And, therefore, we approved five major areas of action in the government plan: the first of them relating to universal access, access to digital infrastructures by all citizens, viscous where viscous; the second is to move towards a more digital citizenry, empowered, formed, with digital rights and rights, is precisely in this area where the electronic voting project is concerned; but also to a more secure country, a country, therefore, where cybersecurity is guaranteed by people, businesses and institutions in which it refers to access to infrastructures; a digital administration, and digital innovation as the engine of the new economy. It is precisely in the field of digital empowerment of people that we believe we are developing, in this case, electronic voting policies. And why? So, because the internet is transforming everything. It's already transformed society, or it's transforming it, it's transforming industry, it's transforming services, and we think the very thing that will transform is the governance of democracy. That, in the words..., which is what I mean, means that if we have ruled for the city until now, from now on we also have to do it, we have to rule with the citizens. And electronic voting and digital training tools, digital empowerment tools become essential to accomplish this goal. Until now the internet served us to inform us, to consume, to buy, to move us, we also have to start thinking about using the internet to vote, which is one of the essences of our democracy. The Administration has already incorporated ICT into many processes; they are incorporated into the information, communication and administrative processes, and they are also incorporated into the decision-making process... In fact, the Government has an approved law, the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, Law 13/2008 – therefore, some years ago – which says precisely this, says: "The Government and the support and assistance bodies to the Government can use, for the compliment of other functions, communications networks or any other means of telematics, whenever mechanisms have been established to guarantee the identity of the persons issuing and receiving the communications, to guarantee the authenticity of the messages, information and expressions transmitted both verbally and in writing. Therefore, the electronic vote is already becoming a reality in many areas. Deputy Geis has made a point of how the universities bring us some years of advance and how they should be the example to be followed by the Administration and society in general. But it is that in countries like Estonia, fifteen days ago, 47_percent of the population voted using this mechanism, or the attempt we tried to make from this Parliament in 2016, trying to provide this instrument with Catalans who see it alienating, because they can get their vote with full guarantees, was not finally possible, but we are already working on this objective so that in this legislature it can be implemented. Look, this department is working to boost the culture of electronic voting at all times. Because it's not a problem of technological maturity, it's not a problem of technology, it's a problem, in any case, of electronic voting culture and trust in electronic voting. And, therefore, to be able to work on this, to be able to work on this together with society, to start making passes, passes in all spheres, in many small areas that may seem, to generate this trust in the different actors and society in general. If we always say that cycling is what you learn by pedaling, so you will learn to vote electronically. And, therefore, it is possible that at any rate where we can start electronic voting projects we can do this and that there are no stops, that there are no concrete areas where someone can or can put their hands, with other objectives that I believe are not, in any case, legitimate for the society that we want to build of the 21st century. Look, electronic voting favors participation, as has been well said; it also favors the possibility that people with reduced mobility or also with a certain level of disability can access the electronic voting more easily. It's more cheap: the costs..., we made a calculation, in the case of elections to the Administration of the Generality, that could suppose a stable of 1,5_million euros to the Administration ; therefore, we are also talking about important students. So what do you do to the hours that people who are due to be in the months and who, therefore, are workers who, on the day the election is held, do not work at their place of work, calculated in more than twenty thousand hours; so, we're also talking, huh? , cost estimates in this sense. The pilot test we launched a_me ago was a pioneer in the Administration. It was a test in a table with 250 voters. I have to say that it was a question of satisfaction on the part of the people who went to vote, and it was absolutely favorable: 94,6_per_cent said that it had been easy or very easy, therefore, to exercise their vote; 91,3_per_cent recommended it in future trade union elections of the Administration of the Generality. In short, we are pushing it to Administration; now we are also working in the Chambers, so we are also working to ensure that the electronic vote is carried out in elections to Chambers. We're running a decree, which we'll approve soon, on the part of the government to institute, huh? the electronic vote in the Generality's trade union elections in the case of the Administration. In short, enabling electronic voting is also a guarantee, as the honourable Member said very well, for political rights, and especially for our country. I say this because this country has experience, from Enric Prat de la Riba to President Torra, of..., many of its presidents have experienced repression on the part of the State and have been forced to live in exile and, therefore, to not be able to exercise their political rights, as MEPs today from this chamber. And so... We also saw in the failed investiture, the 30th generation of 2018, where President Puigdemont could not use telematic means, therefore, to exercise what would have been, therefore, an investiture of the 21st century. Therefore, the Government will do the job, but I, Member of Parliament, President of Parliament, also place all Members of Parliament to work to make this Parliament a parliament of the 21st century, where telematics media are at the top of all their Members, and therefore we also guarantee democracy of the 21st century, in which it is to be the use of the Internet and in which it is to be the use of these media. Thank you very much, and very good morning. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. It's the congresswoman's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.24.0	Well, counselor, thank you also for your exposure. It will be our side in defending this democracy of the 21st century. You refer to the stoppers; the stoppers we find in many places, the stoppers are those who stop the progress, who have to change, who give in to pressure, and, therefore, we must try among all to avoid having stoppers, so that we can also guarantee these civil rights. You also refer to cybersecurity; you reminded me, didn't you? Like the Law of Cybersecurity, which was approved for a unanimous extension, not only for the independent parties, but also for others in this Parliament, it was challenged and suspended by the Constitutional Court, which now raised the suspension, except for Article 2, which precisely established the competences in the field of cybersecurity in Catalonia and gave autonomy, while we see the Spanish Government concerned about cybersecurity... So, we have to work, it's one of the challenges, right? When you also referred to this governance, you spoke of two concepts of trust, didn't you? : we have to work on trust in the implementation of electronic voting. And I think that this confidence in electronic voting must also be implemented from the Parliament of Catalonia, right? We have to give this message to society, because if we are not able to implement this transformation, then it is a message that is not up to society. I had no intention of intervening now, but as you have asked me, so we actually have a law of the Presidency of the Generality which in its article 35 establishes electronic means, as you made reference to it. We are now amending the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia. And I also understand, as you said, therefore, that the situation of repression... soon will be a year from the investiture, right? , from the failed investiture of Councillor Turull, and we saw, therefore, how these deputies put them in jail another time, and, therefore, we have deputies and deputies in exile and in prison, that we have to guarantee their civil and political rights, because it is the most important, and above all because they have after a lot of ballot boxes, these non-digital ones still, but full of votes. So we have to get old – and in this sense I demand it, don't we? , and the inquiry – so as to incorporate in the Rules of Parliament and to incorporate in this chamber also the electronic vote, above all to guarantee civil and political rights, because we cannot generate confidence in the rest of society if we do not practice it here. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's the turn... [[The Advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration gives up using the word.]] All right. [[Report of the Syndic of Greuges to the Parliament corresponding to 2018]] [[360-00013/12]] So we're still on the order of the day. Now play the quarter point, which is the presentation of the Report of the Syndic of Greuges to the Parliament corresponding to the exercise, in the year 2018. Before starting this point, please greet, on behalf of the chamber, the heavyweight syndic and all his team who are here today and invite the syndic who can make the presentation of this 2018 annual report.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.26.0	President, deputies, deputies, councillor..., and I would also like to greet the local syndics and university students present at this session. As you know, according to the law, it is necessary to present on behalf of the Sindical Institute of Greuges, every year, an annual report that takes back all the activities that have been worked at the institution and, obviously, with specific mandates on the topic of gender, on the territorial presence, on the compliment of resolutions, but without wishing to include all the themes that we have worked on during 2018 and, therefore, on a criteria of the selection institution that we consider most important during 2018. They know that in one year too, and by legal obligation, by mandate of this Parliament, we also present the Report on the Rights of Infants in Catalonia, in accordance with the International Convention on the Rights of Infants; we present the Report of the Catalan Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and Abuse, and the Report on the Evaluation of the Compliment of the Law on Access to Information and Transparency, all three with annual character and by mandate of this Parliament. We add to it the competence that you give us about the law of LGTBI rights, which now begin again to modularize, and that of gender equality. The 2018 data confirm that there is a consolidation of the degree of knowledge of the institution and its use by people of all condition, origin, language, age, in Catalonia. If all the data they have in the second chapter are added together, they will approach the fifty-thousand people, and they can break it down according to the number of new complaints, the number of complaints processed, the issues dealt with, where there is more motivation or concern about complaints presented to the syndic, underlining how ever, the latest..., that social policies are the most grouping of complaints presented to the syndic and pushing back the index of these. Still with statisticians, they have the territorial distribution of the origin of the complaints and something that we consider very much: the established presence of the institution of the territory. It is a hundred and forty times that in various barrels and villages of Catalonia there has been, during a good time, the presence of the workers and workers of the syndic, eager to consult and collect complaints of all order. This means that in this sense, at these times, more than 50 per cent of the complaints in this report are attributed to the local administration. Of the processes, there are eight thousand, but in general there is an increase of the local presence in the syndic's work. As well as the highlighted note of the report and underlined in the forecasts of the same Parliament, again the question of genera leans in a form quite parallel to the global volume of complaints, are the social policies that most originate complaints presented by women to the Synod of Greuges. We have a total degree of acceptance of 72_per_cent of resolutions, partial of 25_per_cent; therefore, there are only 2,4_per_cent of resolutions that are rejected by administrations or companies, bearing in mind that the syndic does not make binding resolutions, that their resolutions are not binding. Therefore, we are talking about a degree of acceptance and compliment purely and simply for the rigorous work, the argument of the solutions and their proposal, which has a double scope: of pedagogy of the rights and deures as we reject those in which we consider that there is no reason for the complaint, but also of pedagogy and better of the services administered in the measure that the administrations make their recommendations to the syndicate. We have told you in previous years that there is the mechanism for analyzing the compliment of the resolutions presented a few months after they were presented, and I would give us very similar figures as I have just quoted as regards acceptance. Therefore, we are limiting, reducing much that before the boomerang, which something accepted at the head of a time would return to the syndic because it had not been realized. It is worth noting that during the year 2018 there was a regular number of reports, which are not annual, but on monographic issues, such as: « The right to housing: urgent questions, the « Basis for an audit of the Castor project, the Report on the Universalization of Health Care, « The violation of fundamental rights and public freedoms and the criminal reaction to October 1 and the application of Article 155, « The increase of conflicts in environmental and urban matters in Catalonia, « The situation of migrant children without family references to Catalonia i « The municipal union as an independent ombudsman: the situation in Catalonia. All these reports would be useful to add them to our considerations, in the four that we present annually to Parliament. And I take this opportunity to say another time that it would be good that one day the Parliament is raised that some of those other three annual reports that are seen in committee have a later instance in the plenary of the Parliament. It's worth bearing in mind that all this forms the bulk of the issues that we bring to your consideration throughout the year. They know that we publish the resolutions and reports very quickly to the syndic's website; even that of the Torture Prevention Mechanism no longer waits for the advisor to approve all the reports at the end of the year, but we inform the affected authorities immediately because they can correct what we think is wrong. But you, as parliamentarians and as parliamentarians, have all this throughout the year to serve it, and I take this opportunity to congratulate all the parliamentary groups for the use they are making of all the material that the syndic humbly puts at his disposal. This allows us to do something that much needs to be done in this country, which is called politics. As Eiximenis would say to Lo Crestià, in the chapter of "The Regiment of the Public Thing, you are the first protagonists of the Regiment of the Public Thing, of the Re public, but you are the protagonists, you are the ones who are certainly lacking in public policies. And that's up to us, say it, too, when we think there are no public policies. But it is up to this institution, before any other institution, to debate and discuss the lines of public policies. So, forgive me if I tell you about Eximenis's hand: they deserve and we all deserve to do politics, as the wise man taught us more than five hundred years ago in our home. They see that in the report there are very punctuating, distressing policies, such as all that I have said before social policies, people who have found themselves at risk of social exclusion and who enter into a circle of vices, going through various stages, all of them public policies, which can involve denunciation, lack of social transfer or guaranteed income, the size of sub-administration, with what we want to tackle with policies before the poor energy. So, a whole set of materials that seem scattered to the syndic come concentrated in precise family units: the most in need of public policies in our country. They are frequent denials or non-resolutions of guaranteed income, which have resulted in poor energy or in denunciations, and they are still frequent or there are more dramatic cases when there are children in between, in units that, in the world, need children. And, therefore, a much firmer bet would be hotter – then I will refer to it – with phonental challenges, to try to pay off this situation. That is to say that in this sense the housing of social emergence is something of extreme need. I said two years ago that we were trying to avoid waiting lists in the habitation, and now we're talking about lists, and very powerful assemblies, even the most powerful, going beyond the year of waiting. And obviously there are many alternative solutions in the meantime, but we find that today the number of requests for public housing and protection at a much higher rate than the same Administration can foresee with the one above to provide. We also call them attention, on the 18th, to the complaints that we have with guaranteed income, already by refusal, by lack of response, above all by lack of information and by significant delays in the regulatory deployment of what should be used to make this an authentic instrument of equity and adventure in social issues. I would like to clarify much more the skills and know how to address and inform citizens better. The prediction that they had passed the year on the social good was dissatisfied. We had a law in Catalonia that was very much advanced in respect; in part she was brought to the Constitutional; she got out the social goods at the level of the state, and we often find a genuine gallimaties that makes it very difficult to solve easily a problem as important as this. Let us leave behind the history of names and who can be attributed to each policy; indeed, a complexity that did not exist before is attached to the problem. It is worth saying in this apartment that we have detected, on the 18th, complaints before abusive practices of managing the collection of basic sub-administration debt, of selling debt packages to abusive enterprises, which, through all-in-one practices, are going to seek their benefit from the collection of something that pertains to an elementary basic right on which you have monoGRAPHIC reports of the syndicate that were presented much following the structure that the United Nations gives to these issues. It is worth taking into account matters that already go beyond the scope of social rights, directly, although they are social, such as the various distances from education – after that I will mention, from the signature of the Covenant against Segregation, many days ago–, or the issue of public health services as regards the lists of expectations and the level of remuneration. But there is one issue that many or some may not be social, and for the syndic it is completely social: let us relive speculative attacks and insolences on our territories, and the territory is a good thing to be preserved for generations. And it is not valid for the Administration to fall into the trap of saying: "As there are plans, nor as yet of the seventy, they must respect each other and go forward. Instead it's written, that's it. There are many times and many instruments to break down these plans and to avoid their application if this can lead to irreversible aggression to the territory. And, as we say in the monogram report and we say in the annual report, why don't we change our thinking? We do not follow especially and mainly vigilant that everything they present to us complies with the norms that we have. First, that what they want us to present in favour of general interest is justifiable, and that, therefore, is a necessity not for the investor, it is a necessity that can add more wealth to society in general, and then we will see from which passes we can pull forward. It is what makes the most advanced countries, with which the syndic invites them to compare. And this is happening on the coast, going back to the coast, in an ignominious way, but it's also going to the high mountain, and it's going to several indirectities of Catalonia where there can be-there's expectation that it's so easy, the inversion in stone, that in the middle or the long it has to give returns that it has no other economic effort of development that it can be applied in other areas of the economy. Much connected to this, we would insist on the deficiencies that we are running for various reasons and various administrations, as is also contemplated in the report of the 18th, in mobility, in issues that affect the rolling stock and in issues that affect the contamination, and I am feeling telegraphic, despite the fact that, as I said to the Commission, the announcement of the imminent submission of a monographic report on the contamination. Still at this time of the 18th and, I repeat, making a selection of the reports and subjects that we have worked on, the call for attention to the Report on Freedoms and Rights, that of 2018, the report that speaks of the illegalities that have been committed in this Parliament, that speaks of the criminal disproportion applied to social and political leaders in Catalonia and that speaks of the distortion of Article 155 when it was applied. Three days ago I was in Strasbourg, working with the institutions of the Council of Europe, the guarantor of the most solid text on the planet in human rights, the Convention of Human Rights of Europe, and with the various authorities, from the European Commission of Rights to the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe, Mrs Maury, noting that the European definitions applicable to our house are that of the existence of political prisoners and that of the existence of a system of transports of these prisoners who do not agree with what has just been approved a long time ago the same Parliamentary Assembly and in the way of motions that are talking about how to stop the enjoinment of parliamentarians for political expression. They've got it all in their chest, if they want, on the same web and documentation that the Greuges Synod is working on. In addition to these activities, I call attention to the presence in relations with other syndics, starting with the locals. You know that the syndic has agreed with many communities in Catalonia to directly establish a relationship of supervision of rights at the local level and has agreed agreements with the populations where there are local syndics to work together. I want to advance them that, as a result of this work, soon we will sign with Cornell a new agreement that will be a great step forward for the better of these relations between local syndics and syndics of Catalonia. The same would say in the work we do constantly with university syndics, given that all our universities have syndics. And what we do with other syndics of autonomous communities and with the same Ombudsman of Spain. They keep in the report our relations at the scale of the network of children's rights defenders at European level, of the network that we were to create with British, French and Belgian energy defenders, of the network of commissions for linguistic issues, and especially of the World Institute of the Ombudsman, in which I have for a second time, by universal secret ballot, the honour of being elected president of all of Europe. And here our relations with the various bodies that play right, such as the Commission of Europe in Rights, such as the European Agency for Fundamental Rights, the Ombudsman of the European People's Party or the one I have just mentioned, the Council of Europe. As an activity that we see with a lot of interest, the announcement – Members of the committee know this – that we already have a scrap of human rights in Catalonia. Following the United Nations protocol, we are going to create the structure – and we are going to be informed – ; we are going to be charged with the task of a government of Catalonia to do this in accordance with the protocol; from the council to participate the most important organizations of the country in defense of human rights, it has been elaborated this cataleg, and from the month of generation onwards there are gaps, concrete territorial, sectoral and social areas of discussion on these twenty-seven and, possibly already, rights that could, at the end of this debate, mean a contribution to the Parliament of Catalonia – and, we hope, then, to the same Government – to develop the public policies that develop in this area of Catalonia. According to 2018, we have a list of future challenges of enormous importance. It could be longer, I'm sure – I'm going back to the right-hand side I just mentioned – but in this today's speech I'd just like to point out a few things. Catalonia has a great challenge to the day in which it is the obsolescence of investments in salvation. Salvation, out of the world, goes to an accelerated pace of equipment and of our instruments, which demands a much higher reversal than we are making. This may not be known today, but in five years, if we haven't started closing this delay, it will be loudly noticed. A huge repte that has public salvation to Catalonia. We have, in general terms, a great public system of salvation, but that, in the band of the topic of the waiting lists, of the level of remuneration that I have quoted before, this is of enormous transcendence. We also find our attention in the face of segregation. I invite parliamentarians who have not done so to adhere to the pact that we have drawn up against school segregation, which is the great issue of schools in Catalonia, not to mention the one and most important, of many. There are already drawings and drawings of measures there, which obviously will not apply tomorrow but with timetable and perspective they can be dismantled and applied and they can mean starting to reverse that high percentage of segregation to our schools. The proof is held in all the colors that support those gatherings, starting with Codina, Vic, who has been many years since they started practicing policies to combat segregation. It is possible to go before this segregation and it is possible to go towards a horizon – if you want it, utopian, but it is at the time – of equal opportunity of all the boys and girls of Catalonia for the right to education. The great challenge, which has also reached our home from the hands of young people with a new wave, of being more serious about what the climate change can mean; that, in fact, the shocks may see them very long, like what is happening today in Mozambique in a brutal way, but that is a fact and that I would ask for much more awareness, disposition, investment and public policies on the part – back to Eiximenis – of which we have to govern the public realm. But there's a setback that we've been hard on the President of the Generality asking him for a great national pact, which is xenophobia. I've heard a lot of you say that, so pretty, of the wise Joan Fuster: "We're all a little old, young and Christian. I add to it: and whoever doesn't believe it, makes him look at it. It's a barricade. As Vázquez Montalbán says in that splendid poetry, Prague, we are mixed, and then continues in català as is this mestissatge. We can't give the slightest space to xenophobia. I do not want to refer to any population or situation in concrete, because it is not a matter of demonizing anyone. As you can see if they go through the window to Europe, it is a problem, to various places in Europe, very worrying. I was asked by President Maury, of the Parliamentary Assembly, which meant some partisan political option that today only has representation in Andalusia, alarmed by what it might mean. And I, in order to answer that, answered him the concern he had, as I said, that Catalonia had the least land or base for you to enter xenophobia. You look at the European countries constantly coming from the hands of the new Hate; « in the minds of the new Hate, eh? We didn't use it as an instrument between us. Do you know what they mean by Europe with the Hate? They refer to LGBT youth – young LGBTI people –, Muslims – Muslims –, women – women – and immigrants: the top four targets of hate online – the three goals to top of all that is hate. He proposed it to the President and proposed it in this Parliament that, as soon as possible, a pact of real commitments was drawn up, with concrete measures of frontal combat to any outbreak of xenophobia, whether or not it was encapsulated, despite the fact that it did so, encapsulated; to any outbreak of xenophobia: by culture, by history, by formation to society and by alertness. We're not vaccinated against this. I, therefore, call for pedagogy, but call public policies to respect. I would like to end this intervention with a thank you to all the people who have worked with Parliament, I would like to say again, of all the parliamentary groups, of the various branches of the Government that have been with us in dialogue, with each other, with policy dialogues to solve concrete problems; I could quote the same Councillor d'Interior, when the syndic took full advantage of the aggravating theme of the bombers in Catalonia. We would like to thank all the media that have helped us spread this and that we continue to count on them to extend these matters, and if possible, with an escalation of questions about the imminence of affectation to the right, which can go a long way from what may seem to come more. To all the social and territorial sectors that have collaborated with the syndic in the preparation of the various reports, such as those that today culminate in this Parliament in this question. And I would like to tell you that in this sense I feel very starring in that song, « Animal of hope and memory: « Animal of hope and memory / I did not want to be otherwise human, / I did not want to ignore and resign / To be, a little less, like a beast. / Limits, I know so many and so many limits. / And sharp visc against these limits. Limits. / Soil and accompanied try to be useful/ With love songs, with fight songs. It's the words of Raimon that I make absolutely my own. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.27.0	Thanks, heavyweight syndicate. Now to fix the position the groups have the word, and in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.28.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been in office for twenty-one days. We have already asked you at your appearance before the committee to resign, please. Dismiss now, Mr. Syndic, save us more shame and more disgust in your institution. Do not take any more advantage of the political blockade to which we have subjected this Parliament in these times of political confrontation. Look, let's start with today, with the most rabid today, with the occupation of public space, with the novelty of the controversy of the electoral board with the President of the Generalitat and his magical intervention, his advent from the oracle to put peace on this issue. Look, Mr. Syndic, I accuse you of bleaching Mr. Torra, of helping him, of plotting with him a plan to allow him a half-honored exit with his followers, with those of the yellow bow. You have borrowed, you have resubmitted to the union of heavy goods to the interests of the process and the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Shamefully, he's put himself back in the service of the process. The position that you have had with regard to the controversy of the yellow ties – polemic that you have created, because the law is very clear, and that has been said repeatedly by both the High Court of Justice and the Electoral Board or the Ombudsman of the whole of Spain –, look, your position is shameful. It is that we are in electoral times, right; but not only in electoral times must the neutrality of the institutions be respected, Mr Syndic, not only in electoral times! Where is the reasoning to say ‘ yes now and'not now? , « Now a little, did the neutrality of the institutions a little, or did it very much? A lot can't be done at an election time. And a little bit, Mr. Syndic, a little bit you can? Does it seem to you that neutrality can be violated in public buildings, as if it were the offices of Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, the buildings that are of all and that we pay among all, are buildings of the Generalitat or are buildings of the city council? Can neutrality be violated a little bit, Mr. Syndic? It's a shame. You go against democratic rule of law. You also let the government say, "Well, we'll do what the syndic says. If you had already told him! On Wednesday he had already said to them: "Well, yes, we do this, we do the other..., he had already planned the plan, he has already helped him. It is a shame that your position with all this affects one of the fundamental issues in democracies, which is to be able to vote with an impartial administration. It's just that it's such a book that it's embarrassing that in Catalonia we have to be demanding a clean election, listen, it's embarrassing! And you, the defender of the people, you, who would have to defend us to the Catalans, you defend the government, not the people. [[Greetings.]] Look, with regard to the fallacy of freedom of expression, the walls of the municipalities, the walls of the Generalitat, do not have the right to freedom of expression, do not have that right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Do the walls have rights, Mrs Madaula? Yes, do you have them? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, they have them! Ostras, my mother! - Oh, my God! [[The timer laughs. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.29.0	There's no debate between you, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.30.0	Well, well, well, well... well, well – well, well. [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]] Look, freedom of expression, I'm going to teach you – I'll tell you, I'll explain –, it protects people, those people that you should defend, those people, it protects freedom of expression. It does not protect the facades of public buildings as windows for unscrupulous politicians; that does not protect it from freedom of expression. Freedom of expression... we're talking first about the walls, and now we're talking intramural. You, who recently quoted some medieval authors in the matter of intramurals..., apply a lot in the cloistered convents. What happens intramurally? What happens within the walls of the buildings of the Generalitat and the municipalities? Because we're talking about what adorns the facades, but what's going on inside? What's going on inside, Mr. Syndic? We're not getting in, are we? There is no one who defends officials who are surrounded by political symbolism in their jobs, is it true that they do not defend you or the electoral board, Mr. Syndic of the people or the process? You don't say anything about that? Doesn't that problem exist? Look, I'm going to read it in today's news, a news from the Confidential today: "The war of ties behind the facades. It's unbearable to go to work like this every day. Catalan officials remember that the worst is inside. Look, this should embarrass the syndic, but more of you, huh? You should be ashamed, because you're the boss of all this, huh? Those who impose these ties of their laps and seats on the rest of the civil servants, not the entire population, are you, gentlemen of the Republican Left, of the CUP, of the PDECAT. And you, Mr Syndic, are the one who should defend the people of these gentlemen who abuse their authority, because they abuse with the workers and with the officials. Look: "A number of officials tell this newspaper their daily lives and confess that they are tired of going every day to work between political posters against the application of 155 – which you criticise, syndic – "in defense of the "political prisoners" – in quotes – "or photographs of prisoners and yellow ties everywhere. Those of us who are not independenceists talk to each other in a low voice – in a low voice, they talk to each other; that's the truth – "explains an official who has been working in the department for years. He says: "The electoral board focuses on the external ties, but the problem is inside, says an official in this article who is on the network today. "Some of us have not been able to avoid going down at some point to those concentrations that are being brought down by the officials... You know that, don't you? It is that we comment in 2017, that this did not come out in his report, nor does it come out in 2018. Doesn't it matter to you that you summon public workers, their bosses, at twelve o'clock and see who goes down and see who doesn't? Doesn't this matter to you? Look at what an official says: "Obviously," he says, "no one puts a gun to your head, but you look a little forced. The atmosphere is very complex, and if you don't live it in the first person you don't understand it – what shame, huh? Gentlemen. "If you ask your colleagues to defend the government – and now this is going to sound to you, Mr. Buch, eh? , Mr Bargalló..., it will sound to you –, "if you ask the comrades who defend the Government, they say that there is nothing going on here, that there is freedom of expression, that freedom of expression that you defend with that shame, that you claim to defend with that shame..., look at what these people think ; they say: " There is nothing going on, here there is freedom of expression. I'm telling you, this official says, "I wouldn't dare put on a link with the Spanish flag. None of the complainants – I also tell you, so that you don't ask me – dare to say their name. Why? – Why? Is this freedom in Catalonia? Is this freedom? This is freedom, ladies and gentlemen, some who smile like "well, yes..., eh? Doesn't this happen in Catalonia, Mr. Syndic? Shame, Mr. Syndic! You do not mention this abuse, in the twenty-first century, of the individual rights of people who are working and who are subject to the political imagination imposed on them by their bosses. [[Greetings.]] That is the freedom of expression, Mr. syndic, which you should defend, that of the people, Mr. syndic, not that of Mr. Torra, not that of the walls. That is freedom, for which you are paid, for which you are a commissioner of this Parliament, to defend people against the abuse of public authorities, against these abuses that I am explaining to you. Look, I'm not going to congratulate you on the issues that you include in your report and that, logically, it was because you included. Therefore, I am not going to make you a relation of all the issues that you cite and should cite, and as it is logical in this parliamentary group, that we are the one who presents the most social initiatives, we have collaborated in many things with the union; that you are right that many of the officials and those chosen by you by your finger, many more than those who should, work in that institution and carry out things that, in fact, have to be carried out: complaints, protection of children's rights, in the field of public health, in the field of the environment, which you have also mentioned here... Of course, you are talking about this. But then, Mr. Syndic, you go back to the steps and you dare to say, for example, that in childhood the standard of childhood of the year 2010 has not been developed, which carries four legislatures without being developed by the governments of the Generalitat, and attributes it to the one hundred fifty-five. Oysters, Mr. Syndic... [[Greetings.]] Mr. syndic... – Mr. syndic... What a shame! One hundred and fifty-five, 155 did not fall from heaven, Mr Syndic, but I understand that you believe that it did fall from heaven, I understand that, because you in your 2017 report did not mention at all the blow to democracy that we live in this Parliament with the violation of the rights of all. Of course, as he did not put it in the 2017 report, in 2018 he says: "Uy, a 155! Where did they come from? [[Rialles.]] Of course, for you, the Constitution did not have to be applied in Catalonia for something as serious as the violation of everyone's rights. I already explained to you the last time you were, that you..., was a disgrace, the 2017 report. If you want me to stop for a moment, Mr. Syndic; do not be enraged to hear all these things. [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]] Look, Mr. Syndic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.31.0	Deputy, deputies... calm down.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.32.0	... in 2017– yes, yes, yes– we reproach you that you jumped over the coup d'état saying you don't get involved in parliamentary affairs. If the quarterly report...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.33.0	Deputy, just a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.34.0	Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.35.0	It's about institutional respect for the syndic, it's about respect for all the deputies, and when you use the word, it's about institutional respect, I insist, all the criticism you need, but it's about respect. Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.36.0	Thank you, Mr President; I will try. And, look, let's go on... Well, look, 2018, things you haven't mentioned in your report. 2018 was the year of the advent of Mr Torra. Mr. Torra, who wrote – I read it in Spanish, and so we are understood throughout Spain –: "What a deterioration, you go out on the street and nothing tells you that this is the street of your parents and grandparents. The Castilian advances relentlessly, voraciously, very quickly. Spain has essentially been an exporter of misery, materially and spiritually speaking. No, it's not natural to speak Spanish in Catalonia. Not wanting to speak the language of the country indicates uprooting, the persistent will not to assume the signs of identity from where you live. The tongue and the beasts. Now you look at your country and you see the beasts, scoundrels, vipers, hyenas, beasts in human form again. They're here, between us. It disgusts them with any expression of catalanity, it is a sick phobia. Finally, I will read to you, Mr Syndic, that you have never criticized these words of Torra, you have not mentioned in your articles what that can mean for many Catalans who feel insulted, vexed and assaulted by a president who makes these racist comments, for look, I teach you the tweets of ALDE: « The separatist and racist rhetoric of the new president of the Generalitat ; European Socialists and Democrats: « Sad with the election of Torra. His racist statements are absolutely disgusting; the third tweet from the European People's Party: "The European People's Party condemns the racist comments of the new president. There is no room for hate rhetoric in the European Union. Was it not up to us to talk about this problem in Catalonia, which affects a lot of people who are insulted and harassed by what should also be their president? You have not spoken about the violation of language rights in schools. Do you remember those officials who cannot complain, who have just read it to you? For apply the same to families who also have rulings in favour and the Generalitat does not want to apply to them also the Spanish language vehicle, along with Catalan and English. Statements from people who are not grateful, that you say nothing. Massive data theft to Catalans, with the head of the Catalan Data Protection Agency, processed with Ómnium and ANC, coup associations with fines of tens of thousands of euros. The biggest theft in the history of Catalan data... is still hanging on the network today, huh? , in 2018; you could put it, as it talks about data protection. Anyway, Mr. Syndic, what I'm going to tell you is that you have again disappointed us with this report and that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.37.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.38.0	... – yes, I finish now, Mr President – another problem is the exploitation of public resources, the misappropriation to which we are constantly subjected...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.39.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.40.0	...to the detriment of the social costs that you also mention in the report.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.41.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.42.0	It's here. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.43.0	Mrs. Madaula, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.44.0	Yes, by allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.45.0	In any case, at the end of the debate, as we always do, if it seems to you, Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.46.0	All right, it'll be sketched out, but fine.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.47.0	Therefore, Mrs Moreta, now on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.48.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies, counselors, syndicate and all the team that accompanies you. Today, syndicate, it's the media epithet; so much so that it's a healthy morning, but good. Mrs Artadi made a few days ago – a couple of days ago – statements on this subject, which today is so mediatic and ensured that they would take care of the syndic's recommendations, and add: "We always take care of the syndic's recommendations, always. Well, then I would say to Mrs. Artadi that it would be good for this government also to make good recommendations from the syndic on the issue of child poverty, guaranteed income, health and education detail... I think it's the only thing that matters when the agreement is made, which in this case is today's issue. But, go on, I wouldn't want to extend the subject to me, because there are other Members there, and, therefore, the one he touches today, which is the syndic's annual report. A few days ago, this report was discussed by the committee. Then I was very critical of the focus you were making on the sidelines of this report, which reminded him that it was very obvious and certain that the report had been marked by the political context. He also said that he had been completely lost, and that is so, because if it is true that the Government of the Generality intervened for the application of 155, which is true, it is not less certain that the general context was also marked by the political consequences of which he counted the days 6 and 7 of September, and to obviate it, moreover, seems a little realistic and of the whole partyist. Then last week it was also limited to passing through my intervention and what I gave him, but today I think it will also pass, because it does not interest him absolutely. Because recognizing him is not his way of acting. It has not been neutral – it has not been neutral – in this matter, syndic; it would be good if one day I said so. Why do you think the 6th and 7th of September didn't have any consequences? No later consequence, obviously. Is there only a consequence to 155? Why did 155 apply? I think you should be a little more realistic, just a little bit. I don't think that's the best way to start the syndic's report, the report that you do annually of the syndic of Greuges. But, going into the matter, the report points out that the most significant increase in complaints has been registered in social policies, as you have now said at the beginning of your intervention. And it is said, in this report, that it has exceeded the threshold of 30_per_cent– concretely, we are at 32_per_cent respect the totality of problems raised in this report. It really seems to me a very negative fact, that it is worth having in mind and that it gives a very accurate view of the things that are going on in social policy and that this government should improve. That said, we could go deeper into a lot of the data I contained in this report, but I think that with the time I have, with what we have, I can't go deeper into each of them and touch them concretely. Therefore, I will highlight three areas in particular: health, education and housing, I am aware that I stop talking about many other issues that deserve all the relevant attention, as they could be themes of equality, environment, infrastructure... You yourself just said that you were getting a report on the topic of contamination; it would be good that this report also talked about the contamination of Osona's fonts for nitrates, because of nitrates; let's see what you say. On the subject of health, the report maintained the same trend as in previous years, and most of the complaints focus on the patient's waste treatment and the lack of human resources, the infrastructure to give healthcare assistance, the waiting lists, the functioning of some health services... Let's talk about waiting lists. And why are we talking about waiting lists? Yesterday, at yesterday's plethora, my Companion Assumpta Escarp was talking about the waiting lists, and here she is talking about it too. Why? Because they represent a 26,1_per_cent of the total rebud complaints. I would like to highlight some of the specialties in which the waiting lists are really out of date, especially the trauma and ophthalmology specialties: waiting lists of more than two months, and a little less in general surgery and digestive equipment. But also waiting lists to make a first visit to the allergy specialist, so much so that they worry about the people who are hurting them. I was told by a Member of the Left: "Mrs Moreta, I don't think it's the hardest part, the waiting lists on the subject of allergies. And I can tell you that it's obvious that these people haven't been there all spring without a diagnosis, because there aren't enough specialists to paint these effects. This is a reality, and we need to know how to admit it. I'll figure it out. Because it's not what I say as a congresswoman, it's hundreds of complaints. So, I think the issue is very worrying and there's a solution to it. It's not that it's more or less important; it's obvious that when someone asks for life they can't wait on a waiting list – it's evidence. The key, then, is to find solutions to a few lists of hope they don't get better in the second few specialties, and that's a fact and a reality. These data are all disappointing. We come from five years of retail – and two years of various powerpoints –, retail assumptions that represent a problem of waiting lists, but above all we have a problem of waiting time. We have to say that the comprehensive plan for the best list of health care waiters presented by the Health Department in 2016_has failed. With a diminished presuppositional contribution, without fulfilling the objectives of reducing the 10-per-cent waiting time for surgical interventions and a 50-per-cent list of visits with a specialist in a year. Sindic, I honestly believe that there are no critical people with the management of a government that spends more time publishing tweets than ruling. Moving on to educational topics, we agree that in education we must emphasize that equal opportunities must be the fight of school segregation, recalling that the PSC has also joined the Pact against Segregation which was signed the last dilluns in this Parliament. And university taxes? Let's talk about university fees – or public fees, as some people say. They are the highest of all autonomous communities, and that is why there are no complaints. That's not what we're talking about. I don't know how many thousands of families have kids studying at college. I'll tell you what, she's a real shame. And do you know what response Esquerra gave, to the syndic's commission, to respect this subject? That they were bringing education, and that's up to Business and University. That's to say, a government that doesn't rule and that's above throws dishes through the head as if studying college doesn't follow an educated theme. The details in education, the overload of the faculty, the lack of professionals, have been the core of the last governments of the Government of Catalonia, which seems not to be the interests in absolute the subject. The current government has abandoned exclusive skills such as education from zero to three – the Bressol schools–; it has not guaranteed the necessary resources because the student – especially the student with special educational needs – has received quality attention; it has not taken into account the student displacements that live in non-school populations, in extended population clusters or in rural areas; we have – as I said – higher university taxes of all autonomous communities... These are questions that the report does not address, but that we are very interested in highlighting. And as the last point I would like to introduce the issue of housing. It can be said that there has been an inadequate response from the administrations before the denunciations of those vulnerable people, and it would be time for the government to create an integral plan to address the occupation of habitats. Violations in housing are evident, and there is a lack of a sufficient pool of social housing, and the collapse of the months of residential emergence. And I would like to be very critical with the Sareb, which has shown no willingness to help resolve the difficulties in accessing a suitable habitat. Excessive delay in assigning a habitat, after the table has dictated a favorable value, far from being solved, has increased. We need an urgent shock plan to give a solution to this problem. We seem to forget that housing is a universal access right for all people... to have this decent and affordable housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.49.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We may be the turn of Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.50.0	Well, first of all, I'd like to start with a thank you. In fact, today will surely be the presentation of his last annual report, if this Parliament is able to get out of paralysis and partyism and we are able to agree, in this case, a new syndic or to choose a new syndic, which requires the majority of three_five_parts. Surely, in these moments of partyism, electoralism and confrontation, we would say..., more complicated than ever, but we would try and work because that's what it is. I want – I said – to start with a thank you, because the syndic is an institution of the Catalonian self-government – I want to remind you –, which brings back the Statute of Catalonia, and I think it is worth remembering that in this second term – they are new years of work – they can certainly be made many criticisms – someone has already done it – but I think it is not possible to deny their ability to work, I think it is ingenious. And I think I'll turn it back, in this case, I'll report it; not just for the annual report but also for the reports it makes, not just those that are preceptive but also those that it does, in this case, directly as you do extraordinary reports. And I think it's worth recognizing this ability to work, I'd say, also in favour of those most disadvantaged people – and then I'll talk about it – because I don't think the syndic is, in this case, creative with government action; I think he gives instruments to substantial opposition groups to make opposition to the government, and I think the annual report – when I hear it – is a buffet, in this case, to the same government. I wanted to remember – and I want to remember, in this case, as I said – that the syndic is an institution of Catalonia's self-government. And I think he probably touched it, didn't he? , as they say, "bad times for lyric, right? , because there are groups that have set the target some institutions of the Catalonian self-government: one is the syndic – I speak especially of Ciutadans – ; the other is the Mossos d'Esquadra, who want me to stop being the integral police of Catalonia, and the other is the Catalan public school, and especially the linguistic immersion. It's funny, because Ciutadans criticizes some institutions but others don't criticize them. For example, I have never heard a criticism, in this case, of Ciutadans del Banc d'Espanya, which is an institution of the State that repeatedly says that pensions are to be lowered or that it is also to be reformed, to another new reform of the labour market – I suppose, because they coincide politically, and you agree. Or they never criticize the employer... well, actually put them on their lists, for example, in this case, they just put someone on their lists that you say for the first time will pay taxes to Spain. Therefore, or, in any case, you criticize some institutions but others do not criticize them. And they also talk a lot about freedom of expression; I would say, even so, sometimes freedom of participation. I didn't hear them criticizing Vox. These days Vox has proposed that if they illegalize political parties like, in this case, We can. Where are you? I'll tell you where you are: you're at Columbus Square hugging Mr. Abascal and hugging the Government of Andalusia. Therefore, as they say in the castle – they say –: « Much to see, in this case, « the straw in the eye of others, but little to see the beam in the eye itself. This is what happens to you; it happens to you, in this case, to Ciutadans. I wanted to, in this case, also continue with some reflection. He said Mr. Tarradellas that in politics it is possible to make the ridiculous all the less, and I believe that these days, in this case, the Government of the Generality is making the ridiculous and has made the ridiculous. And I think he does it, plus, giving ammunition to City and, plus, he does it questioning the syndic's independence. And he does it with lies. I know hard because there are only two advisers, but there is neither the President of the Government nor the Councillor of the Presidency and Spokesman of the Government, who lied this Tuesday in press. Since the 15th of March, there has been a report, in this case, of the Synod of Greuges – a motu proprio report – which recommends the withdrawal of the deep ties, in this case, referring to the petition of the Electoral Board, or to the resolution of the Electoral Board, in order to guarantee institutional neutrality. Beyond whether or not he agrees, in this case, with what the Electoral Board determines, which may be another debate, I think the government in a complicated position is wrong. And the Government of the Generalitat has repeatedly become accustomed to conveying responsibilities that are of the Government itself, in this case, to the syndicate, which I want to remind you that it is an independent institution. Because Mrs. Artadi is wrong again – and I think she puts the syndic in a very complicated position – when she says that the President of the Generality and the syndic are working together. No, look, listen: the syndic, which is an independent institution, or else, issues resolutions, some very specific reason and some other because it has preceptive ones; among other things, what it does often is to control the government's action. And in any case the syndic will determine what I consider appropriate, and in this case the Government can also decide whether or not to complete the syndic's resolutions, which are consultative. Because... so, if we're now completing this, that it doesn't seem to me bad that we're completing it, I understand that from then on all the social resolutions that the syndic dictates will also complete them at a bit of the letter, because, if not, I don't understand what this double measuring rod is. And look, I also think..., and I want to translate two reflections – and then I will enter the contents of the syndic's report –: the first is the President of the Generality. I think it was a good thing that, in a context of the threat of self-government and the threat of the Catalan institutions, they stopped using partisanly and even more so to make the ridiculous. That's what I'm saying. I believe that these President of the General Council is degrading the Presidency of the General Council and is degrading the Presidency of my country. And I think that's a good thing you stopped doing. And the second thought I want to do is tell the Republican Left company and tell them, too, solemnly. Look, you have all the right, if you want, to put two of the list to the generals a Twitter troll – it's their right, you're on their right – but you don't have the right to call "a coward, in this case, who is the Mayor of Barcelona." Why do I ask myself now: "Sir Rufian will say that the President of the Generality is a coward? You'll tell me now, when did the resolution of the election board complete? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no, I'm asking. Because it's what you play; play the election card. You play this. And I also gave them this weekend..., and I gave them in this case our list head: the time for testosterone has run out, the time for "pit and colons", for "our own alone" has run out. If we're talking about the election board, we've already seen it. You can play another time in the electoral cycle, we will play to preserve the institutions of Catalonia's self-government. That's what I'm telling you. You can go bring printers to the Congress; we will defend that prisoners must go out in the street and not be in prison. And I'm telling you that. And I want to say that. Because there are words to these elevations that are offensive. I'm telling you that. And we ask you to respect them. They're offensive. Because, look, we don't have a project in this case for the independence of Catalonia, it's true, we want to change Spain and we want a multi-national Spain, but for us this is not incompatible with the defense of rights and freedoms, in this case also of the rights and freedoms of Catalonia and the rights and freedoms of prisoners, who must be out of pre-trial detention, that there is no crime of rebellion and there is no crime of siege. And so I turn them around and say, are the mayors and the mayors who will now remove the deep loops from the joints? Is the president of the generality a coward? Therefore, they ask them to respect and demand them with all the heart that they cease to use electoralism and partyism and are able to defend the institutions, the Catalan institutions. And I went into the report. Look, I think we should think about it, too. To this Parliament we spend a lot of time talking about many things that don't affect people's lives or we don't talk about what affects people's lives. And I honestly say that too: when someone says that this report or that the syndic is not critical with the government, then, I don't know, probably didn't read the report. Why did I say this before: this report is a buffet to the Government of the Generalitat and it is a buffet in this case to the lack of day-to-day government, which affects day-to-day government, isn't it? Of the thousands and thousands and thousands of Catalans, who have their problems, right? They have a lot of problems to get to, for example, at the end of the month. And the syndic said it, and you say it in the report: more than 30 percent of the complaints that the syndic has to deal with social issues. I think it's a good thing we're talking about this, too. And some of them have to do with fundamental questions that we have tried since our group placed and discussed in this case in the Parliament of Catalonia. One, and the syndic's referring to it, right? I think he's worked well, it's about guaranteeing the universality of the service from access to salvation. And I think that in this sense, therefore, the syndic highlights the good news that this might have tried to resolve in this case of mutual agreement between the two governments, also, first with the decree of the Generality and then with the withdrawal, right? , of the appeal by the Government Sánchez. Then there's an element that for us is fundamental, which is the guaranteed income of citizenship. And we've come here repeatedly, even in the debate on assumptions, about what should be a subjective right and it's not because it's a guaranteed income management to try to prevent certain presuppositional limits from being exceeded. And what we claimed was that there was a match in the Generality assumptions, that you reached 500_million euros, that you actually allowed it to be a subjective right. And it is denounces one thing that we have also done, on the lack, in this case, of initiative by the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, in this case, to deploy the regulation of guaranteed income. So, well, I'll put the report back; maybe the counselor won't like it, but I also recommend you read it. In this case, there is also the housing element. I think it's another one of the elements, of the foundational elements that we've located. And it makes special reference, and I think it's a new buffet in this case to the Government of the Generality, which has to do with the management of the months of habitat emergence. We in the debate on assumptions told the Government that one of the conditions was to put an absolute end to the waiting lists at the Emergence Table and that there was not enough of the 40_million euros that the Government of the Generality wanted to allocate to it. Therefore, a new buffet to this governance that has in this case the same Department, also, of Habitatge with the months of emergence. And then I think it's also worth saving some things that the syndic also referred to, that they have to see, for example, also with the denunciations. And to place as there is a very important dimension of genera in this case of people affected by denunciations and also, which I think is worth highlighting, that 10_percent of these denunciations affect people who have some type of disability, which I also believe is an element that the syndic also places uncertainly. A second element that I also want to highlight, that we have also placed as a warning from the iniciator practically of the legislature, and we have placed, for example, also, in the concrete case of the Costa Brava, until and until the councilman told us that we were the ones who set the territory on fire. [[Funnel veils]] , as soon as... – yes; I will get you, in this case, the transcript of the commission – when we alerted, right? , of the situation that had been living at the territorial level, fruit also of the extraordinary report that the syndic made and that I also want to highlight, in this case, about the environmental and urban conflicts in Catalonia and especially those that they also have to see not only in this case with the Costa Brava, but also with other parts of the territory, as at these times that is constituted a platform also named SOS Pirineu, inspired by that of the Costa Brava. I would also like to point out that the syndic speaks, obviously, of a topic that is fundamental to us, that is contamination, also related in this case to the climate change. And I would also like to note in this case that the syndic values – certainly in more detail, which we also believe is an incentive to do so – the measures taken in this case for the Barcelona Assembly in the fight against contamination. And finally he also talks about a phone element for us, which is the poor energy, and in this case access to basic sub-administrations, once again, too, placing elements that for us are phone elements. It's also about transparency, and in this case, it's also about transparency, isn't it? from the right to good administration. I believe that it is also a fundamental element for us, especially since the entry into force of the Law of Transparency. And then there are some elements that we also share, in this case, with the syndicate, that are elements to preserve and in this case also to act politically, that are those who have to see freedom of expression and also political participation. And I think he makes the special syndic reference, and I think we have to work for him too... obviously, for what he does, right? , who talks about the hate crimes. And I think it also points in the right direction the syndic when it finds that hate crimes have to see when they affect collections that may probably be vulnerable to their ideology, their condition or, in this case, their situation. But they don't affect, in this case, the hate crimes, for example, the police, who go, don't they? , to repress October 1 in particular. A thought that they even share in this case, right? , human rights advocacy entities like Amnesty International. I also want to finish by highlighting your..., and I've made reference to it now too, the eight extraordinary reports. I think they are, in this case, and I honestly say, material that is useful for parliamentary groups if they are to work and read. And in this case I would also like to highlight what makes reference to the Castor report. It is useful for us and has been very useful in this case in the work and work of the investigation committee. I believe that it denounces in this case the extractive elites of the State, and how they work and how it worked, I would say, one of the main economic, environmental and political scams at the level of the State, which has affected governments of different color, both of the Socialist Party and of the People's Party. And, therefore, I would also like to highlight, therefore, some of these eight reports that he has made. I'm done, and I'm done with two thoughts. It meant that only 2 or 3 per cent of the resolutions issued by the syndic are not accepted, and it meant that it is time for political action. In any case, congratulations, because they're more like you than we are. Unfortunately, many of the resolutions that we approve, in this case, to the Parliament of Catalonia – I refer, for example, to the famous, I would say, of the drop of 30_percent of university fees – so, even though it is coming into its parliament, it is not complete. But in any case, we encourage him to continue in this direction. And, finally, I would say, therefore, as you mean what it is time to do politics. We try; we try to talk about many of the themes that the syndic places, we try to transfer them to Parliament, and we try to talk, unfortunately, even though it seems that it is possible to speak only of a certain thing, of things that affect the citizens of Catalonia day by day, of those things that mostly, in any case, are transferred to the syndic as a complaint, that are above all social and environmental measures. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.51.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, and that is why Congressman Carles Riera has the word for a time of seven minutes and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.52.0	Well, syndicate, before we get into the political appraisals of his report, and since this is his past in the tank, we want to before we recognize, thank and congratulate his pocket as a heavyweight syndicate. With you and your team, the heavyweight union has done a rigorous, committed and quality job. And he's done it in very difficult times and situations. And we hold this positive value of its action until and when we do not agree with some of its positions, as is now the case with the Segregation Pact, which we have not subscribed to, or as is the case with its later recommendations regarding the anti-repressive symbols in public institutions. Despite these disagreements on issues that are not minor, we want here today to reiterate our congratulations, recognition and thanks to your pocket and to your team's sidekick. And in this brand we also want to highlight our very positive appreciation of a theme of the future and that you have identified at the end of your intervention, as is the human rights plan of Catalonia. Sense of doubt, it will be a useful and positive tool to advance in our country. That being said, your 2018 report tells us that we find ourselves in a situation of social emergence. 32_percent of rebuttal complaints for the Greuges Syndic correspond to this problem. Inequality is said to be equal; we are said to be unequal; we are said to be in capitalism and injustice. But your report also tells us that this inequality and the poor who go astray has above all the face of a woman; of a woman with children and dependent people at her expense. And even more: his report also tells us that 66 per cent of complaints related to denunciations also come from women, mostly from minors. Therefore, we see how capitalism in Catalonia, accompanied by governments with neoliberal policies, produces and reproduces inequality; an inequality that steals the right to a life worth more than 20_percent of the population. And he does it even more violently and forcefully when it comes to women and infants, and even more so when it comes to migrant and racialized women. Women and children who, on the other hand, also suffer from male violence and sexual abuse, who, together with attacks and discrimination against LGBTI people, remind us, with cruelty and contunence, as their report also shows, that we live in a society under the yoke of patriarchy. Patriarchal capitalism and its structural violence, this is the system that generates inequalities and injustices that the syndic's report makes manifest and that institutions, not Catalans, do not reverse. And why don't they reverse these inequalities and this structural violence? So why are they refusing to expropriate the empty floors of the Sareb and other great estates, which we know perfectly well, but we do not want to face, which is the only solution to deal with the systemic violation of the right to housing. Or because they support a concerted school system with schools of different categories that generates, by nature and structurally, school segregation, and, therefore, also social segregation. And because these institutions and their governments are also complicit in companies that control, for private benefit, the basic sub-administrations of the people, causing, for example, the scourge of the poor energy. Or because they drive a model of development based on tourism, real estate negotiation and extractivism that does not only destroy the territory, as you very well know in your report, but which generates social gentrification, it means that it constantly and systematically expels the popular classes to urban and social suburbs, each time more in forms of life in terms of infrahabitation. Because they continue to maintain a precarious labour market, especially for women and young people, and public and fiscal policies that do not redistribute wealth and opportunities to the levels needed to do justice. And it means that the hope of life among the poorest people is more than one year younger than that of the richest people. And from this, ladies and gentlemen, the structural violence of capital against the popular classes is said. And all this in the wake of a state and some institutions, also the autonomous – also the autonomous – that, before its multiple crises of legitimization of economic, political and also territorial nature and organization of the State, restrict social rights, is shielded from dissent by the violation of civil and political rights, also by the criminalization and repression of protest, the limitation of freedom of expression and political participation. At more crisis in the state and system, no more democratic transformation, but more repression and more closure of the regime: law bites, article 155, political judges, arrest, exile and persecution of rightful phonenal collections, as now the right to self-determination. And for what it does to the law bite, a date that seems very relevant to us: in eight months, to institutions of the Government of the Generality, 16,093 issuing sanctioners – in the mark of the law bites. That's the picture. A panorama that we will only – only – grasp with constant struggle for the social, civil and political rights of all, at all times, and falling the rule, falling the rules that support inequality, injustice and repression. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.53.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then it's the turn... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, you should remember that members of the public, people in the public gallery cannot show approval or disapproval of speeches. Thank you. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, and has the words of Congresswoman Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.54.0	Thank you, Vice-President of Parliament. Members, Members..., I would also like to say hello to the President of the Generalitat, but of course we have a President of the Generalitat more busy in changing the color of the bonds of the Palau de la Generalitat or replacing them by emoticons, than by addressing the issues that affect this Parliament, as could be the syndic's report. In short, we have a government concerned with pantones or chromatic scales. If this is not a chapter of Monty Python, make sure you look at it; this should be included in the syndic's report: how there is a government leaving office, a government of colors, but a government that, of course, has long since abandoned reality. You, Mr. Syndic, have a problem; a serious problem. And it's that when you say things with common sense, when you say things that interest the vast majority of Catalans, when you refer to what your powers are as a defender of the people, as a syndic of Greuges, you don't make any kind of case. Because when you talk about health, about education, this government is in office and does not attend to your reports. Look, when you talk about things that have that obvious reality, as is, for example, the case of health..., by the way, in the vicinity of this Parliament, right now or in a while, there is just a concentration of professionals in the sector. When you talk in your report about the serious deficiencies that the Catalan health system suffers from with these waiting lists, it is attended to and listened to. And I would point out that in this plenary we are going to present a motion on the shortcomings of pediatrics in primary care. You are useful, Mr. Syndic, when you fulfill your responsibilities as Syndic of Greuges. But when they make you an independent propaganda commissioner, then, believe me, there is no use to the institution you represent; it is useful as a belt of transmission to the Government of the Generalitat at this time, occupying the public space of everyone for their own benefit. Because you hastened a lot to talk about the report of 1 October; the report on 155, in short, the reports of the parties, written to the Government of the Generalitat, so that you would rightly act as rapporteur, that you would justify the action of the Government when no one else in his or her right mind listens to them, because this, as I said, has become an episode of humor. But when it comes to talking about these realities you have not been so hasty to report to us; in fact, most of them have come late. You do not mention now, in this speech, something that is serious. And it is that nationalism, which although ideologically always believed to be the heritage holder of the Catalans to tell them what they should be, how they should feel to be good Catalan – that is the Pujolist and Pujolist plan of all life – now also make use of the public spaces of all. Look, the independenceists in your house who paint the walls of yellow, put ties in the bathroom or in the kitchen, but in the spaces of everyone, as is the Palau de la Generalitat, which does not belong to Mr.Totra, who refrains from making private patrimonial use of his interests, because what must be done is to represent all Catalans. And, of course, with the change of bannerism, what he is doing is his own political campaign. And this, Mr Syndic, you must denounce, because, if not, you are not doing the job of defending all Catalans, but the Catalans on the independence side that you should be interested in defending as, I insist, the propagandist commissioner of the independenceists. You've recommended a reading for us. So, thank you, I'll take a look at what you've recommended, but I'll take advantage of it and also recommend a reading. [[the speaker shows the free Identity, by Francis Fukuyama]] , because on this you, syndic, do not speak, and perhaps it is one of the biggest problems you have at the moment Catalonia : the exclusive identities, those that instead of putting ties that unite, put ties that stigmatize, that point out and that differentiate to exclude. The populist nationalism that takes just this restrictive identity and leaves a large part of the citizenry out. Of these, Mr Syndic, you must make a report, of how the political power in Catalonia is elevating to the category of institutional policy the discourse of the exclusive identities, of those who want to separate as we think, make us citizens first or second according to whether we are independent or not. Too bad, you've run out of time. You will no longer be able to make the report that would have truly served in history, over time, to give a real reflection of what happened here in Catalonia. That instead of having a political power that would serve to unite, reconcile and unite consensus, there was a political power that intended to stigmatize us, that intended to invisibly part of Catalan citizenship and that intended to establish ties to separate rather than to unite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it is the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group and has the word Gemma Espigares, for a period of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.56.0	Thank you. Good morning Members, Members, as it cannot be in any other way, I would like to begin this intervention by thanking the team and the syndic for the work done, not only this report of 2018, but all the trajectory that has taken the last few years and that has been done. Let me tell you that the perplexity with which I emerge at the Faristol is great, because when it is the first parliamentary term of a Member and what is found..., you're going to scenarios like today, that we come to discuss a report, concretely, for whom you can read it, that you have 335 pages, and that we spend 99_percent of the time discussing one_twenty, thirty pages, and not everything else, as at least it's funny. In committee, the other day the syndic explained to us – and today perhaps not so little – that he made more than one hundred and forty visits to the territory. Therefore, we understand this as a more open exhibition of the institution and we would also like to highlight it. I believe that today we see with the least – with the least – that we are in the electoral campaign, the interventions that have preceded me, as the least show that we are in the electoral campaign, and that for much of a political demand, it seems that everything here is worth it. When there are deputies who talk about shame..., of course, shame maybe it's..., maybe it is, isn't it? , making an intervention and leaving the Ple without even listening to the companions; shame perhaps is that the deputy who spends less hours in the Ple comes to tell us whether we are in the Ple or not. What's more, she's a vice president... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no, it's not that I'm crazy, no. [[The speaker turns the index dit on the temple.]] It's just that these gestures you make are not even respectable. A deputy today, Mr. Cid, demanded respect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.57.0	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.58.0	Do it like this. [[The speaker repeats the gesture he has done before]] To a deputy is not to maintain respect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.59.0	Congresswoman, one second. Be respectful to the deputy who has the use of the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.60.0	I'm saying it because it's not just the least time it's going on in plenary, all it's taught, it's that she's vice president of the Youth Commission and she didn't even come the day we picked her out. She didn't come in one day, I feel like a vice president. [[Greetings.]] Look, for me, being a congresswoman is something more than coming here to mount the clock, it's something more than signaling a syndic. Certainly, a syndic who is currently being repudiated by more parliamentary groups than archebishops who, at the very least, take up pederasty in church. So, as we at least get to look at a little bit, at what point we're living and what we're doing. Yesterday a member of the Citizens' Group said: "When we govern, this will not happen. So, look, I don't know if this is going to happen in this country, from my point of view it's going to mean that I hope not, that you never govern this country, but as you ask everyone – and I try to apply it to me – this respect I give, and not just with all the forms. I know of those who play a little bit to say the theme of the blanks, because I understand that when one is not here, he is out, he is working, he is doing other things, but it is that at each Ple – at each Ple – someone comes out to say that if there is the president, that if there is not; that if there is a deputy, that if there is not. Maybe we should look at one more little thing. And I'm not going to tell the congressman, even though Congressman Cid has done it, you've assigned a specific person for a tweet, I'm not going to refer to a specific person. Now, as a matter of fact, to speak of Mr. Rufián, who seems to me to be well known to all, use the number two of the list of the Congress. Maybe it's the left-wing convention list that's been looked at with a lot of gain. So that's good, that's what Esquerra does, having people like the Ruphian who do a great job and we have a lot of other people who do a lot of work. And you'll understand, I'll tell you, I'm a member of Lleida's deputy and, therefore, in Lleida, as a militant, I was able to take the chance of choosing Deputy Eritja, who is currently a deputy, so that I can go back to the lists. And in the rest of the country, I trust one thing that some people feel, say, to expand the base, others in the same day, that is to enlarge and that is to try to get more people to join this project. So, if you want to signal people, perfect. But what I'm going to tell him is that those who use the matches in the election campaign, so maybe they should also have to look... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, in the campaign and after the quests, they stay and take them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.61.0	One second, Congresswoman. The honourable Member is using the word, you cannot interrupt a honourable Member who uses the word for nothing. When I'm done, you ask me the word, if you have regular justification, maybe I'll give it to you. In any case, Mrs Espigares has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.62.0	Thank you. It's just that I understand that, like I'm still tall, I can't finally talk about social issues that matter to me, huh? But anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.63.0	Madam Member, I also want to make a point, that some group could surely claim that the subject which is the subject of the debate is being referred to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.64.0	Yeah. How, surely, he'll have reminded all the groups, huh? I'm trying to do it. There's been talk of twenty-one days in the syndic's office. So, look, I'd suggest someone like President Forcadell, someone who sure has defended social rights. But this syndic doesn't like them because he defends social rights and, if we introduce a woman, like President Forcadell, they wouldn't like them because they don't have a liberal feminism and they have a real feminism. Therefore, there are those who do, it is noted that we are in the campaign and that they do not like them. So I think we should be able to move on. It's a year marked by political exceptionality, I think that's obvious; there's a deafening silence with what's going on with some of the institutions, and so that's why this campaign that some of us are trying to pursue links understand that it's going to become a social rights campaign from now on that's probably what 99_percent of people would also deserve. I would like to set an example, because I will start by talking about salvation, which is those agreements that we come to the Health Commission unanimously, which is practically 90 percent of the agreements to the Health Commission. When we have visitors, here in Parliament, that's another of the jobs we do with this one that some people denounce... that obviously someone is more profitable than someone else, huh? But some of these tasks we're doing are also explaining to the people we're doing to the commissions. And when I tell them that the Health Commission 90 percent of the agreements are taken for granted, they look at me with a face of perplexity, that they don't believe it. So, to the Health Commission, all these agreements have allowed, for example, that, with lists of hope, we have talked about the management of demand, with good examples, not only do they bring signs to teach what is not good, but when there are good examples in the territory, such as Dr. Gódia, last week, to the Health Commission, who explains to us how to reorganize the management of demand to primary care; the increase in budgetary endowment, more than 100_million euros that the health professionals have already seen returned to the name this month – this is also good that we also explain it. Congresswoman Moreta told me about the waiting lists. And as long as they're important! So much! I will not be the one to say no, but he will understand that from my point of view, unlike what you have said, there are things more important than others. For me, it is said priorities, and this is what we did with the assumption – unlike the PSOE assumption, which was a toast to the sun – we tried to make concrete proposals with the assumption that neither you nor the commons, in the electoral campaign, wanted to approve – that it was given priority. Another thing that the syndic's report says: the universalization of healthcare. So, yes, I think this is a good year, because, by luck, the PSOE withdrew the unconstitutionality appeal, despite the efforts of some because this is not the past, and we have a system that allows everyone to be healed – for everyone–, despite the citizen's abstentions and the votes against the PP – yes, despite them, we have greetings for everyone – Parliament and Congress, both places. Here there is coherence; they vote the same here as there. So, clean up for everyone. Guaranteed income. He also talks about the syndic's report on the problems. It's true, I need to improve the information, and I think the department has said, that it was collecting this back and that the complaints were... even though they had decreased, the complaints, and that's also backwards to the syndic's report, we need to keep moving forward. And there is also an important fact, and it is the feminization of the poor, of which you also speak and which we cannot escape. Talk about childhood fears, too. Despite the fact that today there was no agreement on the institutional declaration to condemn the attacks on young migrants that you asked the Health Commission, despite the fact that there was no agreement on all parliamentary groups, from the Republican Left, we condemn this and all the attacks. Also the National Pact against School Segregation, which we have had the chance to meet this week and which advances in this sense. Also non-discrimination in crimes... non-discrimination. And in this sense remember that Amnesty International, in its 2016 report, already pointed out that it was disproportionately restricting the crime of hatred and the limitation of freedom of expression. On environmental issues, you have spoken about the report or you have announced to us a report on the contamination and I am sure that the group will gather it, read it calmly, because the stain that we are leaving in the territory, as the Deputy Citizen is, is irreversible, and therefore we also need to take environmental issues more firmly than we have been able to do so far. On issues of urbanism and mobility, the government works, and the councillor has explained it many times, with the connectivity of rural nuclei. And, some time we have also told the committee, sure that in places like the Garrigues, where the fiber practically not up and, therefore, does not allow it to work with things like ambulance 5G, with direct connectivity, sure that the councillor will continue to work there, as he has done so far, because this connectivity is better, as is already being done and as, for example, the Lleida Diputation has already announced. Also in the human dimension of urbanism, also in housing themes, we have claimed 30_percent of the social housing of the Sareb; we have discussed it many times, indeed, also with the concrete report that the Synod made on housing, and, in this, I believe that today it is ill-advised to give the scalp to the two people who died today in a piss to Tortosa. And that also makes us continue to work on these resources that the great people need. In matters of citizen security, the Councillor has also reviewed the compliments of suicide prevention programmes; in fact, not the Councillor, the people working at the Councillor's office and the team behind it. The syndic called for a new protocol to be incorporated into the psychological treatment part and this is working together with the Health Department, and we look forward to seeing the results soon. The issue of universities has come out, and it has been claimed that it is being followed or that the Parliament's agreement to lower taxes is substantial. And I've reminded Congressman Cid, as I've said other times: there's already a zero-and-one line down, and the assumptions were that there's a 2, 3, 4 line down, and up to 5. And, despite the fact that there are no presuppositions, despite the fact that neither this is likely to agree, in lowering university taxes, that it is true, that they are high, despite that, we will continue to work, certainly, from Esquerra, because the Government, as Councillor Chacón has already announced, lowers university taxes. There is also the subject of the B-2 level of English, and in this there were scholarships to be able to approach it and keep moving forward. It has not been felt today that there is a deafening silence on the part of some universities in denouncing the lack of support, when there are electoral syndics who are persecuted and who are university professors or when there are people in prison and in exile who are university professors. And, therefore, we also ask the universities that make that paper they have to do, to give support to everything. And, on the issue of freedom of expression, the broad ties and other elements claimed, the syndic concluded the report that the Administration could not limit the exercise to the right to freedom of expression, despite what we have seen this week, with electoral campaign themes. He was talking about the ideological charge... whenever it's on time. I can tell you, for Republican Left: it will be as punctual as it is the judgment of democracy that we are living and the enterprise that we have of some people. That's how punctual it will be, because it's been more than a year since this farce lasts. And, look, it's like probably the one that asked you to stop chasing social ties and chasing social rights, if you get us to pull out banners where you put "Freedom political prisoners, so" You already understand me..., how did the mayor of the Fuliola. And if that's the way we have to remind them that there are prisoners and exiles and exiles, then that's the way we'll do it. I ended up talking about the issue of equality, because it seems to me that it is very important, and, in this sense, not only the things that the syndic to the report highlights but also the need for us to move forward with the Rules of Parliament. The government made an equal plan and is applying, we should go faster, and I think an example of this same week can show us where to go. The law calls for equality in the organs; the deputy Vidal, this week, to the question where we are working for the Law of the Public Health Agency, made a proposal to go further, and said: "Not only the effective equality, but we will not constitute governmental organs, we will not constitute organs of participation of the Public Health Agency if they do not carry this parity for themselves. So, if it's not there, it's not going to pull in. So this must also be a line to follow in the rest of things. And, in that, I'm sure we'd all have to find each other. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.65.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Lady Levy, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.66.0	For allusions, contradictions and point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.67.0	The question of order, finally, yes, but allusions and contradictions, in the same way as I said to Mrs Madaula, we will do so at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.68.0	Yeah. Contradictions, rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure; it is the duty of the Vice-President, because he was not the President, to demand that speakers be called back to the question if they left. And we have seen an intervention that lasted half the time to criticize and make false insinuations about members of this Parliament, without having been called to order by the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.69.0	I think he called it in to the deputy. In any case, as in general terms, they know that all speakers, and today's debate is also not an exhibition, many times go for the lines of the debate. In any case, it is clear to me that the Vice-President, acting as President, has commented to the Member. Thank you. Keep going. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr Morral's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.70.0	Thank you, President. Members of the government, deputies, deputies... salute the syndic Ribó and the team who presented the report to us today. I suppose it must be inevitable that the tempt to use this faristol when there are a few weeks left to be shouted at the polls..., to use it as a key, perhaps, more electoral, and that parliamentary groups may place more emphasis on those questions that identify them as political organization, but this, that it may be legitimate, obviously..., would require the reports to be adjusted or to bear the same reality. It has been said from here that there are Generalitat workers who have – that they have – those who keep the grooves. A few days ago, this week, on Tuesday, we held the 155th Committee of Inquiry where the Association of Public Servants, of Generality Workers, were compared, and they told us that effectively when the 155th was applied there was by; there was by the power of the State, for which the Government and the powers of the Generality were assumed. For the exercise that has real power to exercise it and, unfortunately, today, here, that has power to exercise it is the powers of the State. He also mentioned reviews of the syndic's report as if he were the president of the government; the syndic does not rule, the syndic even complains and makes suggestions and proposals. And, in this sense, if we read the syndic's reports correctly, you will see that, man, to a good extent used to being critical of the actions of the Government, because it goes to objectives of the concrete proposals that are proposed in the complaints, and the Government, therefore, has its limitations to be able to deal with these proposals, therefore, in the measure of the possibilities it has. For what it does to the report, I have classified three elements that..., three reasons, let's say, of analysis of this report, a report that responds to the year 2018, a year that has been special, exceptional, convulsive. And the year began a few days after the 21st of December elections, where they were seen violated in a way that flaring the fundamental rights... promoted from the very power of the State. The year 2018 cannot be heard without the facts of the year 2017, and we must also read that the year 2017 on the 6th and 7th of September the syndic made his reports, eh? And they say what they say, too. In fact, you, Mr Ribó, close your mandate with a good that we could define as the fi..., or from the beginning of a stage, of a path that we still have much to do, because what we are here..., is demanding, asking us to practice a right that is denied, the right of recognition, the right to self-determination. And this year, October 1, 2017, there was a real shock of sobrieties, with the celebration of this reference. A date that inevitably marks before and after. The right to self-determination that denies us the State, the one that closes the doors to us to talk about it and responds with repression. And the facts that make reference to this repression in good part are also produced in the first half of this year 2018, which I will refer to later. The second reason for this report are the indicators for the social complaints of this 2018. They are, in our view, very worrying, and some red lights are taught; the increase of a 32_per_cent of complaints in the social sphere is already a very clear indicator. The chronification of the poor is filled – they also tell us about the Third Sector Table – which today, one_of_five people in Catalonia, is qualified as poor; structural deficiencies, which make it difficult to access housing; gender discrimination and the poverty of single-parent families, mainly of the woman; the outbreaks of xenophobia, intolerance to diversity, and school segregation. These are some of the worrying aspects in which the emphasis is placed, therefore, the report. A third reason is that this annual report on the mandate of the Synod of Greuges, precept, let us say, in your obligation as the syndic, of course that today, for you, Mr Ribó, is a special report. Because, probably, if we do our dues right, then it will be the final annual report, so, you as the syndic presents us. After closing a nine-year term, which I will mention later, but what progress – for our group, the Junts Group for Catalonia, we value them very positively, for which it has led to this institution and for the feta management at such a complex time as we are living. In which it has shown firmness and courage, always maintaining the autonomy – as it must be – of the institution and neutrality; always in defense of the rights and freedoms, even though these have been violated by the same power of the State. Because yes, 2018_was a year when there have been serious violations of political and civil rights at all unacceptable. It began the year, as I said before, after the elections of 21st December, called for the president of the Spanish Government, to whom it did not correspond, Mr Rajoy, with the will that the theses of the 155 fessin majority. Against whom they are pursuing, a majority of independent Members of this Parliament has been revalidated. And let's start this warrant with interference from the state's judicial apparatus, avoiding giving compliments to the people's voice at the polls. We couldn't vote for President Carles Puigdemont, or Jordi Sánchez, when they had the whole right. And the investiture partner and advisor Jordi Turull was hired. She has been in prison for a year, exile, vagaries of fame, obstructive measures make it difficult to govern, with suspensions of office, rights and duties of deputies, altering the majority of Parliaments. It's been and it's still, these protagonists. God doesn't exist – god-n'hi-do – this 2018. 2018 also – and the report mentions this – was the year when the social consequences of 155 occurred. In fact, the political consequences have already been manifested in a very cruel way, immediately, in 2017, when it was removed, therefore, the Government, the President, and dissolved the Parliament of Catalonia. The syndic has already submitted, as of May 2018, a report on the criminal disproportion applied in the political conflict, in addition to the application of 155, which was discussed in Parliament's plenary session in November. I take this opportunity to invite you to consult the website of the Public Servers of Catalonia, to which I referred before, to know precisely what the application of 155 has entailed: its effects, consequences, which involved in issues of loss and paralysis of initiatives, investments, subsidies or other own actions, which have affected thousands of people, businesses, and in a very special way the most vulnerable sectors, as we are manifested in this week of the Third Sector, in the Research Commission of 155. In fact, I suggest to groups of the Socialist Party and the PP and Ciutadans, that they do not go to the Commission of 155, that they repent, in their negative, and that they come, listen, ask; that they can illustrate them at a time when the threat of applying 155 without justification is one of the elements, let us say politics, in this pre-election campaign that we have ahead. In this context, doesn't it seem normal for people to keep living the firm, determined, protestive attitude, as this past disbanded in Madrid? Of course it is – of course it is – because we live a time of harsh repression. Often, we don't give it to each other clearly, but we live in a time of harsh repression. Controversies surrounding the display of various types of claimed signs, photographs, flags, placards and other types of elements such as the groc colour, the groc placards, are to be understood as exercising the right of freedom of expression of physical persons, which materially results in these actions, and not in public administration. On the part of our group, all the support for the Government in these initiatives, to maintain, as far as they can, the sign of solidarity, the sign of empathy with those who suffer the most from imprisonment and exile, in the actions of the institutions. They also recognize and respect, therefore, the syndic's reports; all our support for President Torra. The expression of an idea such as solidarity before injustice, before the violation of rights, does not represent a party. Public spaces are and must be plural, not neutral. People have made, of the cave, a color of empathy, solidarity with those who suffer repression. It's not a party color, it's a dark color, it's a color that expresses values, solidarity with the sufferers, the pain of the prison without being judged, and the pain of exile. Actually, it's very transversal, huh? There are citizens of parties that are in these moments defending, so... against this place, that also empathize with these values. On the part, let's say, more social, in the syndic's term of office, it was proposed, it was achieved..., we favored that the health services, therefore, were universal by right of citizenship. This has been an important source, but it differs from many other communities. And, therefore, it's a price to pay. In change, however, for what the poor and the most socially vulnerable people are referring to, we must promote and promote what is the law of guaranteed income of citizenship, which we fully share with us what the syndic says to us, so also..., proposes to us. The issue of housing is one of the major problems, in which we also support the proposals, therefore, made by the syndicate. In fact, as far as social housing is concerned..., among other reasons, for the lack of a sufficient social housing stock, and for the collapse of the months of emergence that, at these times, therefore, we have. Also for the excessive delay in assigning a habitat, after the table has dictated a favorable assessment on the bank rescue and the Sareb. The Government and the Parliamentary Group share the sentiment of general considerations expressed by the syndic. And the government, among others, is making a significant effort, even though it may seem to us, at these times, insufficient. The relationship of themes to which the report refers, and which we fully share: the gender perspective, the co-sponsorship of the medicine, the waiting lists, the free choice of the meth, the rebuking of patients, lack of resources, equality of opportunity, education, integration of immigrants, the proliferation of urban projects with a speculative dimension... – a theme, this, too important – the whole package, let us say, of social complaints are an important package that can be addressed and that this Parliament and the Government can embrace, of reference. In fact, the year 2018 expresses very well the two cares of the currency: the link between social emancipation and national emancipation. National rights are closely linked to social rights. Sovereignty, we want it to precisely dispose of the tools and resources to deal with the challenges that the moment demands of us. In this sense, you must be aware that we are on a path that you do not return, in the direction of the conquest of the republic and these rights. In this term of office that ends, therefore, the syndic Ribó, we consider that it has been – of new years – positive, and qualitatively very important. Today, from the institution, it has a much higher knowledge than it was. The approach to the territory was important, with the agreed with the joints. And with the cooperation and recognition of other organizations in defence of rights at the international level, so, there has been our institution. Technological modernization and participation in telematics systems, to be able to participate and address the union, has also been an important step. The increase in sectoral reports to deepen concrete proposals and analysis and diagnostics on sectoral themes has also been an element that has completed the work of the institution in a very important way. And we congratulate the syndic and his team for the work done, for the fart that leaves the institution, which today is, without any doubt, a guarantee reference for the citizen...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.71.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.72.0	...in defense of rights and people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.73.0	Thank you, Congressman. To finish and thank the interventions of the groups, has the word again the syndic of heavyweights.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.74.0	Thank you, President. I would like to add some elements to the camera's consideration, on the arguments we have made and on the 2018 report that have gone out in part of the previous interventions. Telegraphically: Emergence habitat equal to xoc plane. I won't repeat what you say about the respect report, it was discussed in committee, it's in the 2018 report. It seems like a very simple word, but it has very important gyragons, from the moon of the Sareb, which seems that no one is going to put it in place and is paid for all the taxpayers, and even for a good part of the misdemeanours, until it is passed to the great majority of assemblies, in which the months of emergence are completely wasted. Pla de scoc, all right. Childhood. We add arguments that have been given. Every year, according to the report that is presented in this room in November, there are references to the list of themes that are to be completed, since the Law of Opportunity of the year 2010. There are two themes, on which we would put a lot of emphasis because, possibly, the strategies of the debate in each of them have not been sufficiently taken into account. They're xenophobia and segregation. The syndic is obliged to reiterate: zero tolerance with xenophobia, and he could almost leave it here, but it is up to you, before anyone else, to lay the foundations with concrete agreements that affect the education system, the communication system, the social system. But it's a big, big, huge problem. And what can grow within Europe, and we are part of Europe. When we consider, as someone else in the Atlantic, that we can build a wall that will prevent anyone from coming to our home, and at the same time, as Professor Olivé says well in a 2005–2005 book, huh? 14 years ago – we have to go to the inescapable half-breed, but even for reasons as simple as Christmas. Now, all that can be analyzed sociologically, has provoked a red light that should alarm everyone. And I'm sorry to say, I don't see them. I therefore call again on all the Members of Parliament to put this issue first. Catalonia cannot have the slightest partisan option of xenophobia. There are European systems that have them and systems that do not have them. And the other is the Covenant against Segregation, which is not directly that; there can be a relationship, but it is not directly, not much less, that. We have explained by active and passive that they do not correspond to the degree of migration of barrels, segregation, that they do not correspond to the system. There may be segregation between two very different public schools or two concerted ones. It is a challenge to move forward to equal opportunities, it is the great mechanism of equity, which is degrading. And this syndic – I know he won't like it either – regrets that there are parliamentary options that don't want to add. No one agrees to the 100_per_cent with no definition of public policies, none; it would be absolutely idyllic. But you only see the whole educational community starting to discuss this issue, with super-long positions, long ago, with Councillor Meritxell Ruiz, with Councillor Clara Ponsatí and now with Councillor Bargalló, and as we have been putting the common denominator, which can now begin to walk, they come back to invite, everyone, to add themselves there. On the subject of rights and freedoms, I am not going to repeat it, the Spanish Organic Law of Reform of the Criminal Code says that there are conducts that do not deserve a penal toilet, and less still the prison: the call for illegal references. Is that what it sounds like? It's Spanish organic law. And I can go on, because the date is still more abundant. 2019 embarrasses me, read this, because I'm not reading a pamphlet, nor a partisan statement, I'm reading a Spanish organic law. And lastly, two questions that are not on the report... one is in part, that is the election board and all the symbolism; the other is not people, but it is an announcement for all of you. Has anyone, like a parliamentary group, come to the Central Electoral Board to ask that I change the rules that will now allow the day of voting for someone from an election to prevent the right to vote for the disabled? When the syndic is denied competence to go to the Central Electoral Board, as some have done, let them know that this syndic has addressed the Central Electoral Board to say: "This is a barbarity; that when we have advanced changing the law because they can vote for people who have disabilities, how can we leave it in the hands of the electoral months to discern on this issue? Why are they not motivated, Parliament of Catalonia, to defend the rights of the disabled and their right to vote? Is it a partisan option, this, or should it be an option of the entire society's representative collection? Has any of the present been belluged to fight the one who still feels a shame, that there are electoral blocs, that goes against most of the rules of the most advanced democracies, that create a disparity of options at the time of using the communication media? This syndic, many years ago, beats the race to end the electoral blocs and the electoral pads, which is when the parties give the journalist the recording of the act, it is not that the journalist, with his camera, grave things that do not please the option that the act has done. That's 2019, and they're in the mood for freedom of information. And if the election board kept them because there were no clear legislative or policy options to fight them. This syndic will continue to do so. Like the theme of symbolology. That the year 2017 – and here there are speakers who have ignored it completely –, 2017, when the Tarragona Electoral Board banned the Association of Gent Gran de Reus from demonstrating in the campaign with the groceries for the Market Square, as they do every day of the year, the syndic gave them the reason, we raised it to the Central Electoral Board and, out of the campaign, yes, the late, finished the campaign, they gave us all the reason. That's why we have to move who wants to deserve the title of guarantor and defender of rights. The rest is literature. We are talking about concrete facts around the right of voting and participation. And the announcement is that – you certainly don't have to know – you have passed the Democracy Commission through the Law, which is the crown jewel of the Council of Europe, approved the principles of Venice, where it is defined that it is a defender. And they see that statements that are fanciful in this forum are aberrant – I am subratlo, aberrant – for which the Democracy Commission through the Law maintained, of respect for defenders, as it passed to some parliamentary group that, to address it to international authorities, it has produced a direct, frontal response, saying: "Abstain 'from thinking or acting against the independence of defenders. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.75.0	Thank you, syndic. Now, if the groups want to intervene... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yeah? Forward, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.76.0	Yes, I hope... President, the syndic's coming to the stage... thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen..., Mr Syndic, the first thing I want to say to you is that we, in addition to going to the Central Electoral Board to ensure that there are fair elections here in Catalonia..., which we have no guarantee of, among other things, because the institutions that should ensure that the public authorities comply with this objectivity and neutrality, in favour of citizens, such as the Greuges Synod, do not act. And as we have had to ask, and they have given us the reason, for I also now tell you that we also ask the Central Electoral Board to correct the last criterion on the vote of the disabled, which hindered it. And we asked very recently, through Mr Íñigo Alli, who is in the Union of the Navarro People, who is in coalition, as you know, with us, there in Navarra, and has already obtained it, and the Central Electoral Board has rectified. So, yes, some of these groups who are here too, apart from ensuring the clean up of the elections, have watched over the vote of the disabled. [[Greetings.]] And then, Mr. Syndic, then, look, it seems that sometimes up to a quarter of an hour, which is a loose time to make an assessment of an extensive report, like yours, of three hundred and peak pages, and of an extensive retaliatory of issues that you have not dealt with in the report either..., I did not want to stop remembering in this reply – because you have not referred to the answer you have given either..., I hoped that yes, but it has not done so – that in Catalonia there are plenty of institutions, some municipalities, statements by people who are not grateful, that it is very ugly, that it is declaring neighbors or people or compatriots people who are not grateful on the part of an institution, that breaks and that it is aberrant. You have used the word aberrant here. That is aberrant in Catalonia, that certain people are excluded because of their ideology in the municipalities is aberrant. And you don't see that, you don't see it in your 2018 report, either. He has not seen the threat of fines to those who remove ties, he has not seen the prohibition of acts in public places made to some political parties, depending on their ideology. There are mayors who give permission to Republican Esquerra or the ANC to mount a tent there, but they don't give it to Citizens. Do you think it's normal for that to happen in Catalonia? For I do not think so, Mr. Syndic, and this...... you should defend all people who in any population can have the right to freely access any political party that goes there to make their electoral offer, for example. That's not normal, and it's happening in Catalonia, and you silence it, Mr. Syndic. Political strikes, road cuts, railways, affecting the rights of all Catalans, which also happened in 2018. Many parents have not been able to take their children to school on the days when the CDRs decided to cut our roads, or cut off the stations, or have not been able to go to work, or have not been able to attend the doctor's appointment they had. And that violates the fundamental rights of Catalans. You didn't mention it either. Nor has he referred to the scandalous treatment of privilege in the visits given to imprisoned politicians by the Council of Justice. You didn't mention the theft, the theft of the data that I mentioned to you, you didn't mention it here. He did not come and he did not say: "Well, yes, look, regarding the census data of all Catalan citizens who were stolen to make an illegal referendum and who are still exposed on the network... And the other day they showed it to me. Counselor, do you know, in this digital republic, that anyone can search with their DNI their address on the network, which is willing, because they have hacked them, they hacked the data to all Catalans to make that illegal referendum? That's how it happened; they showed it to me the other day: "Look, you go on this website, you put your DNI and you get the address out, what you did to facilitate the illegal vote in the illegal referendum. Well, that's... they stole those data from us, and there they go, on the net, Mr. Syndic. You haven't said anything about this either. Well, and then I wanted to teach you..., because we didn't know it before the first intervention, but I know, they're already changing the banners in the Generalitat and other public buildings: « Llibertat political prisoners and exiles [[the orator shows an image]] And now a white ribbon with the stroke of this red... [[The timer laughs.]] Look, it's a little..., these cunnings are a little bit of astute Mas ; that is, these cunnings are a little bit, already, of... You start to get used to us, but it's that in law there is one thing that the legislator always – and here we are legislators – tries not to do, which is to make descriptive enumerations of things allowed or prohibited, because they are not a claususus numerus. Then, any banner, put what you put, which you intend to claim, as the spokesman for the Republican Left said, the political prisoners, which is what you said, all proud: "It is that we with imagination will supply... No. It's just that the goal is for institutions to be neutral, you know? Then, if you already announce that your goal is precisely the same as that of the yellow tie, for this is prohibited by law, because you, as an administration, cannot overwhelm the rest of the citizens. Mr Syndic, do you see what I have to say to my fellow Members in the Chamber: that they are robbing the citizens? Do you not question this, Mr. Syndic? Really, huh? Really. Well, nothing, here we have inventive posters. [[the timer shows them]] : « Freedom peaceful fishes, and this other... very inventive. I congratulate you, it's funny, but it breaks neutrality in public buildings. Take them off. Let's go back to the board. Citizens are going back to the board, and you, some of you are already... Mr. Torra, who is not here now, is already at the trigger, absolutely, of having committed a criminal offence. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. Yes, Mr. Pujol, it is, and it's not because I say it, it's because the election board says it and the prosecution says it. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.77.0	Deputies, do not enter into debates between you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.78.0	Look, I'm gonna read you... yeah. I too have referred to the embezzlements that you, Mr. Syndic, despite the fact that there is ongoing embezzlement of public flows to pay for the process in Catalonia, despite the fact that... I've already announced that we've asked who paid for this banner, huh? , we have already asked, to inform us: who has made and with what money has paid this banner. In the same way as the senior prosecutor of Catalonia – news of yesterday – Francisco Bañeres Santos, underlines, in the decree opening the proceedings against Mr. Buch to pay, camouflage an adviser to make an escort from the fugitive of justice Mr. Puigdemont, in his decree opening the criminal proceedings, says: "The decision to provide an escort service in charge of the public era in favor of a person against whom a final and subsequent indictment for search and arrest for serious crimes is made could, if confirmed, become crimes of misappropriation and prevarication. This may be prevarication, there may be an irritating embezzlement, but if you..., the person who is going to replace Constellera Artadi is already a mayor who has gone to Waterloo with the money of her municipality because she said she was going to represent her municipality. Well, Mr. Syndic, these expenses you do with our money are an abuse. And everything you need for education, for... [[Funnel veils]] - Huh? [[Funnel veils]] , no; yes, for piolins, yes... –, for education, for health, for waiting lists, for the disabled, for all that, are spending it, Mr. syndic, in these troubles these gentlemen. Look, we, the next syndic – we have already put forward a bill for his successor – want him not to throw himself nine years, we want only six. We want you to be a professional, committed, neutral person. We want you to clear the black stage of the previous syndic, Mr Ribó; regretting how much, because nobody likes to make these bitter criticisms to a public office. We don't like it, but you should have defended us, and you've betrayed your position. We want the next person to be a person who is not meant, like Mr Ribó, to defend the process. We want and urge all groups to come to an agreement, and this time be generous and do not put a lord of meaning in the process or in independence, put someone of meaning for his legal wisdom and for his service and knowledge of the public administrations, so that he truly defends us. And if so, we will come to an agreement to replace and close this shameful stage of the syndic Mr Ribó, syndic of the process. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.79.0	Thank you, Congressman. If the rest of the groups want to intervene too, we've opened a turn... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If all the groups want to intervene, we'll do the same order we did in the first interventions. Yeah? Does it look like it? [[Pause.]] So, it's Mrs. Marta Moreta's return now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.80.0	Thank you. Well, I won't be a minute. Sindic, I'd like to ask you a question. Why, do you know what's going on? That this did not follow a debate of the annual report, it set a monologue of the syndic. Because you never answer the question. And since you don't have a word back now, I do ask you a very specific question that you can take advantage of to answer it in front of the communication media. See if we can feel it. And here's the question – see if I get a couple of times before I folded –: believe – syndic, huh? – that replacing a groceries with a white one is complimenting your resolution? Is it possible to say that in the communication media, since it is not able to answer any of the questions that we have made here between the hemisphere? I'd be fine if I said so, I'd be fine. And I also take advantage of..., I take advantage of the fact that a Member who has been to the Board of Trustees for three years and who has repeatedly asked her to make a report on the 6th and 7th... is able to make reports on two days, and I have been to the Board of Trustees for three years... well, let's say two, that I demand this report. There's no way, there's no way. I leave it useless, let's say, the theme he'll do, because I don't think you listen to me. Now, I'd really like you to answer that question I asked you. I take the communication media outside and answer this question, which seems to me that everyone will appreciate it. And respect the vote on disability, perhaps the syndic has asked; the political parties, too; but who has actually done so have followed the entities of disabilities, which they asked for, they have complained and, yes, Mr. syndic, is withdrawn – is withdrawn. And we do take care of ourselves. And we're talking about these things. Perhaps you are dedicated to talking about other issues that interest you, but in this Parliament the Socialist Party and Units to Advance we are talking about social issues. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.81.0	Now yes, Mr David Cid, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.82.0	I said in my intervention that in politics it's possible to do everything but the ridiculous, but it's that I think they get over each day, huh? I really don't understand them anymore. So it's hard for me to speak on behalf of people who are no longer there, but I don't know what Tarradellas would say if you saw them to the Government of the Generality. Because, today, a new master's play on the theme of the banner and the placards. But if we end up the same way. And, besides, they know that. Because it's not just..., if, moreover, they have read the syndic's report, that they have since the divender passed, more than Mrs. Artadi's mind; it refers to any political symbolism, not one in concrete. If it's us, at the Barcelona Assembly, even though we didn't agree, not only..., it's that we also removed the banner referring to the Open Arms. And we believe that the Open Arms is unjustly retained by the government of the PSOE in the port of Barcelona. So, a new master play and let's go back there. And while we're not talking about the judge, we're not talking about the syndic's report, or we're not talking about this case, for example, not defending Catalonia's self-government, which I'm telling you is what we're going to spend our own years talking about, depending on who the majority is, in this case, the government. The syndic – and you know it, because I've said it once too – does well and has to deny the assembly of parliamentary groups without discerning much of what they do – I also understand that it's their role. But I also wanted to refer to some of the things he has placed on issues of rights and freedoms of expression and participation. In any case, just remind her that the Barcelona Assembly and in this case the Commission of Salut, Ms Gemma Tarafa, and also the Mayor of Social Rights, Mrs Laia Ortiz, have claimed the rights to political participation in this case of persons with disabilities and have transferred in this case also to the electoral board the need to correct this error. The syndic also spoke with certainty about the electoral blocs. And I think I also speak with knowledge of cause if I can say that the syndic knows that there are political traditions of Catalonia that have historically defended... in this case, right? , the violation of electoral rights, the need to eliminate electoral blocs in this case. And so, too, what we have presented in this case from our group, from Catalonia to Comú Puem, also a proposal for reform of the electoral law that eliminates not only electoral pills but also electoral blocks. And he also knows the syndic, because many times he has also placed it, which, for example, in extraordinary reports, such as that made by the Castor, there have been parliamentary groups – and in this case I want to claim the work of the deputy Hortènsia Grau –..., of complaint..., which assumed the syndic's report. I also want to refer to some things that have been said. I insist on something I said: it's time to defend self-government, it's not testosterone time, it's not pit and colons time. Because I'm going back to asking another question. Is the syndic a coward with his resolution now? I... if I don't have a problem quoting him, if I mentioned him. I quote the unworthy and disrespectful words of Mr. Rufián. And that's what moved them, that's no time to do politics with lowercases. You talk sometimes about small politics; perhaps the syndic's report, as Mr Maragall says, is small politics, because it speaks about social policies. I know it's not there, but I'm sure you'll be able to translate it. And you're talking about expanding the base. Yes, I think we can talk about expanding the base; I also think we can talk about old politics and we can talk about transfuguism, that it's also one of the things that you do in this case at political time and in this case feeding the transfuguism that you sure agree that you have done. I also want to drive to Ciutadans. You, and I honestly say that, are a key to the government. If they're a rubble for the government [[Funnel veils]] because... yes, yes, I'm telling you: they're a "guy for the government," because you, with the total challenge you're making of the syndicate, allow one thing that's fundamental in this case for the government: give the feeling and debate about what the government wants to debate. And in this case it is not a government that does not govern, a government that does not make social policies, that does not make environmental policies, that does not make policies in this case of guarantees of rights. And you, with the challenge and your speech they're making today... if it's to facilitate them, in this case, political action to the government. It's very important what you guys do. We're only talking about one thing in this Parliament. Because you talk a lot about being the group that does the most in social policies. Look, it's not true. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mirin, that's not true for the congressman. But it's more like you end all the resolutions talking about the same, about the deep loops. If I told you one day, you presented, for example, to the Commission of Territories, which is there, a resolution to prevent the dead on the road that at the end only spoke of the deep links. If then..., the titles are very soft, but then we go to literality. And what you're doing is that, in this debate, for example, we don't talk about something that's fundamental; we don't talk about 31_per_cent, for example, in this case the syndic's complaints are about social policies. If the syndic is giving a buffet to the Government of the Generality, to its lack of compromises with social policies, to its lack of compromises with environmental policies, to its lack of compromises with educational policies, to its lack of compromises with health policies, and you just want to talk about the deep links. If they're the government's key, they're the key. There's the trial game and there's the anti-process game. And pim-pam, pim-pam-pum, and we don't talk about what Catalans and Catalans do every day. And in this, in this you are. You don't talk about what happens every day to Catalans and Catalans. For example, this very week is a situation..., and there is also a reference to the syndic when he talks about childhood, 24_percent of the risk of poor Catalans and Catalans, who believe the inequality of Catalonia, that Governor Torra - Aragonès is a disaster in the redistribution of wealth. And this is what we should be discussing in the Parliament of Catalonia; we should not be discussing all day about deep loops: deep loops yes, deep loops no. We should be discussing what happens to Catalans and Catalans on a day-to-day basis. And you... neither Juntes per Catalunya nor Esquerra Republicana nor in this case Ciutadans have this as a priority of their political action in the Parliament of Catalonia. And that's what the syndic says. And that's what happens to Catalans and Catalans every day. And you, I'm telling you the truth, are a key to this government, in this case, and a key to the process. And I'm telling you very clearly. And I end up with something that I'd also like to highlight. And back to the beginning, the syndic's report is in this case a phonetic alert about the problems that thousands of Catalans and Catalans have to reach the end of the month. And I'm telling you honestly. I have the feeling that in this Parliament of Catalonia we talk about a lot of things, but it costs us a lot to talk about it. I also think I would deserve a deep reflection on behalf of everyone. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent cry is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.84.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. Well, today we had an opportunity, a very important opportunity to be able to talk deeply and effectively about what the report of the syndic denunciation and what the report of the syndic proposed. Despite this, a good part of the group's interventions have been meant to talk about deep loops. Once more in the place of talking about very difficult problems than the syndic denounces in his report, of talking about social emergence, inequality, poverty, instead of positioning himself in relation to these complaints and making political proposals for how to resolve this situation, how to reverse this inequality, there are groups that have preferred to talk about deep links. And, look, this is what a parliamentary group tells you that, as we said, we do not share the syndic's position with respect to the issue of symbols. We think that public space is not neutral, nor will it ever be – nor will it ever be –; public space, including its institutions, is a space of dispute, of political battle, between some symbols and others. And we believe that anti-repressive symbolism today is not a partisan symbolism, it is a symbol that expresses the feeling of a large part – of a large part – of our people and that, therefore, it is logical for public institutions to reflect it. So this is what a parliamentary group tells us that it did not share the syndic's position and that it believed that the government should disobey the election board. But we wanted to focus on those questions that the trustee raised and denounced in his report. And we wanted to make proposals. We talked about expropriating the empty floors in the hands of the Sareb and the great tenors. No one has positioned themselves on this, despite the fact that everyone knows that it is the only measure that is possible and effective in order to alleviate the difficult housing shortage that has a large part of the population and that condemns it to precariousness, poverty and exclusion; no one has wanted to position himself on this issue, as on many others. Therefore, our indignation, our concern that today we have a golden opportunity for an in-depth analysis of one of the main problems of our country, namely inequality, poverty, and the feminization and racialization of this poor and this exclusion, the majority of groups did not want to address it. That said, we repeat ourselves in thanks and congratulations to the syndic's and his team's pocket. But we must say to you, syndicate, that, frankly, at these times, most of the answers that you ask this Parliament, we believe that by good or bad – surely, badly – they will not come out at these times of this Parliament; they will only come out of the struggle of the people, the struggle of social movements, the struggles that are making in the street and in the public space. They will only come out of the fights of those people who every day play the body for a freer and fairer society. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mrs Gemma Espigares' turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.86.0	Thank you, President. From the escho and quickly, to comment on four themes. The first, because it has been said today, several times, that it is the syndic of the process and I would like to remember that it is a syndic chosen since 2004, it seems to me that enough before the process and with strong consensus in this plenary. So, I understand you're not the syndic of the process. Secondly, for a subject that I believe has been consensual and that various Members have made no reference, and that is the issue of the JEC. Mrs Moreta said that parliamentary groups had positioned themselves, and I understand that we, as a group supporting the Government, would also like to make it known, and more so because we have the Councillor here, that the Department of Social Affairs and Families has also required the JEC to withdraw this instruction, because it assigned a collection, against the UN disability conviction, and because we must ensure that people with disabilities can also participate in political life. I doubt whether to do it, the truth, whether to answer... I think that the same sentence I ask respect and re-fuck a buffet, it is difficult, Deputy Cid, that I can prevent the rest from answering. Miri, we've got Lleida on a case of transfuguism. A congresswoman.....forgived, a registrar, to Lleida... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You've been talking about transfuguism. And I'm saying, to Lleida, we've had, of transfuguism, with a registrar who left from one group to another. There's no such thing as transfuguisme here. What has been done is... in a parliamentary group, where, like at least, the u, the two and the four of his list have folded, perhaps to revisit what they have done, instead of accusing the rest of the transfuguism groups. Because Esquerra will continue – he will continue – to pave the way that I said before and continue to defend people's rights. And if the commons, the older Initiative, continue to strain the other song, then they will also have to review what is at home, in order to accuse the rest of the people. And finally, ask the president or ask Congresswoman Levy to withdraw one of the gestures she has made. I understand that they may have political differences; indeed, political, many. He apologizes for me, in one of the things I could have said to him; not for the content, because I accused him of being one of the deputies who surely spends less time in the chamber and the content I think that's it, but for the apology. But in any case, I would ask you that the gesture that you have done less or stigmatizing people with mental problems withdraw it, because I think it's not against me, but it's against these people who stigmatize themselves. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.87.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr. Morral, when he is present.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.88.0	From the escó, president. Just manifest three things. A first, that certainly the report of the syndic of 2018 is a report of a high quality that describes a diagnosis of which is the situation of the social rights in the country. It describes with great precision and also makes concrete proposals regarding the themes of inequalities, which need housing, the risks of social exclusion, and also makes very concrete proposals to us, which it brings to the government as regards reversal in health, backs of school segregation, climate change and suggests that we bet on a pact against xenophobia, therefore, the buds that somehow begin to be seen. Therefore, it is a report that invites us to reflect and to political analysis and debate and reflection, and it is a purpose report. A second question: yes, the links are lax, but the prisoners are now being juxtaposed. And freedom someone has to defend them. [[Greetings.]] Liberties and prisoners are today judged by two persons, two magistrates who, moreover, are part of the Central Electoral Board. And the third question: a pride as a citizen of the institution of the Greuges Syndicate that we have in the country, which has proved to be brave; it has demonstrated tenacity; it has shown to be close to the territory, to the people; it has demonstrated also to connect with the citizenry, to the extent that the growing number of people who are close to the syndicate, have been able to consult, as it seems to me to remember, and towards the deu_ thousand, also, complaints that have been made, therefore, a significant amount, are growing progressively, which means also the work that the union of hardships is doing, that has done in the country, climbing it to the municipalities and making this institution a reference to our home. And, therefore, it must be for this institution an authentic pride. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.89.0	Thank you, Congressman. When this second came to an end, there were petitions from Members of this House. First, Mrs. Madaula and then Mrs. Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.90.0	Yes, thank you, President. For allusions by Mr. Carrizosa. That, when you mentioned that the walls do not have freedom of expression, I would remind you that those walls to which it refers, to which you refer, the institutions of Catalonia or the assemblies, are yours of popular sovereignty. And with his popular sobriety they are cathedrals of freedom of expression. And I want to defend freedom of speech as much from outside these walls. What I'm never going to defend is that inside these walls there's fascism. The fascism that you have helped to get into the walls of the Government of Andalusia, with those that you have arranged, with the fascism of Vox. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.91.0	Lady Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.92.0	Thank you very much. Allusions and contradictions. I'm in the middle of a two-legislative stage as a Member of Parliament and I wouldn't like to have this bitterness of today's sitting. Mrs. Espigares, I regretted it, and what I said to her was that I didn't understand what you were telling me, and that's why I was telling her that I wasn't understanding her. [[remorse of the voice]] If you let me finish, I'll explain it to you. 'Cause just because you've been with a person I've always been close to, he's come up a lot of times to the side of my desk, we've been on that couch a lot of times, having conversations [[remorse of the voice]] And, truth be told, I regretted what you said to me. This parliamentary subgroup has four Members, we can't split up, and sometimes I can go to things and sometimes I can't be there. Sometimes I'm in office, sometimes I'm in committees that I can and sometimes I'm in plenary. But in two legislatures I have never had a sanction like the Member. So, I'm offended by that. I, if I've offended you, withdraw you, because I think it's important that we don't lose our respect, and I hope that we continue with the legislatures in which we don't lose our respect. But I would also like you to withdraw it, because I only told him that I was surprised at you – you – because he was with one of the Members who, I insist, was more able to talk, who had this all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.93.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr. Carrizosa and then anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.94.0	Yes, President. For Mrs Madaula's allusions. Look, Mrs Madaula, you do not give us lessons of fascism, do not give them to us, because you boasted of having obstructed the fundamental right of demonstration of people who only asked for bilingualism in schools. And you, who were there avoiding that they could manifest in Sant Jaume Square, boasted of it. And fascism is who attacks people for their ideas. [[Widow's remorse.]] And fascism is also going to the headquarters...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.95.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.96.0	...of the political parties with a hammer, hooded, dressed in black and sign us the seats and break us the crystals under the signature of Arran and the applause of the CUP. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.97.0	Mrs. Spigares.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.98.0	Thank you, President. For allusions. Actually, huh? I think I'm a friendly person or at least I'm trying to be one, and that's why I recognize what he said, and I take it back and as – that's what I said – I think when someone, when a deputy isn't in the Chamber, it's because he's working outside. And so what I don't understand is that all the groups – all of them – and I include myself, we are constantly making references to whether the president is there, whether the counselors are there or not, or taking photos of one bench or the other empty. What I understand is that we all have a responsibility – all of us – you too, and I recognize it, and we have to work, and sometimes it's work here and sometimes it's work outside and that also has to be explained.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.99.0	Mrs. Madaula. [[Rialles.]] And we'll lock the back here, because we'll follow... I gave the word to Mrs. Espigares because she'd been greeted by Mrs. Levy and, in fair correspondence, I gave it to her. But no more, because we won't get into a new debate, Mrs. Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.100.0	For contradictions – for contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.101.0	Contradictions of what?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.102.0	What he said, before, with the demonstrations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.103.0	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.104.0	For what you said about the demonstration I attended.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.105.0	Well, say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.106.0	The demonstration I attended was not to deny freedom of expression or demonstration to anyone, but to defend freedom of expression. And the example is that we went with a book in our hands. If fascism is for books, it's his problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.107.0	Mr. Carrizosa, but..., the last – the last. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Carrizosa, come on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.108.0	Yes, for obvious contradictions. You prevented the authorized demonstration from reaching Sant Jaume Square. [[Widow's remorse.]] He therefore avoided the right to assembly, the right to demonstration and freedom of expression, Mrs Madaula. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.109.0	That's it, thank you, it's over. In any case, thank the syndic and his team for their work, the presentation of the report and today more than ever, in the name of the institution, many thanks for your pocket. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]] [[He asked the Government about the plan of government and the political culture]] [[300-00102/12]] We continue with the order of the day, which is the question to the Government about the plan of government and political culture, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP. To expose the inquiry, the honourable Member Maria Sirvent has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.110.0	"This government assumes the commitment to move forward in accordance with the self-determination reference of the first October. "Our responsibility will be ours alone. « We are lucky enough to represent the people of Catalonia. "This situation we are living in cannot be extended a day longer. « The Catalan people deserve more social justice, well-being, a redistribution of the most effective wealth and a public attention of the highest quality. These are the words of President Quim Torra's tenure speech. What a reverser looks like today, huh? How far from reality. And that is the government that has decided to abandon and kill the October 1 mandate to move on to manage the narrow margin between the State of autonomy and the intervention of the Spanish State. Based on the exercise of the right of self-determination in a magical transition, from restitution to constitution, reproducing the failed formula, the mantra of the "law to law and trusting in the superiority of Catalan legality in a dialog that does not exist with the Spanish State and with the emperor in international law blurs the essential fact that in any case mobilization and popular organization are the only lives left to the people when all others are denied. Mr Sánchez later said: "Catalunya will never be independent. And you don't say that because Mr. Sánchez sees the future, but because it's the same, he and all the monarchic elites are just like the will to form an independent republic can be a majority in Catalonia. He says so because he and all the representatives of these monarchic elites are denied and will always refuse to respect the will of the Catalans, whatever it is. We follow and follow the arms of resistance and disobedience, and it is that the path of disobedience is the consequence of the blockade on one side, the powerful, the formally constituted state, and its frontal opposition to the agreement that gives place to the exercise of self-determination. That's why we're talking about sobriety. Let us speak of sovereignty for a question of social justice and for pure and harsh pragmatism. Because having sovereignty means controlling strategic services, and that's not an option, it's a need. A need if what we want is more democracy, more ability to decide, more ability to decide on the part of people; if what we want is more justice, and therefore a greater redistribution of wealth to our country. And it's easy to see that while the goods and services that are needed for life are still in the hands of companies that see in them a succulent source of inputs, our lives will remain secret. Abertis, highways; Agbar, water; Buildings and Contracts Development, water, clean, waste; Natural Gas and Fenosa, basic sub-administrations; Cellnex, communications: all are companies that will take advantage of Rajoy's decree to leave Catalonia, lend themselves to a political operation designed and designed for the dome of the State against the workers of our country. These companies did not protest the massive repression against the people on October 1, but they did lend themselves to a state operation against the right to decide. If we want to build a fully democratic state where the working and popular classes have control of our lives, we must be able to legislate with full sovereignty, we must be able to legislate solely in favour of general interest, and that is impossible if part of the essential infrastructures of our country are to listen to other interests: the interests of private enterprises, the interests of political elites. But it has not changed anything: Continuism, Processism 2.0, Liberal Continuity and Progressive make-up in social matter, accompanied by rhetoric and republican symbolism in the mark discourse. As one philosophy of practice said: "History is repeated twice, first as tragedy and then as farce. This government processes and neither governs nor strives to camouflage its propensity to that symbolic. Taking the president's words, it's been a year: no more social justice, no more redistribution of wealth, no more public attention of more quality. The balance is very clear. Catalonia continues to captivate the path of shame: sixty daily noises and a public housing park that does not rise to 2_per_cent; the poor energy is a reality that causes our veins to pass heat in summer and cold in winter; hospital passes continue col·lapsing, and, meanwhile, the dismantling of public services is each time more exposed. The poor, and the poor wage earner, is the day-to-day life of thousands of people, especially women, to whom patriarchal capitalism condemns a life of misery. Meanwhile, what does this government do before a society that's absolutely broken up for the poor? Does it complete with its plan of government? Are you filling in on what you've compromised with people? Let's see: it committed itself to expanding the housing stock and ensuring access to basic sub-administrations. Not only has he not expropriated a single word from the Sareb, but he sends the police to accompany the judicial committees and the electrical companies to call their people at home and to carve out sub-administrations. It also committed itself to enhancing equal opportunities in the framework of inclusive education, but it continues to support private centres with the money of all, allow for hidden quotas and ensure the support of the school segregation process and its cruelest consequence, which is social segregation. It does not defend the public school, its prestige and its need, and from here we want to give thanks to FAPAC's companies to dignify the public school by doing what should have been done by this government: a campaign in favor of enrollment in the public school. He also committed, this government, to ensuring a system of health equity, but far from putting life at the center of the health system, he continues to bet to give centrality to the Siscat, a corrupt and client network. And it's how it can be that our family members, that our lives, that our friends have to make endless lists of hope and that the same Social Security, the same hospitals, send them to pay a private for the purpose of getting rid of these lists of hope. And it is that this government also committed itself to guaranteeing economic sovereignty, to presenting social assumptions, to betting on redistribution of wealth, and things. It's that he doesn't want to hear about public banking, he doesn't want to hear about disobeying the bank's debt – yes, those very banks to whom to save them from their harmful policies will be filled with public money that they will never return. Certainly, a rule of the Spanish Constitution that changed from one day to another, for a call from Mrs Merkel: how easy it is to change the Constitution if it is to satisfy the banks, how difficult if it is to respect the will of the Catalan people to decide. And that's why today we want to ask this government, the government of business independence, the government of the game of cadires, the government that is so little respected that it considers any electoral process more important than the commitments made with people that October 1 and that December 21st. Do you still remember them, Mrs. Artadi? Looks like it's not. For what has been done by this government is to dissolve the regional council without an audit, to store things under captives; to try that Mr. Ricard Calvo will not appear before this Parliament to give explanations; to divide the bodies of the corporation with PSC and with Ciutadans – or as at least to try it –, and they have also been effective in dividing themselves 523 under other bodies, councillors, executives of public sector entities, institutes, consortiums, councils, foundations... a total of more than 36 million euros a year with whom to play the game of the cadres. And it is that, despite the pensions and the disagreements, which are obvious and which we have seen in this very House, there are 13,800,600 euros for the Republican Left, 14,100,400 euros for Juntes per Catalunya, in remunerations of other functions and direction of entities of the public sector. We're talking about cash at 70,000 euros in middle wages. Do you know how much the average salary of most workers is? Twenty-four-five-five-five. And it's that the problem is not the political responsibilities that any government names, it's the boo who cares and the high politicization of the profile of the people who occupy them. The problem, Mrs. Artadi, is that this government, before a determined people, a worthy people, which calls on critics to decide everything, has decided to remain entangled in the opacity of the despatxos, in the distribution of quotas and power plots, leaving aside the reptes collectius, leaving behind the people who are mobilized every day, leaving behind all this for political opportunism, for electoral processes, and saying a lot about their political culture. We will continue to bet on the reptes col·lectius, we will continue to bet on our people. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.111.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Elsa Artadi, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.112.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Mrs Sirvent. It is true – it is true – that the Government, the same presidency of the Government of the Generality, arrived in extraordinary anomalous circumstances. I remember perfectly the elections of 21 December, some elections called for Mariano Rajoy, who decided to close this Parliament, who decided to close our institutions, because they were sure that they would arrive and win the elections. I remember perfectly the elections and the electoral campaign of 21st December, which in some way will continue to assemble – even though it is still in a more dramatic way – those we are living or those we will start living in two days' time, in a hurry, with exile, with reprisals. I also remember, perfectly, with sadness, the 30th generation when it was not able to bring forward the investiture of President Puigdemont, and it is obvious that at that time there was a great debate and it was a complicated decision – on the part, as at least, of our parliamentary group – as we proceed after these events. He gambled for the fork, then here for Jordi Sànchez's bet for the presidency of the Generality, and we found ourselves again, so obviously with a Spanish state that lets out people condemned, or accused, of terrorism but obviously the judge Llarena does not let out in Jordi Sànchez to come to make his investment debate, because he was still independent – not because of what he did, but because he was still independent. And tomorrow – tomorrow – will make a year of the investiture debate of Jordi Turull. We understood that at that time it was a way to plant face, it was a way to make a puls to the State, it was a way to invest it the day before you once declared before the judge Llarena, because we understood that at that time they could not do anything, and from the same Catalan institutions, therefore, we could do, in a strong way..., put the State against the ropes. Tomorrow it will be a year and sometimes we ask ourselves, and among us we have commented – for example, with Councillor Buch, that we are both very friends of Jordi Turull – what happened in this situation, if the Spanish Government has decided to undertake who was elected president at that time. You have decided that no, and I am not saying it as a toilet, but I am saying it as a finding that repression makes us all make complicated decisions, that repression, that we are all patenting it – and "everyone refers to us in a very broad sense: Members of this chamber, political representatives, citizens, public workers – makes us make decisions that are very complicated, because that is what repression is about. We chose this path – uncertain or we won't know it anymore – because we understood that it was necessary to be all-round, because we understood that it was necessary to take advantage of all the spaces, for the same reason that we also understood that we were going to help out Rajoy and we were going to try to dialogue with Pedro Sánchez, in the same way that we decided to continue participating in the Spanish elections. To follow it also in a different way – also in a different way –: the playing ground has changed, but all of us, or at least the political spaces that support the government that we represent, we have also changed. The fish was abandoned to the ground, the way it was done was abandoned, the way it was paid for in advance, the way it was given support for some threats, the way it was left where and what those people represented and what they were doing. You know, and we've said it, and we've explained it to everyone else, that we're still defenders of the dialogue, not for a matter of conviction, belief, just because we know – and we've seen it in all conflicts – that it all ends up going through a negotiation and ends up going through a dialogue. We know that, but the Spanish Government also knows that; the political parties know that, as much as I am wandering forward, I will now, yes, not now, the rapporteur and I am amazed. Because it is the same people that in a conflict, at that extremely more complex, more dramatic moment, as was the case with the terrorist band ETA, all – both PP and PSOE – decided to negotiate. Now, I repeat it too, everything has changed, because I think that like at least Pedro Sánchez, his team and surely the rest of the political parties have also understood that we are betting for the dialog, but not the dialog for anything: not the dialog to get a transfer of not-know-what or that there is a better funding to cultural institutions in Catalonia. There's no dialog if you can't talk about the right to self-determination, you don't feel there's a dialog if you can't talk about the line of repression, because that's actually what the political block is. And we understand that this generates debate all the way, also surely in your political space. We all have doubts as to how we should proceed, we all have doubts, and we also sometimes have to explain where we are going with the facts, or there have been debates. He passed us before the trial; before the prisoners left Catalonia and the Civil Guard transferred them to the trial, there were people who told us: "You don't have to let them out. Here we have to promote that people don't get out. And the same prisoners, in the foreground, and with all due respect and all our support, understood that what was needed was to accuse the State – to accuse the State. And that's done with a lot of pain, because some of them take them to jail. And there are and there are also repercussions and there are repercussions at international level, from institutions like the UN, entities– International Trial Watch, International Commission of Jurists – but also communication media that have never been too close to us, as would be the case with Le Monde, who criticize and see with concern this judgment. But we understood, at that time – and I repeat that it was a complex decision, with internal debate, with external debate, with controversy, with everything – that it was necessary to pull forward, that it was necessary to make government, that it was necessary to make the government because 155 was also passing the bill and because we understood that it was better than we were to govern than Mr. Mariano Rajoy. And it's true that in the repression it still costs a lot to explain, and today there was an editorial in a digital entitled "Farts," which criticizes us all: criticizes us all and many decisions. And I think we should all think about it, and maybe we should take advantage of it to give a momentum to make it more cohesive and more united. I'm not talking about electoral lists, but I'm talking about unity of action. Why did we pull forward? Because we have also seen the impact of the 155: 1,800_million euros in loss, blocking or incurring the Generality's assumptions; 130_million euros in direct loss in the Generality's assumptions; sectors..., the social spheres, the most vulnerable, are the ones that have had a major impact – we were reminded of the entities of the third sector only last week – and the paralysis of the legislative activity of this Parliament. Exceptionality, but also responsibility. And it's true – it's true – that we're also doing everything because we don't like the system we're in and why many things need to be changed. Six months ago, just six months ago, the plan of government was approved – a plan of government, obviously, from which we can not now balance as the institution, because we are in this electoral period, in which there is nothing to do – that had different programmatic axes. The first, which is where above all the honourable Member has been involved, and it was the first because we understand that it is the basis of everything, of a cohesive country, with rights, opportunities, and that these opportunities are for everyone. A plan of government that has so far developed with standards with law rank, set for law projects and twelve per law decrees, but also with eight preliminary memoranda of work that will continue to be carried forward, such as the democratic memory or the annulments of the Constitutional Court. National pacts that are drawn forward in search of a broad consensus, not only of the institutions, but also of entities, also of the sector to which they affect: the one of school segregation, the national of disability, the society of knowledge, the eradication of male violence, etc. And it's obvious, and that's why you also talked enough about this first question, the import of the school. The import of the school, the import of health and the import of housing as the first basis for bringing forward what should be equal opportunities, and an equal opportunity that is obviously not there at this time, and that there is a lack of social justice, and that either we attack on these three fronts or we will certainly not achieve it. In this course, and despite the presuppositional extension, we have six hundred new teachers, a call of 5.005 places of opponents, the majority for primary, but also for secondary and vocational training, a determined compromise with inclusive school, but also to regain the co-responsibility in the financing of the school Bressol, because we understand, and everyone knows, that the years from zero to three are also decisive in education. Twenty-five schools, school institutes. The anti-segregation pact is important because we need to redistribute students well, we need there to be real gratuity, we need public funding to be balanced according to the needs of the student, and because, in the words of Councillor Bargalló, families have right to choose which project they have, not to choose with whom to study their children. That's why we pull it forward, that's why the access decree has been changed to the schools. Waiting lists. It is obvious that there is a challenge to resolve with the waiting lists, and that is why, and yesterday, in an oral question, Mrs Vergés spoke about it. Accessibility and better management decree, a decree to address the vulnerability criteria actually because there is equal opportunity in access and that this is real. Primary care, with more than 100_million additional euros, and 250 us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.113.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.114.0	Yes, forgive me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.115.0	Thank you. It's the return now, again, for the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.116.0	Mrs Artadi, who walks forward: all anti-repressive solidarity, freedom for prisoners and political prisoners and return for exiles. But this repressive situation in no case can explain the defection of several councillors, and that today, therefore, follows the last question that can be made to you as the Presidency and Spokesman of the Government Councillor, and they can also explain that the person who sees you replacing you with various positions in opaque institutions of indirect election, who already carries thirteen years of politics and who has access to the mayor's office, at some point, with the favorable votes of the People's Party. Surely you say a lot about your political culture and your priorities. It says a lot, in any case, about the party-centric colonization of institutions, to confuse party and country. In this sense, we can talk about, for example, the modification of the Law of boxes ad hoc for Narcis Serra, of Santi Vila and of how the new law does not prevent only that it slows the rotating doors; we can also talk about the charge of Felipe Puig to Tram, of Jordi Portabella d'Esquerra to "La Caixa, of the five high direction of Ferrocarrils of the Generality of Catalonia that cover by what marks the law, or of how Boi Ruiz, for example, moved from the health care employer to councillor of Salut, and of the infinity of cases that affect all the parties of this chamber, all of them. Forgive us, and modestly, it doesn't affect us any of these cases. And I don't know if they remember a 2003 report prepared for Mr.Ridao, today's major reader, former deputy and former secretary general of the Republican Left, in which he defended that the legacy of twenty-three years of convergent governance is reduced to an excessive politics of administration and a Napoleonic structure with an institutional and centralized bureaucratic system. So, ladies and gentlemen, you haven't changed anything here. This Parliament and this Government are still a party co-locationr and a generator of easy owners, a generator of privileges. And look, Mrs Artadi, we know that we are at an exceptional moment, you have said it, and that is why we cannot do anything other than ask a government without instruments but also without ideas, a government without authority, which does not even manage, an opaque government that doesn't know where it is, or that may well know where it is but doesn't want to explain it. And it is that these institutions of salons, of red captives, of lights, of carved glass, continue to work in the service of the powerful, and form part of that which we have come to fight, of that which we have come to understand. We want to open doors and windows, and overflow those brands that condemn us. And look, Mrs. Artadi, we were listening to the PSC's inquiry yesterday. We don't really match things with the PSC, but you see it all, and we think your own voters see it too: you are not ruling, and you, no more than you, are not prioritising government action. One thing is to leave the government for differences, or because they want to leave political activity. The other is to leave the government to complete electoral lists in Barcelona or the Congress of Deputies. This is surreal, and it's a hard indicator, very hard to tell how far you don't believe your own government action. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government of the Generality, fellow Members of Parliament of Catalonia, we are aware of the moment when we find ourselves, between the repression of the Spanish State, the heavy attack on the sovereignty of this Parliament and its autonomy and the heavy threats to the entire structure of political, civil and social rights, conquered after so many years of popular struggle, and that is precisely why we hoped for more compromise, more courage and more determination. The desertion of members of the government is a sign more than a exhausted government. And, Mrs. Artadi, if you don't want to rule, maybe it's time you recognize that the legislature is exhausted. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.117.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's the Councilwoman's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.118.0	Well, it's obvious that Constable Erra and I are not political party members. Either way, let's leave the government with a lot of pain, we've both expressed it. We understood that it was time to do more politics than just the generality, we were working on the replenishments to keep working. I have no doubt of his support, of his solidarity with repression; you also suffered it, and your mayors also suffered, including the mayor of Berga, who was disqualified and forced to accept the disqualification. We're still working. That's where we talk before we live. Miri, the 2018 data, we were able to be in the government for half a year, 16,000 emergency aid, 73,000 payment aid to lodge with an import of 133_millions, 4,100 mediation actions to renegotiate debt or to obtain payment data, reallocation of 3,684 families. An increase of 176_% of the resources allocated to housing policies, avoiding between 2012 and 2018 up to 27,000 denunciations. What's there to do? It's obvious he's still working on it, and we saw it at the beginning of this week, with one of the most dramatic cases we've seen recently. But also this ultra-liberal government and bank friends and etcetera, it is also the same government that imposed a tax on the bank for empty floors and from which it was able to recover almost 50_million euros; 50_million euros that will be allocated to storm and retraction. This government took..., one of the first decisions it took was to allocate 250_million euros for the financing of construction and purchase of social housing; 110 for the acquisition to expand the offer into 1,800 housings, and 140 for the construction of a thousand new social housings. It is also this Government that has announced the extension of the minimum duration of contracts through the Civil Code and through the modifications that can be made from the Department of Justice, and it is also this Government that, two weeks ago, approved a decree of urgent measures to improve access to housing, because it is urgent, priority, to give an answer, must continue to give an immediate response to increase the public wealth of only to hold us the right of preferential acquisition, to continue working with the tempteig and retraction, that until now has allowed us the acquisition of two_ thousand habitats, to continue increasing the public park of habitats of logger, to increase the private habitats of public protection, that until now has allowed us the acquisition of two_ thousand habitats, to continue to increase the public park of habitats of preference, to increase the private habitats of perpetuations of public protection, and to continue to allow for the preservation of permanent habitats. It is also the Government that made a presupposition – which they did not want to negotiate – that incorporated an increase of expenditure of 1,715_million euros, of which 300 for guaranteed income from citizenship. A task that is taking place in the guaranteed income of citizenship in different axes: for a band, improve the information and increase the shields, so that it significantly increases the number of people who end up accessing it. Working also with the bulk of requests we found ourselves; when we arrived by June 2018 there were _thousand requests pending to value – divide_thousand. Now, everyone who's been within the term that sets the law. Are they still there? Obviously, every time they enter, but they are all within the term of the law that this Parliament marked. Working through the Commission of the Government of Guaranteed Income, which was able to set aside when we entered the Government, also to extend it to collectius: collection of young and adolescent migrants, nombroses families, women who suffer from male violence, people who do not read, and above all changing the way it is to be the suspension of the benefits of guaranteed income and that this can be temporary when there are short-term contracts, so as not to discourage access to work places that, in the end, is the way people should travel. Guaranteed income must be an aid to personal autonomy. On the subject of dependency, 27,000 new beneficiaries have been incorporated, the services have increased in the last two years, 3,500 places, 25_percent of economic performance. Home care services have doubled, all of which make the effort we pay 84_per_cent from the Generality of all dependent expenditure. They'll invest now 750,000 euros in a shoal to reduce the lists, because it's one of the places where there's more waiting list problems. The staff will increase in 2019 with a premise that we have extended, because it has been decided that it does not approve, both with dependent people and with people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.119.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the Archius System of Catalonia]] [[302-00073/12]] After the inquiry, let's go to the next item on the order of the day, which is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the Archius System of Catalonia, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group Unites per Avançar. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.120.0	With venom, President. Counselors, counselors, deputies and deputies, good morning. Talking about archives and document management is not just a technical issue of proper planning of the documentation that administrations generate from the principle of transparency, but it is also a question of a fundamental right of citizens: the right to information, access to documentation and to collective memory. And, in this sense, the Archivist and Documentary world of Catalonia asks us – I think it requires us and you have right to claim it – that we try to agree parliamentary groups and government, through the debate, the dialogue, the negotiation and the transaction to draw a path, a full road that from a global and cross-cutting vision proposes measures and tools to improve the system of archival and documentary management of our country, and today we have a golden opportunity to do so. We understand politics not only as the legitimate confrontation of ideas, but also as the ability to dialogue and agree with those who think differently. It is public and notorious that the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance We are critical, sometimes very critical, with many aspects of the government's cultural policy, beginning with the assumption of the Department of Culture. It is not a waste, we believe, that a country like ours, with its own language and first level cultural equipment, both in the national and international order, only aims at 0.7_per_cent of its presupposition to culture, when this should be 2_per_cent. And the presupposition wasn't born in 2019, nor did it, unfortunately, improve this situation. But there are nuclear elements of cultural policy that require an effort, that we make an effort to reach as much agreement as possible. One of them is the National Council of Culture and Arts. Let us hope that, in the next few days or weeks, we can resolve the renewal of its members, of the members of the plenary, and, from here on, modify the law, update it, the law that regulates it, to turn it into a key piece of the cultural policies of our home. Another issue on which it is essential, we believe, agree, or try at least, is what we are debating today, the system of archives and documentary management of Catalonia. In the interview, we asked the councillor for twelve themes, we explained twelve themes related to the archival and documentary system, which correspond to the twelve points of the motion, since the development of the Catalonia Archive System, the empowerment of the municipal archives, the reform and diversification of the district archives network, the paper of the Catalonia National Archives, the need for an organic structure of the Catalonia Archive System, beginning at the end, we believe, to give the vacant place of the general sub-direction, to move forward to the creation of the general direction in a more cross-section department, the need for an organic structure of the Catalonia Archive System, the impulsion of the National Council of Archives and the management of documents. In fact, in the background of our young lady, there are three essential elements that I want to highlight. In the first place, move from the concept of historical archive to the concept of integral document management. Secondly, to hear the local archives, is to say, all the archives of all the municipalities of Catalonia, as the basis of the system, as the basis of the pyramid of documentary management and of the Archius System of Catalonia. And, thirdly, the necessary cooperation of all administrations – Generality, deputies, county councils and municipalities – to make this possible. The young man went all this way, with critical hope and, if they want, also self-critical, but willing to share the full route that he commented on them before. We believe that we have done the work, honestly, and we believe that also rigorously, want to be useful and purposeful, come to propose from the Parliament to what we believe the government has not done in the matter of archives, which it has been governing. We hope that the parliamentary groups will tell you theirs and finally give the view to this full road ambition. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.121.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word, to defend the papers presented, in the first place and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Héctor Amello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.122.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Councillors, in Citizens, we bet on the modernization of the Spanish institutions, and that also implies this Parliament of Catalonia and, of course, the rest of the Autonomous Administration of our community. The regulatory and institutional framework for document file management and control of public information cannot be excluded from this modernization process. Undoubtedly, the Archives System of Catalonia must be an integrated and coordinated system of documentary management centres. The main objective of the archival policy is to improve the efficiency of the management of documents and archival funds, both historical and the enormous amount of documentation currently produced in the Autonomous Administration and also in the local area. The archives policy must ensure access, it must ensure security, availability, confidentiality and also the preservation of documentation, but it must also comply with the rights and obligations arising from the rules on transparency and access to public information and good governance. And, speaking of transparency, public information and good governance, I would like to mention one issue, because it was often a mess, because it was often a mess, in the election of the members of the Committee on Guarantees of Access to Public Information – I suppose they remember? – this commission where members were to be legal specialists in public law and technical in the field of archives and documentary management, of recognized prestige, and where they were to have more than ten years of experience. And it is that the elected candidates manifested a lack of knowledge and a lack of professional experience in the field of archives and documentary management. I imagine you remember, because I often disregard the Transparency Act. In the Archival System of Catalonia, the municipal archives play a very important role, not only those of the municipalities of more than ten thousand inhabitants, as the Law of Archives and Documentary Management marks, but those of all the municipalities of Catalonia. And it is essential to provide resources and tools, both material and human, to support the archival services, their management, their maintenance, their coordination and their cooperation. But, look, I won't have time in these five_minutes to deal in depth with a subject as complex as the Archives System of Catalonia or be able to comment on all the points of this motion, but I do want to stress some points that we find interesting. The reality is that much of the Archives and Document Management Act is undeployed and barely complies with the regulations derived from it: the census of archives is unfinished; the record and map of archives in Catalonia is far from complete; there is a need to bet decisively on the empowerment, coordination and cooperation of municipal archives; the National Council for Archives and Document Management or the National Commission for Access, Evaluation and Document Selection are not consolidated, and there is much, as I said, to achieve excellence in transparency, access to information and good governance. Given this disturbing picture, we are not surprised that we have to come here today to discuss a motion to urge the Government to deploy a law and to provide material and human resources for its implementation. And we are not surprised because the political life of this separatist government is low in executive and legislative terms. The only priority that separatist governments, this and the former, have had is to use all their energies in: liquidated democracy, skipped the Constitution, fractured society, kidnapped Parliament, seeking both the confrontation between Catalans and a frontal clash with the rest of Spain. Look, regarding other points of the motion, I would also like to talk to you about the Aragon Crown Archive. The Archivo de la Corona de Aragon belongs to the Kingdom of Spain and is the historical heritage of all Spaniards. The archive must be guarded by the Government of Spain, which must preserve it and ensure its complete integrity. The Archives of the Crown of Aragon is one of the oldest archival institutions in Europe and is one of the most important documentary funds that exist on our continent. The purpose of the Archivo de la Corona de Aragón is to guard, conserve, organize and disseminate the documentation that has been accumulating for seven centuries. Few files have so many materials and so much historical value to analyze. The archive is currently managed professionally and with historical rigor. From Citizens, we will not allow the Archivo de la Corona de Aragón to re-entice attempts by nationalist parties to rewrite history at their own will in a revisionist exercise always at the service of their particular ideological interests and political intoxication. And, by the way, when you see Mr. Torra, I would like you to be told or told that your articles of xenophobic content have no place in any archive, just in that of shame, and the Koiné manifesto, either. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.123.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Civict has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.124.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselor and advisor, who, by the way, will find us visiting an archive, the Poblet Archive, by chance. « Are you a member of Ómnium and ANC? So, in my particular case, yes. But today we won't talk about the Catalan National Assembly, but we'll talk about the National Archives of Catalonia, we'll talk about the different local and regional archives, and that, at the top and bottom, together with the museums, represent what we are, it's our memory of what we are, and depending on how we treat them, they also tell us what we are, the same way you tell us how we treat nature, how we treat animals. And all the archives are heritage because they are. And that's why I want to thank Congressman Bruguera, so that he has put forward this proposal, also as he has put it, because I think he has spoken and touched almost all the issues, or that we would complement his intervention; therefore, many thanks, not only for this, but also for the opportunity to deal, together with Congressman Ten, with Juntes for Catalonia. It's all heritage, you know, it's part of our memory. I do not know if in the District Archives of Solsones we will find a lost codex of Leonardo Da Vinci or, in the District Archives of Montsia, we will find some codex still to be found, but in the District Archives of Segrià we will surely find, therefore, the magazine Tots, of the Episcopal Colleges of Lleida, or the magazine El Francolí, in the District Archives of the Conca de Barberà. The archives, despite what is said, must not be space to store papers, but must be open to the citizenry and must not be gloomy, modern spaces and not full of naphthaline, preservation and dissemination spaces. And those of us who are users of archives have been able to see, at the time of making donations, at the time of consultation, as they have been modernizing themselves and digitizing themselves, despite the unthankful, because we know that everything that ends up in "nature, agriculture and culture"..., so we already know the respective advisers and advisors who are supposedly underdoed. The archives are memory spaces, and I want to explain some cases. In the Police Archives of Guatemala, in which Catalan cooperation has helped enough, they have been razed..., and, thanks to this, despite the fact that the police did not remember that they had, they allowed us to identify botxins and above all to recover the memory of victims who during the eighty years lost their lives in this Central American country, in which thousands of people drew in the eighty years, under the dictatorship of Ríos Montt, suffered persecution, torture and disappearance; the archives of the Stasi, the German Democratic Republic, which, as you know, my country was spying on my country, like the film The life of others, which I do not know in German, or the archives that were also used to remove the subject from the Church. But there hasn't always been a lot of luck finding these files. We have a person, who is still among us, who is said Rodolfo Martín Villa, who was a minister of Francoist governance, and also lasts the Transition, who was responsible for eliminating the files of the movement, who forced the assemblies to delete the files of the Falangist militants and who on 19th of September of 77 eliminated the political files developed for the DERD – the State Delegation for Document Recovery – who was responsible for making them political files to justify the police persecutions – I say this because I do not know if these sounds now, by chance, that we have one thing to the Supreme Court televised day by day – and that says thus: "His task, that it was no other than the appropriation, custody and classification of all kinds of documentation coming from archives of public administrations, entities and hostile people who are subject to the national movement and who are subject to the national movement and to the transfer of information. All these documents..., much of these of the DERD, were what was known as the "Salamanca archives" which Josep Cruanyes, as you know, also studied. The July of the year 39 left, after 1,690 official registers, more than one hundred and sixty-tones of documents from many citizens and one hundred and twenty joints, some of these elements to the motion of the deputy Bruguera, in this case, that they do. Many of these documents arrived in Salamanca, but many others, no; many were cremated. As you know, the library of Pompeu Fabra, known as a member of a CDR and a violent squamous and commando, was cremated. Many other documents were made paper paste. And so they almost took the 90_per_cent off the 90_per_cent off of all this documentation. And, logically, the object of this documentation was not to keep it, to classify it and to make available to the investigators the documentary background, but to make some files, of which up to 3_million, 3_million of police files. We are remembering, we must age for the maintenance of its future and its accessibility, and, therefore, it is very important that, from all sides, we remain conscious of our past, because we are told where we are, wherever we go, but also of the present heritage. And so, now that it's gonna be a year that we have a lot of people in prison, I have no doubt that the drawings of thousands of cards that have been received by our prisoners and our political press will become part of the archives, as well as, no doubt, this support samareta to the Lower Pain, which will become part of the District Archives of the Lower Empordà. And, say that, we'll give you support, at different points...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.125.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.126.0	...the ones we haven't been able to deal with. And forward with the support of the archive. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.127.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr. Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.128.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselor... Constellera Borràs, from this first bench, we will find ourselves missing her smile. I make my own the words that yesterday in Lluís Font deia, speaking of you, as the councilwoman builder of culture and knowledge with battle for language and convinced that culture must make us more free and freer. Say that, my thanks. And he also wanted to give thanks, in another way, to Congressman Rafel Bruguera, for his cordiality, his willingness to reach agreement on this motion and his proactive attitude so as to follow this subsequent motion on the Archius System of Catalonia. Joan Boades, municipal archive in Girona, says that, contrived to what people are thinking, talking about arxius is talking about compromises for the future. A little in line with this, this young man is also in a compromise for the future, for the future of the world of the archives, of the archives and of the Archivist System of Catalonia. In this young man is a reference..., a long man, a man in whom we have presented, together with the Republican Group, a man who speaks, as it could not otherwise be, of the Archius System of Catalonia, of the network of district archives, of the municipal archives, of the tip of the pyramid of this Catalan archivist world, which is the National Archius of Catalonia, of other archives, of the cents, of the map, etcetera. We have worked on this young man..., I also appreciate, from the department, the work to adjust; to adjust as you already know, at times, therefore, points, words, additions, etc. We wanted to incorporate, as it could not be otherwise, the work already being done by the Department of Culture, which is the Pla d'arxius and managed documentary 2019-2020. The Pla d'arxius and documentary management is the central performance of the legislature in the matter of arxius and the orderly response that since the Department of Culture is to give to a complex sector and in the process accentuated of change; when I also take advantage to emphasize the quantity of very good professionals – some of them today – of archivists and documentalists in the sector. Therefore, many points of this young man are already reflected in the Pla d'arxius. The Pla d'arxius and documentary management already talks about reviewing the policies of the Government of the Generality; it talks about developing a four-year strategic plan; it talks about knowing the environment, thinking and sharing a view of the archives; it talks about reviewing, completing and updating the Arxius System in Catalonia from its valuation and diagnosis. Therefore, many of the things, so, have coincided with the Pla d'arxius from time to time, and this has helped, therefore, that it was a working young man and that seems to me that up to a good port, except in a couple of points, that I wanted to take advantage to emphasize. Let us speak here, precisely, of the « papers of Salamanca, of the additional provision of Tretzena, that the Statute..., and in this motion of the « papers of Salamanca, at the request of the Socialist Group we incorporated the literality of everything. But the feeling of this whole literality could not be incorporated, I don't know why, I don't know for what contradictions, in the totality of this point today, point 12.c. We therefore lack the integration of the proper foundations into the Archius System of Catalonia. And that's what we're missing and we want to put it in evidence now. Just as a point of addition has not been accepted in which we introduce the Administration of the State that has technical means and infrastructures that facilitate the public consultation of the documentary foundations of the Barcelona Civil Government, these documentary foundations that are in a mobile park of ownership of the State, with difficulty of consultation and difficulties of conservation, without optional. And it seemed to us that it was also a good time, in line with this "papers of Salamanca", so to include it here and to continue working, as I already mentioned the motion to which I refer: "The Parliament urges the Government to continue working because the additional provision tretzena..., etc. is effective. I mean, in that yes and in that not in these two aspects. But we see the gout more than half full, in line with the department's policy for what it does to the rest of the young lady's points. All right, all right, Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.129.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is now the turn of the Member of Parliament, Mrs Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.130.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillor... As the other day said, during the interpellation, the partner of the PSC, the archives are little known and little used by the citizenry, compared to libraries or museums. And even though documentary heritage has been associated with the past, the reality is that they are not only historical archives, but documentation that is generated day by day. Public access to them therefore continues to be a premise of the rule of law and democratic strengthening. The archives are not only vital, but necessary, because they are the testimony of the actions of a person, organization or society, even more so when it comes to a public unit or certain government management. On 10 November 2011, UNESCO developed the Universal Declaration on Archives to improve the understanding and knowledge of archives between the general public and those who make decisions or generate them; it recognizes archives as experience and emphasizes the key role of archives in ensuring administrative transparency and democratic accountability. Therefore, from Catalunya in Comú Puem, we agree with the concern for the management of archives and the transparency of document management. We are also concerned that the Government has not deployed everything necessary to implement the Archives and Document Management Act to comply with its provisions or that the Archives System of Catalonia has not been structured, that the archival census has not been completed and that no progress has been made in creating the archival register or the documentary heritage census. We are concerned that the Government has not invested in the drive and innovation in document management, nor has it made the file map that marks the law or the archival network. We are also concerned that there is a lack of dialogue with professionals in the sector. In the past Plenary in the councillor's response to the inquiry told us that it was what she planned to do, but it would have been good that something had been done before she left, at least that which was commanded by the law. And it's curious because during her first appearance, counselor, she promised a cultural card, and she did nothing about it; she talked about moving forward on the 2020 reading plan, and neither did she; she talked about a strategic plan of monuments and sites, and neither did she. And he was able to talk about the application of the statue of the artist thanks to the existence of the United Parliamentary Group Podemos - In Comú Podemos in the Congress of Deputies. And you were also speaking in that speech about the heritage law that you have not done anything about, much less about the revision of the Archive System that you also promised. The balance of inaction on these issues and, in particular, in this case, the Archives of Catalonia is another sign of disgovernment and is another sign of the inaction of this Government. The provisions of this motion focus on urging the Government, the Government, to comply with Act 10 of 2001, which continues to be a matter of concern, as it shows the Government's negligence to comply with its legal obligations to the extent that we in this Parliament are obliged to submit motions for compliance. The same is true of Law 19 of 2014, on transparency, access to information and good governance. On the other hand, this motion proposes measures that have already been the subject of other motions in this Parliament, so it is simply a matter of raining on wet to try to see if this Government is ever given to comply with its obligations and begin to govern. And just as we agree on the need to deploy the Archiving and Document Management Act, we agree on each of the points of this motion, such as the need for the Government to mark itself as an outstanding task the strengthening of the organizational structure of the Archiving System as well as the deployment of policies of cooperation with and support to municipalities to ensure service, as well as supporting the network of regional archives to design a strategy for consulting, supporting and providing services to small municipalities in archival matters, among others. We shall vote in favour of the motion. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.131.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed is the now return of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.132.0	Thank you, President. I'll talk to him from here, very briefly. With the different interventions made by the parliamentary groups, we are in favour of this. As we also agree on a good part of the motion presented by the Socialist Party. Simply add a concrete and clear thank you to the entire team of documentation professionals, to the archives that are the guarantors of this preservation of memory, as has been said, of this preservation of history. And I simply take advantage of the word, so as not to devote more time to it, but to ask for the separate vote of the point 12.d of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.133.0	All right. Thank you, Congresswoman; it's over. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, has the word now Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.134.0	Yes, thank you very much, President. Simply take advantage also of this intervention to position the vote and ask for separate vote in points 5, in its encapsulation, 5a, and after 12.c, d e e. And to point out that in these points it will be abstaining, that is to say where we understand that the claim can be fair – and we don't doubt it – but we have always defended that in these questions it must be based on the principle of reciprocity. That is to say, here in Catalonia we claim some things that we then deny to other Spanish communities when things affect us. And we can't think that in this life we only have our rights in condition of Catalans... that the rest of them don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.135.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now to position himself on the items is the return of Congressman Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.136.0	Thank you, President. Well, we came to an agreement in one way or another in seven of the papers that had been presented by Esquerra Republicana and Juntes for Catalonia. And, therefore, I want to thank, therefore, the deputy Ten and Civic also for the reciprocity and the good understanding. And for what he does to the four issues of City, so, we also traded one, in two it was not possible and in a third we could say that there was an unfortunate agreement that the transaction was made with the groups that support the government. I'd like to finish, Counselor, [[remorse of the voice]] to remember a few words of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.137.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.138.0	...that many years ago I felt José María Mendiluce. I don't know if they're his, but anyway, I've been left like theirs. He said: "Politics is not the art of the possible but politics is the art of doing what is necessary. I think we've done politics today. I believe that today we have tried to make a need possible, in this concrete case for what it does to the service of the Archius and documentary management system of Catalonia. He asked him to advise that Madrid also does politics, politics, politics, and that, therefore, it helps to make what is necessary possible. And what is needed is to solve a very difficult political problem that we have in this country and that we can only do through the dialogue between those who think differently. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.139.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. A separate vote has been requested on points 5, the encapsulation, and 5a, 12.c, 12.d and 12.e. Any more petitions? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All of these separately, yes. Don't you? [[Pause.]] Okay. [[Long break.]] We vote, therefore, first, point 5, the head of point 5. Let's vote point five. The vote begins. The heading of item 5 was approved by 86 votes in favour, against and 39 abstentions. Let's just move on to vote 5th. The vote begins. Point 5a was adopted by 86 votes to 39. Let's vote now on point 12.c. The vote begins – 12.c. Point 12.c was approved by 23 votes to 101. Let's go now and vote on point 12.d. The vote begins. Point 12.d was approved by 122 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the 12th. The vote begins. Point 12.e was approved by 82 votes to 39, with 3 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion is unanimously approved, i.e. 125 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] We suspend the session until two-quarters of the late four. Thank you. [[The session is suspended at three-quarters of two-half and two-minutes and is resumed at two-quarters of four-quarters of the late and seven-minutes. He chairs the Speaker of Parliament, accompanied by first and second vice-presidents and secretaries first, second and third. Attend the table the major and the late Esther Andreu and Fornos.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.140.0	[[Motion following the Government's inquiry into industrial policy]] [[302-00074/12]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.328.0	Good afternoon, counselor, deputies and deputies. Well, then, the Socialist Group and Units for Progress presents the motion following the inquiry that we wanted to make on industrial policy. It is true that the industrial sector is very broad and, therefore, it is difficult for a young person to fit everything that we, therefore, would like to incorporate and deal with, but we wanted to focus on some aspects of the industry. You know that it is a strategic sector for the country – we ask that we see it this way– ; it is a sector that generates high quality, well-paid, stable jobs; it is one of the sectors that invests the most in innovation, that exports the most, more than 30_percent of the total of our economy. Therefore, it is a very solid and very structural sector. It is true that every time industry earns more than GDP, and also in international markets. And that's probably why, because he saw a solid situation, it's time to come up and face the challenges of the future that the industry has to face, at these times, so, somehow, to face this fourth industrial revolution, which has to do with artificial intelligence, which has to do with digitalization, with the circular economy, with those elements that will be very important to face, so the future of the economy, right? We need to develop an industrial sector with intelligent factories, using digital technologies, robots, artificial intelligence, transforming from the beginning to the end of this production process and, above all, making use of net energies, which has wanted to be a subject that we are dealing with here, which, as you know, is sensitive to our group. Before I go on, I want to thank the work that the parliamentary groups have done, because most of them – the commons, Ciutadans, Esquerra and Juntes for Catalonia – have made presentations to us. I think we've been able to do a job among all of them, because many of these are literally incorporated into it or through transactions. And I think with participation, right? And the collaboration of each of you, so I think the youth is better, huh? And it's more complete. And, therefore, I want to thank them for this pocket. The young man is divided, say, into four parts. The first is the National Pact for Industry. This pact was a much sought-after pact for our group, also for others in previous legislatures. Finally, it was pushed from Parliament and it was pushed forward by the government. But we believe that there is little transparency in this pact, because we do not know well what resources are allocated to each action, what is the Government's value... In fact, we were going to ask for the month of July, which made one year of the signature of the pact, a balance on the part of the Directorate-General, and today, March, we have not rejected or seen this Director-General at a Commission of Enterprise. And, therefore, the first block of proposals are linked to this..., to make an assessment of the pact on behalf of the council and to guarantee the commitments that the pact makes to resources and actions for 2019 and 2020, which is the year that this pact ends. We also talk about energy, which is very important to us. The energy costs for businesses are high, and reducing them and using net energies can improve our competitiveness. And, therefore, it is important that some of the government is setting the conditions because this is possible. I have to say that the Observatory of Renewable Energy informed a few months ago that 2007 was a lost year in Catalonia, because we did not pose, we did not pull public policies that favor these renewable energies. And so, it's not that we're stuck, it's that we're going back, because other countries and other regions of the State have passed us in a barbaric way forward on these issues. Here we propose energy efficiency plans for buildings, industry and mobility. And in this sense, therefore, it seems to us that it is important that we move forward in this line. Also a law of energy transition, make the law of energy transition in the next year. I would like to say that we are the only country in Western Europe that does not have an energy law, that does not have an energy transition law, and therefore it would be worth it if Catalonia, that normally, therefore, we are so new, cosmopolitan, modern and innovative, also in this subject we were and take advantage of the opportunities that it gives us. Accompanying this law of energy transition that we have granted to the government that is done in a year, we also ask for a plan for the territories that have nuclear power. It is true that they are not locked up until a few years ago, but we could already be working on a plan to see how we reconsider or restructure the energy generated by nuclear power, to the benefit of the economic development of these territories. There's a third apartment, which is the car. We believe that at this point it is very important that the car faces the challenges it has for what it does, so above all energy. And, therefore, we ask that you make a plan for the automotive sector in an integral way in your own systems. And the last block is that of artificial intelligence, which we also believe the government has a working group, but it has not advanced any further, and we ask that in six months we present a plan that advances in public policies that favor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.141.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.142.0	... artificial intelligence in companies. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.143.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, to defend the items has the word of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.144.0	Industrial policy across the country is a strategic policy, it determines its ability to generate welfare, and today it also determines its role in Europe. Catalonia, from the Transition, has lost a third of its workers to the industry; by the 1980s, the workers of the industry represented 40_percent of the Catalan labor force and today they are just over 18_percent. And this process has been a long process, with different stages. The first, the policies of conversion, the Spain of Solchaga, that while dismantling the product fabric of the country, bad public enterprises and put to diet the state of welfare, said that Spain was the country where it was easier to become rich. And there died the Social-Democratic project of building a welfare state on a strong product fabric, and there began the stage of deregulation and social deprivation in the Spanish State. And a second stage, that of Aznar and that of Rodrigo Rato, the stage of privatizations, which gave the skeleton to its industrial fabric to be allied with the builders of the country; the stage of the Law of the soil and of the great public works. The corrupt Spain, the Spanish that is pleased because ACS was the first builder to hold a contract to Iraq after the massacre. And so far here; from the real estate and de-industrialization of Spain to us in a subsidiary service economy of northern Europe, and a state unable to push a new product project and an energetic model of the future. And today, which is planning a new crisis on Europe, the first thing I can say is that today we are more weak than ever before to face our future. And that means that we need a bet to strengthen the welfare, to strengthen our product fabric and to bet clearly and decisively on the energy transition in our country. We must stop holding Catalonia's popular holiday program as the presidential agenda and take the stand to build a country agenda. And we believe that this country agenda has four elements that are key and that are strategic for Catalonia. The first, some expansius assumptions. Without expansionary assumptions we continue to offend the welfare of Catalonia. I'll read two news reports, the two of them from this week. The first: « The Catalan economy grows by 2.8_per_cent in 2018. The tweet yesterday, proud, the councillor Aragonès, the vice president of Catalonia. The second, also from this week: "The poor are making themselves worse and taking in 24 per cent of Catalan families. And he says, this news: "The situation requires more reversal than before the crisis, but today it has not recovered even half of what it was detailed. First strategic goal for Catalonia: to stop lying about the assumptions and to deploy a plan of welfare. According to the objective: to assess the National Pact for Industry and to ensure that the presuppositionary commitments on the table are fulfilled. Third objective: either we bet to be an economy of services or we bet to be an economy of high added value. And here we have to make an acclaim: an economy of high added value is not an economy of services that organizes fire and congresses on technology. It's not the same, even though it looks like photos, and it's true that we don't even get to half the European targets in search and development, and that we're backwards: we've lost a 13_percent search and development in the last two years. In the two years of detail, in two years of austerity, we have gone from comparing ourselves with Germany and France in innovation, to being on the European periphery. We're going back. I, the fourth objective: to make a country bet for the energy transition and the compliment of the National Pact for the energy transition. So far, in Catalonia, it is a shame: we will not complete the European targets of 2020 in renewable energies, a community that has pioneered the installation of renewable energies and that bears years, practically, in white, do not complete its objectives and elongating us from Europe, and already warn us that we will not complete the targets of 2030. We will vote in favour of this motion, but we ask the Government to take on its objectives with Catalonia, and to take on the mandates of this Parliament. Be late. We go late in the industrial pact, we go late in the knowledge pact and we go late in the national pact for energy transition, and we go late in the assumptions, but it's better to assume it and get to work than to condemn Catalonia to lose two years more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.145.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mrs Mari Luz Guilarte is now quoted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.146.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, I want to start by saying that the industry in Catalonia is still very strong because it has been able to make changes in its business and production models, in order to meet to a large extent the current challenges, but, as the Pact for Industry itself says, it has been losing weight since 2000. And it is that in the last fifteen years no Government, including you Socialists, has made real industrial policies, and so does the industry itself. But the question is: is the Pact for Industry serving to reverse this situation? Is it helping to boost industrial development in Catalonia? Well, the answer is no. Starting with the commitment to planned investments, the 1.844_million budget package was set up until 2020, and is not being implemented. In the 2017 budget and in the Government's publication for 2019, investment in programmes that have an impact on the improvement of industry is less than €1,000_million, half as much as the 1,844 of the pact. So the official figures show us that their pacts, their tables, their councils, and the 'work of the councillor,' are pure pantomime. If only half of the resources are devoted, while at the same time they are committed to multiplying the situation of uncertainty and political instability, which has already expelled almost six_ thousand companies, it is no wonder that in the end this will affect the Catalan industry, no matter how much it does the impossible to grow, in the face of its irresponsibility. In addition, Catalonia continues to fall in competitiveness and innovation rankings in relation to other regions of Europe. Look, according to the European Commission's latest competitiveness and innovation reports, Catalonia lost eleven jobs, remaining in 153, and we have moved to being in 2009 from regions with high innovation, to being considered a region of moderate innovation, in 2017. But do you really think that by assigning a 0.08_per_cent of the total budget of the Generalitat you can attribute any merit? Separatism and populism harm foreign investment and employment. With official data from the Ministry of Industry, we see that only in the last two years has foreign investment in Madrid been eleven times higher than in Catalonia, and that since 2012 Madrid has received 79,000_million_euros – which are said to be soon – in foreign investment more than Catalonia. Also from 2012 to 2016, the rate of employment growth by impact on foreign investment in the Community of Madrid is higher than Catalonia in 3,6_per_cent, also knowing that these investments in Catalonia are mainly concentrated in Barcelona and Tarragona, which barely reach the rest of the territory. But the confidence of investors, entrepreneurs and the industrial fabric is also put at risk thanks to the subordinates of separatism, who rule in the city of Barcelona, and who dare to say that the main industry that dynamizes and generates wealth is a plague of locusts. Man, to you, who in four years have mined trade, mined the mobility industry, preached tourismophobia and sold almost the most expensive electricity on the market. Renewables also retreat in Catalonia, although some are willing to invest in this type of energy, but what they denounce is that regulations at both the municipal and the autonomous level block and prevent the development and attraction of these investments. So here it takes up to seven years to complete the procedures to be able to install a renewable, while in the rest of Spain it is a maximum of two to three years. Therefore, the Generalitat makes mere propaganda and, nor will it fulfill the 32_percent of renewables established by the European Union by 2030, and let us no longer speak of 50_per_percent of our own Climate Change Law; if we are at 8_per_percent, as the other day they recognized from the Government itself. In terms of mobility, the Recharge Infrastructure Plan for the electric vehicle in Catalonia, the PIrvEC, from 2016 to 2019 has hardly started to be implemented. Nor are there any subsidies or incentives for the purchase of electric vehicles today. Where, then, is your commitment to sustainable mobility? So as much as you invoke St. Financial Times, because it rewards you at one point in your investment attraction strategy, I recommend that you not only buy it and read it on the day your ad comes out; read it also when this warning of the danger that separatism and populism pose to the sustainability of the Catalan industry and economy, if you continue to threaten it from your incompetence and the eternal process. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.147.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Congresswoman Eva Baró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.148.0	All right, thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Councillor, Members, Members, Catalan society, this fantastic barrage of origins, cultures, languages and diverse experiences that are mutually enriching, so it is a company with entrepreneurial character, with experience and with entrepreneurial vocation in the most essential sense of the term, that person who has initiative, who has the courage to undertake, for long with great activity those enterprises especially difficult and especially risky. Maybe because as the country, so, we've never given ourselves anything, maybe because we've always had a lot of trouble, maybe because we've had to work very hard, maybe because all the folds we've had before that came from the fight, from a lot of different places with the chance to work, even though it was very hard, to have the chance, therefore, to have a better life project for them and for their children; maybe for a lot of things, the fact is that everything folds up for a very determined character, a entrepreneurial character, right? A few figures, coming from a wide variety of sources, from the European Patent Office, the Idecat, the CDTI, of the annual economic accounts of Catalonia of 2018, which were published yesterday itself, therefore, allow us to calibrate the magnitude and quality and projection of our Catalan industrial sector. There are only three things to point out: Catalan exports at a high technological level are growing by 9_per_cent and remembering; Catalonia is leading European patent applications to the State, with practically 40_per_cent of the total, and, during 2017, the momentum of industry has spilled the rest of the sectors, with increases of 5_per_cent in 2016 and 4.9 in 2017, including over the same growth of the economy. So we have a good industrial fabric. Probably, in part, thanks to the fact that the 2008 crisis forced us to reinvent ourselves and we did not come out with an economic model based on the external sector and on a highly diversified, innovative industry, with an important weight of food, chemical, pharmaceutical, based on a much more sustainable growth model and able to stretch the economy. But precisely because this is a good industrial model, they call active public policies to preserve it and to consolidate it. And, in this sense, it is obvious that the Government of the Generality has a great responsibility, in large part because, more than that, we have before us major challenges. We share the feeling that somehow motivated this young man, and we will vote in favour practically of all the points of the young man. For what he does to the National Pact for Industry, it seems to us that it is a key tool. As it is assessed, it is necessary to carry out a comprehensive follow-up and to have as many resources as necessary. That is so, preserving at all times the model of the national pact as it was conceived and agreed on by all the driving agents, under the governance of the Catalan Council of the Enterprise. We will also support the Catalan strategy for artificial intelligence and all the points relating to the automotive sector, which is a sector that can modernise, ensure its digitalisation, the corresponding energy transition and, therefore, ensure that, up to..., it is a sustainable model open to the world. As it cannot be otherwise, it is necessary to promote non-polluting vehicles and to preach with the example of public administration at the time of using a certain type of vehicle and not others. And with all this we arrive at the energy chapter, the most transcendental, which we subscribe to practically its totality. As long as we're laying our batteries, it's better said. Here, it is true, we have to put even more batteries, but also especially there, to the Kingdom of Spain, because at the end and at the end it is there where we have the skills on nuclear, and that is where we have the paella for the manac for what it does to the nuclear shutdown calendar. Deures, here, there is: it is necessary to reduce energy consumption and for this reason call efficiency strategies that allow to reach this consensus of 32.5_percent of the consumption year 2030. And now there is a firm, unequivocal, unequivocal compromise in favour of renewable energies, so that the Catalan combination reaches this 100_per_cent so desired the year 2050. We understand and realize that all these public policies are complicated to implement, in time, demand consistency, demand tenacity, demand great complicity also with the private sector, but it seems to us that it is one of the best, not to mention the best reversal of the future and the best that we can leave to future generations and to our children and to our daughters. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.149.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.150.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. I would like to apologize for the presence of Constellera Chacón, who is unable to be there today for calendar motius. Thank you, counselor, for your stay, because some fears also have much to see, in this young man, with fears of territory and sustainability. So I also appreciate your presence. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, say that the economic crisis that has affected these past few years has made it very clear that it is the industrial economies that have shown the strongest strength before the recession, rather than others based on other types of activity. See if not the case of Germany, with which we often compare in many aspects of industrial policy. Many economists and also many institutions justify it, as has been said, for the subject of innovation and research, which is very important in this industrial sector and generates many technological advances; also for the balance that the activity of the secondary sector has in trade balances – there has also been talk, above all, of what it represents at the level of exports, about a 50_percent, but in some areas, such as the chemical industry in Tarragona, there are companies that come to an 80 and 85_percent, their exports – and, obviously, a very remarkable fact is that this industrial sector generates highly stable and well-remunerated qualified jobs. Look, the theme of the '80s came out here. Probably the pes of the industrial sector was above 28_per_cent, as Mr Lucas Ferro said, the deputy Ferro, but surely it was another model. And this crisis has affected a lot of countries, and even at home we have dropped to a minimum of 19_per_cent. But now, and with the words of economist Oriol Amat, Catalonia is one of the few regions that complement the European Union's goal of making industry account for 20_percent of GDP. Currently in Catalonia it is 22.1_per_cent, and in the Spanish State it is still over 17_per_cent. Without doubt, the National Pact for Industry was an uncertainty. I did not have the pleasure of being able to participate, but I understand that it was a work that was also widely agreed, derived from a resolution of the Parliament, the 251 of the last legislature, with the impetus of the Government but also with the consent of economic and social agents. It set a reference_mark, but it also generates tools for planning. Therefore, at this point I think we are very much in agreement with the motion of the motion. And I also appreciate, Mrs. Romero, the whole negotiation and the work we've done together. Sometime we've got some sort of common ground, and that's been obvious. We, for what it does to the National Pact for Industry, the compliment, which you expose, tell them that there is a compromise from the Councilwoman. The data for 2017 were presented to the Executive Board of the Català d'Empresa Council and for 2018 are presented the next month of May. Therefore, the councillor has undertaken to be able to make an appearance after this date. As Mrs Baró has already said, on the subject of the individual programme for years we will not vote in favour, because this pact was born with a funding format for programmes, and therefore it is not detailed by points. Obviously, like the Generalitat, the Government will do whatever it can to compliment the presuppositions, cannot be in any other way, and it does not mean that it would have helped enough the predisposition of some groups that criticize some actions and that should also make a reflection to put high expectations when really what is appropriate is the support to bring forward the presuppositions for rendezvous. We are absolutely in agreement with the whole issue of energy efficiency and energy efficiency. We've also added industriality, mobility; we've added the building sector, counselor, I think that's also key. Discretion in the 70_per_cent assimilation in the contribution of renewable energies; we would like to. I think there has to be a deal here with the nuclear shutdown schedules. I believe that this is a matter that if the Socialists can be in the government, we can find agreement with this progress, and, if not, we are going beyond the nuclear powers, which we are already dealing with, in this period of transition to an energy model in Catalonia. For what he does to the Energy Plate, climate change, in this we have absolutely agreed with what they propose. We give an ample support to the automotive sector points. There is an important compromise from the Directorate General, and from Action, which is looking at it, together, all the work, with the same sector. And for what it does to all the artificial intelligence, they know that there is a group where there are important people from the world [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] referents, and this group plans to present the strategy developed and approved...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.151.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.152.0	...before the summer of 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.153.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.154.0	...president. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.155.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then it has the word on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent of the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.156.0	President, to speak from the Escó. For this group it is practically impossible at the time to talk about industrial policy not to talk about the role played by the institutions of the European Union in relation to this question; first of all, for which it meant the input into the European Economic Community of this southern and central part of the Catalan Countries, the input from the Spanish State, and which imposed a clear policy of industrial conversion on that industry, not that it was deficit, simply that it was less competitive than the state of our environment. This has led to a fall in the last twenty-five years without precedents for industrial GDP. Also what it means in the last years that the European Union tells us what our industry should be, and it says it in a very clear way: construction, tourism, agri-food and automotive, and poorly construction and tourism break down the reality in which industry assumed to be stabilized in decent work places and wages and also become sub-sectors of job insecurity. That said, we want to express, in relation to the express content of the motion..., we would be in favour of and in favour of what is proposed in relation to the National Pact for Industry, or, better yet, what is proposed in relation to moving to the National Pact for Industry..., more than we may disagree with the National Pact for Industry, and partly with some of the contents; for this reason we would ask for a separate vote for what it does to automotive and artificial intelligence. And we want to end our intervention with a reflection that does not form part of the express content of this motion, but that before or after it has to be spoken in this House. We need to talk in this House about how we protect industrial polygons, whether it's through the law governing industrial polygons, or whether it's through changing the rules of the soil. It is not normal that there are businesses that have no lost – no lost – and that simply tank their businesses or move them to have a speculative plus value through selling land and going 'to do business elsewhere. And it is not normal for political parties that have representation in this House, through their local governments, to participate in it. This is not only a problem in the sense that the productive economy is transformed and that it jumps into the speculative economy, but it is a problem in the measure that transforms a fundamental urban reality of the metropolitan area of Barcelona and Tarragona and some other areas of the country, where there are still jobs linked to the quality industry that become, for this closure, precarious places.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.157.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.158.0	Thank you, President. Counselling, adviser, deputies and deputies, without any doubt the industrial sector is an important sector, and especially it is in Catalonia. And it is for many different reasons: for the added value it generates – the sector that generates the most added value – for the volume of exports, for the volume of investments it represents also as the highest exponent of innovation, and also, fundamentally, also important, for the quantity of work places and the quality of work places generated by the industrial sector. And it is for this reason that precisely the Industrial Pact has an extraordinarily important value, in addition to the same pact, that it managed to bring together, therefore, in the same table employers and social and trade union entities, right? , and the government and various professional entities, and most parliamentary groups. But without doubt that pact required some investments, it required an effort on the part of the Administration, and this effort fundamentally passed, passes, through the support of the Generalitat de Catalunya; the Generalitat de Catalunya that – let's remember it, the pact was signed in July 2017– neither 2018 nor 2019_had any assumptions, and for what looks like 2019 there is no intention to present assumptions in the Parliament of Catalonia. Allow me to give you a couple of data on the industry situation for these two years. In 2017, the industrial sector grew by 4.8_per_cent, industrial GDP grew by 4.8_per_cent; GDP in Catalonia grew by 3.3, that is, it grew from the general level. In 2018, industrial GDP grew 1.1_per_cent, Catalonia grew 2.6; per cent of overall GDP. But more than that, I will say: the 2020 strategy which pursued that 20 % of GDP was industrial, and that in the year 2013 from this same Faristol is said to" in Catalonia we are left behind because we are already in the 18th century. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , we are already in 19_per_cent; our goal is 25_per_cent. So good: year 2017, 19,26_per_cent; year 2018, 18,94_per_cent. Data of Idescat, Mrs. Pallares, of Idescat, it's not the data...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.159.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.160.0	... neither the Financial Times nor Mr. Oriol Amat, former Junts Deputy for the Yes, Idescat data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.161.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now finally, and to pronounce on the papers, has the word again Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.162.0	I told him before there was an intense job with most groups that have submitted papers, and finally the motion is more complete thanks to the contributions of the groups. But I wanted to reply to some of the comments that the spokespersons who preceded me have made. To the deputy of Ciutadans I would like to say that, of course, that you come here to criticize the industrial policy of the Socialist Party when they have posed of number two to a lord who is Marcos de Quinto, that the year 2014 made an ERO to the plant of Coca-Cola and made out 1,253 families when that company the year before [[applause]] there were €930 million of benefits, €930 million, te nassos. And do you know what he said in some statements? It's what I have to read, huh? ; says: "I am not in favour of free dismissal but if that centre was closed some guilt would have the workers. What are we going to do, Minister of Industry or Labour, to this gentleman? I hope they don't get to have this doubt because I hope they can't win or rule the Spanish state. In any case, industrial policy has always been there and has always been here. Miri, in 2010 the government of the Generality's industrial assumption was 165_million euros; today the proposal made by Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra was 47. I mean, the thing is, it's gone wrong. I would like to say to the groups that support the Government..., miri, the Kingdom of Spain does not have to lay the batteries. We have a minister who is among the 100 most influential people in the climate change. They've already sent an energy plan to Brussels about nuclear shutdown – the first time this plan is sent –; it's scheduled, now it can't change, because it's technically very difficult, but we've already scheduled it. The tank must be progressive. What we are asking of the Government of the Generality is that it anticipates; that it anticipates and thinks about which industrial policy it will do to the Comarques of the South of Tarragona where at these moments there are nuclear and we will have to reindustrialize with other sectors, because the nuclear will end up closing. There are many reps in Catalonia, many, despite the good data, many reps and we should face them now. I wouldn't have had to introduce this young man because I'd like to say that this government is leading. But as long as it doesn't, we have to file motions because you approve plans and read them. Well sad. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.163.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote? Yeah? [[Pause.]] Mr. Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.164.0	President, for a separate vote on points 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.165.0	Set have?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.166.0	Correct.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.167.0	All right. Any more petitions? Yeah? [[María Luz Guilarte Sánchez asks to speak.]] Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.168.0	Yes; I wanted to ask for the floor because of contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.169.0	So a moment we ask to see if there's any other separate voting petition more? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.170.0	President, add point 2.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.171.0	Two bs. Okay. Any more? No, no, Before giving him the word to inform the chamber that holds the hospital fees over a deputy, he has delegated the vote to the spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, to Mr Carlos Carrizosa. It won't come out on the screen; I'll add the vote in due course, huh? Next up, Congresswoman; thirty_seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.172.0	Yes, thank you. I wanted to tell the Socialist MEP to report first, because the ERE was from Cobega, which is the bottler, which has nothing to do with Coca-Cola or Mr Marcos de Quinto. First it's reported. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.173.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.174.0	And, in any case – in any case – for EREs, yours from Andalusia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.175.0	Let's get to the vote. Vote Voteremel point 2.b, from « Barcelona. The vote begins – 2.b. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, wait. [[Rialles.]] The vote begins. Right now. Point 2.b was approved by 67 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote point three. The vote begins. Point 3 was approved by 123 votes to one, with three abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number four. The vote begins. Point 4 was adopted by 124 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5 was adopted by 64 votes to 63. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. Point 6 was adopted by 124 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. We now vote on point 7b–7b. The vote begins. Point 7b was approved by 124 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the business and occupation in relation to the process]] [[302-00079/12]] Let's move on now, then, to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into business and occupation in relation to the process. Presented for the Grupo Parlamentari de Ciutadans, has the word, to present it, the deputy Mr José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.176.0	Thank you, Mr. President. In the past plenary I asked the Government about the main problem that we Catalans face, a problem that seriously harms our companies and that is endangering thousands of jobs, and that problem is nothing other than the danger of bearing the consequences of having irresponsible politicians, who by their drift are undermining a prosperous and dynamic region of Europe such as Catalonia. And so the data showed; in the inquiry of the last plenary we put on the table the worrying economic indicators that warn of a further slowdown in our economy, with the flight of companies, with the flight of deposits, with the fall of foreign investment... And not only do we say this; so do businesses and the self-employed, and so do economists and serious studies. The legal insecurity and political instability to which we are subjected is already damaging our economy. And what is more serious, gentlemen of the process: you know it, the separatist parties know it, because they handle the same data and the same reports that we have, and because it has been so in all the countries of the world that have suffered attempts to raise borders between fellow citizens. But they act as separatism has always done: hiding reality, seeking alibis and building a story based on falsehoods. Look, you guys are lying. They lie and challenge common sense when they ensure that nothing happens if more than five thousand companies are expelled, companies that represent a turnover of more than 35,000 million euros; five thousand companies that already make their decisions outside our autonomous community. They lie and really outrage me when they say that nothing happens to the estimates of BBVA Research, which estimates in more than 25,000 jobs that have ceased to be created by their drift. They lie when they say that there is nothing going on for more than a year and a half of a fall in foreign investment in Catalonia, which almost two years of loss of opportunity for all Catalans. They lie when they say that nothing happens when they have expelled 30,000_million_euros in bank deposits. And it is that everything that touches the process ends up broken; identity nationalism is always – always – a destructive ideology. It is because it ends up contaminating the decisions of citizens, economic operators and businesses, and it ends up appropriating and contaminating the institutions. And when nationalism enters through the door of big companies, the boards of directors flee to another autonomous community. When the process enters the offices of the multinationals, their investments are paralyzed and they change their destination. When the process enters the small business, they stop creating jobs. When the process enters our homes, families and friendships break and savings change their destiny. And when the process invades the institutions, it paralyzes them, blocks them and perverts them. Look, the blockade is more than obvious. From the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we present a multitude of economic and social proposals in this Parliament, proposals with the aim of improving health, education, competitiveness, innovation, proposals that you are unable to concretely and develop through the blockade and inaction in which your Government is plunged. And what we are presenting today with this motion is a series of essential measures in order to be able to develop precisely all these proposals. I would call them "measures of common sense, which you, lords of the process, have lost. Measures that I already know are not going to start, because this has become your modus vivendi. These are the basic measures and actions to restore the legal certainty and political stability that not only the Catalan economy needs, but we also need all Catalans. And the first thing they would have to do is recognize reality. They have to abandon that imaginary world in which they are immersed, they have to be aware and recognize that the blow to democracy they gave in the months of September and October 2017 cannot be repeated and that they continue to encourage with their continuous performances, and that this harms Catalans and Catalan companies. And we can change that course, change the course to guarantee and improve the well-being of Catalans, who have put us here precisely for that reason, so we charge. Ciutadans defends a project that focuses on union, rather than confrontation, based, as all democracies do, on respect for the legal order, due loyalty and institutional collaboration, and not victimism and insult. As I said, this motion is a simple application of common sense. But neither are you able to apply it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.177.0	To defend now the papers presented has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the MP Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.178.0	Thank you, President. Well, good afternoon, counselor, deputies and deputies. It must be because in the previous young man I've already been scalped, but, look, your fifteen-point young man, Mr. Cano, does not bring anything, does not build anything, does not help to add, does not help the country to work better. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no, It is true, I told you a few days ago, when you made a very similar motion for a resolution to the Committee on Enterprise and Knowledge: it does not bring anything at all. And I say one thing: you criticize independence because, you say, "its way of living... If it's its way of living too! Without confrontation, you're not anything either. And if you don't, read 'em: it's all against something, it's all reactive. Where is the proactivity of Ciutadans, the most important group in the chamber, presenting proposals for doing so? They're not here. It's still reactive: doing a study on what happened, criticizing, condemning... Miri, listen, on September 6th and 7th, what happened to Parliament, I think we've talked so highly. It generated political instability and legal insecurity, and this obviously does not favor the economy or that the situation, not only economics, but also social adventure, so move forward. We agree on that. But it's been two years. Do we have to go on with this? And you, then, there is another thing that they insist on very much, that is to criticize demonstrations, waves... I am in favour..., or I am against, say, that there are five types, on the part of the Government, of country promotions, which we do not know well who calls them. But I can't be against the right of manifestation, the right of vacancy, or the right of manifestation. What happens is that you don't seem to like some demonstrations, some waves... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, they don't like them... listen, president, they're asking me all the time. Listen, they don't like them, some of them. I don't know if he likes the one on March 8th, but..., the one on March 8th maybe not, the one on April 2nd maybe... if they like it or don't like it, then you, on this, module. Look, I'm in favour of all the demonstrations, all the waves and all the stops, because it's a right that citizens have and, therefore, listen to me, that's manifesting and ending what they need. Now, it has to be done, so, obviously, within the law. But we can't be against this. And that every time you have a demonstration tomorrow you study, well, so, I don't know, on March 8th there was a demonstration here and many cities of Spain, if you still have to ask for study to see how this affected trade and tourism... And if that's not it, Mr. Cano, make it clear in your mind that you want to study for the next five years. It's just that they don't make it happen here. And, therefore, if you tell me demonstrations and waves..., in favor of demonstrations and waves. And, obviously, that has some implications, yes. Well, but this right first a lot in front of the others. And, therefore, if you would like to say something else, write it down, because sometimes there is little courage in the motions; say exactly for which to stand and for which vague and for which manifestation you ask these studies. I think it would be important if we attached... In any case, we are in favour of freedom, in favour of rights, and we are obviously in favour of legal certainty and political stability, which is certain that this Government of the Generality does not guarantee us a great deal; we agree. But what we cannot be all day, constantly, repeatedly, presenting motions for resolutions and motions that speak to us about this. In some cases with a language, I don't know, say, politically spraying the larch. Because it is true that you use a very hard language; yes, very hard. And it seems to me that it would be good, if it's what we want is to join bridges, make bridges, add up, dialogue, wake up, let's all put down a little tension, because if it's not too hard. Now, if you want Catalonia to go on like this forever, that's to say, all your life with the conflict, so perfect. The Socialist Group and Forward Units don't want this. We'd love for us to be able to settle in a table, lower the table, give in to agreements, add... This country has many folds; I think it's seen during the various plenary sessions with the proposals we bring to the hemicicle. So listen to me, let's try to move forward in this sense. We think you're motivating like yours, the only thing they do is cheer up the conflict, and one and the other, and I don't know what, and potato and... it doesn't help, it doesn't help, after a year and a half of September 6th and 7th. Frankly, we believe that you, a majority group, who have a lot of capacity and good deputies, should make more proactive proposals to try to solve the situation in which we live, and not constantly feel reactive in the past, because many of the things you talk about are past. I also wanted to say something, about the boycott to the companies. Miri, escort'm, you can make lists of many types: on fair trade, on companies that respect international tax declarations..., on many. He's not denied, making lists, and in any case, the government doesn't have to go against anyone making lists. It's that there's a point that, honestly... entities also have their rights and also have their ability to decide what they want to do, and I think you're often trying to cover the mouth of a lot of people. And since they're so liberal, so respect the rights and freedoms of all citizens. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.179.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and to fix his position, he has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.180.0	We've had a couple of fulls talking about industrial policy, energy transition, business, occupation... When we saw that you were going to make a motion, we thought: "Man, at last – finally – we'll have some interesting business and citizen work proposal." But I think the title already says it all: « Motion on enterprise and occupation in relation to the process, a year and a half later! I mean, how big is the voting border with Vox? [[Give me the applause.]] Are you so concerned that Cayetana de Toledo is running for Barcelona? It's just a little embarrassing. I understand that it may seem frustrating to you that after a year and a half with the baton in all the commissions: "Motion of agriculture in relation to the process, "Motion of health in relation to the process, "the Commission of Institutional Affers..., a festival, "In the university there was an act of the Quixote and I don't know what... I know it is frustrating now to think that the Vox's will come, after a year and a half bit biting stone, and they will pass their hand through the face, but I would urge you a little to abandon this position of ridiculous parliamentarian. Because you also draw a scenario that I don't believe. You care between little and nothing that companies move in this country – between little and nothing. [[Greetings.]] You are only interested in having electoral ammo, and it is a miserable position that should make you react. Because, if you cared about the relocation of companies in this country, at least you would have to give us your opinion on what you felt the People's Party decree that facilitated the relocation of companies to other autonomous communities in this country. What did you think? They thought it was good. And they liked it because it gave them electoral ammunition. Or what opinion they deserve that the company committee of the SEAT had to publicly denounce political and monarchical pressures to change the headquarters outside Catalonia. And they haven't said anything about that yet. And you haven't said anything because you just want to bring Catalonia to a war of wear, and not to build a country project. Or how do you feel, for example, that Uber has its tax office in Holland and Cabify has it in Delaware? Does that not seem to you to be a wretched and improper tax fraud of a democratic country? No, they come here and defend them, it's the same thing. Or what do you think that your number two in Madrid, Marcos de Quinto, who blamed the workers of the ERE de Coca-Cola while earning more than 7_million_de_euros per month, would tax in Portugal to save their taxes in Spain? [[Greetings.]] Leo news: "Living in Portugal has a lower tax burden for him to do so in Spain, since, following the economic crisis, the Portuguese country allows foreigners who buy a house to be exempt from paying taxes for income from abroad. That's his number two in Madrid. They don't care about corporate flight or tax fraud, nor do they care about chiringuitos. Leo news: « The agricultural company of the registration of Marcos de Quinto Citizens receives in subsidies the triple of what it makes. Is this not indignant? Doesn't it embarrass you? How much patriotism can turn your back on the Coca-Cola workers? How much patriotism can it stand to defend those who live from the public and then fail to fulfill their responsibility and pay no taxes in this country? Point ten. It's just that there are points of the motion that really fascinate me. "Delete any tax or work restrictions that prevent the mobility of enterprises between autonomous communities. Is that your business policy? That tomorrow a company, as has happened in Sant Joan Despí with Agroaliment, sells the land to hit an urban ball and transfers its activity to another community? Is that what you want to win with this motion? Or do they go where they offer to pay less taxes to entrepreneurs in this country? Is that your business policy for Catalonia? It's a shame. What do you think, for example, of the staff cuts the Carlyle venture capital fund wants to make in Codorniu? What do you think vulture companies are planning on this country's productive economy? We haven't seen them say anything yet, but they want to convince us that they care. From this situation we have to go out building a project for the future, not competing with the heartless for a handful of votes or becoming the face B of what they say they criticize. It will come out defending those who work and those who pay taxes in this country, who are the ones who support well-being and take this country forward. And you today, with motions like this and with your attitude, are out of the future of dignity that this country deserves. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.181.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.182.0	To speak from the escó, Mr. President. Mirin, lords and lords of Citizens, defend his political freedom, his ideological freedom, his freedom of expression, but vaginate with statements they make..., that the only one they generate is panic among the working classes of this country. They say to you: "It generated an instability that led to the exit of thousands of entrepreneurs. And you know that when the people of Catalonia feel this, they think that businesses have shut down and gone, and you know that this is false. What there was-was a change of social domicile in some cases, a change of fiscal domicile in other assumptions, which was instigated by the People's Party through a normalized change. And they know it perfectly. And you also know, or should you know, that that came accompanied by tricks to companies that participate in the regular sector and tricks to their political representatives in some boards of directors. And they know it perfectly. But they could also know: what did this change of home mean? So 0.59_percent of the enterprises in this country, only 0.59_percent of the enterprises. And what did it mean for workers in this country? So, miri, only between October 1st of 2017 and July 31st of 2018 four companies went to Catalonia and changed their activity outside Catalonia, which affected only and exclusively one hundred and thirty-seven workers and workers. That's the reality. If they are so concerned about the reality of workers and workers, read point 2 of their electoral programme: "Austrian motxilla, that is: causation, without cause, with more reduced compensation. This is their defense of the occupation, which they do. And many thanks, Mrs Romero, because you were right. Mirin, Cobega is one of the eight codends that there was in the Coca-Cola process; the first is Coca-Cola Iberian Partners. I don't think you're the one they're trying to represent. And we take advantage to send, moreover, a fraternal greeting to our esteemed companions, the Spartans of Coca-Cola, who continue resisting to what their future representative wants to do there, to Fuenlabrada. And the last thing we want to say to you is, look, there's one thing that's fundamental, that's that they don't play with our work, they don't generate realities that don't exist. We've even looked at going to abstain from some of the points in which they were calling for reports. But the headlines you build, the headings [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] that you build even to ask for information...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.183.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.184.0	...are part of a reality that has nothing to do with this country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.185.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.186.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, November 2013, Oriol Junqueras: "Aturarem l'économie per pressurar Espanya, senyora Romero, blanco y en bottro. So that's what we have. And that's why some of them are defending it, and that's why they want to see that there's absolutely nothing going on here. As in the previous case, I've left data on the way, taking advantage of it to give them now. Industrial sector, the most important of Catalonia, occupation 2017: 623,000 Catalans; occupation 2018: 620,000 Catalans. If the companies get ahead of themselves, it's the fault of the October 1 winks. Fourth quarter of 2017: 3,200 businesses change their Catalonian social. Some won't care, because they want to nationalize businesses and then it's the same. But a lot of Catalans live by businesses. Do you know when 65 percent of these businesses are going to go? Between October 5th and 27th. And on the 27th of October, the change in his corporate society fell. Thanks to the DUI? No, no, Thanks to 155, many companies have put up with their social change. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, I know they don't like it, reality doesn't like you, they're more fancy. Foreign investment in Catalonia, data from the Idescat, is that I look at the Idescat ; the government and the independent groups look at the Financial Times, they listen to themselves, Mr.Amat, they listen to them... Idescat data : 2017 is the investment in Catalonia 59_per_cent; in Spain, it grows 4.5_per_cent. In 2018, in Catalonia, there is a drop of 11,8_per_cent; in Spain, there is a rise of 71,2_per_cent. Ah, yes, the catastrophic report is ours. In 15_seconds I finish: we will give support to the Ciutadans movement, even though there are some aspects that we do not like. But I can't help but say: welcome, Mr. Ferro, those from Podemos, to applaud the Labour Reform of the People's Party [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] through which they have welcomed the workers, advisors of Mr. Errejón...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.187.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.188.0	...to your party. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.189.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Antoni Castellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.190.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today Ciutadans, once again, brings us to debate a motion that tries to defend a thesis based solely on subjective perceptions, falsehoods. This is a young man we would call post-truth. The Ciutadans Parliamentary Group is a tool for generating fictitious relations, which justify its political action. And today the mantra we're dealing with is the mantra of the "independence process" that brings us to the economic disaster. Thesi: the foreign investment goes to Catalonia. Reality: the last five years, which is how foreign investment is calculated all over the world [[remorse of the voice]] , there's a record of inversions of a half of 4,000_million. Certainly, the data I'm going to donate is from the National Institute of Statistics, so don't be suspicious of anything, huh? Tesi: The occupation in Catalonia falls for the process. Realitat : we tank 2017 with a fall of the tatur until 13,4_per_cent; a given much better than the state medium. Tesi: the companies from Catalonia. Reality : from 15 to 17 there is an increase of creation of entrepreneurs in Catalonia of 5,6_per_cent; nine enterprises: 32,000 nine enterprises. Thesis: the independence process, during September and October 2017, is an economic disaster. Reality : we tank 2017 with a GDP growth of 3,4_per_cent, over the Spanish middle and the European middle. The data are coughing and they deny it. And as you know and have not been able to support the campaign of destabilization, this yes, the greatest that this country has had, the immoral campaign that led to the massive withdrawal of state agencies from Spanish institutions; the approval of Decree 15/2017, which allows for the transfer of enterprises, boards of administration, without the authorization of its owners, and the bulk, to use the head of state to press the enterprises because it is located in Catalonia, without success in the area of multinationals. All this framed in the most important coup that has happened in this country, that of 155. This is the empirical and observable truth. Yes, they are, lords of Ciutadans and their members of 155: you would prefer an economically and socially fused Catalonia if this involves the preservation of the unit of Spain, which is the only mantra they follow. Why? Because you, lords of Ciutadans, truly represent the ultranationalism of the state that in any one of you is the most dangerous. You were born as a formation with the objective of making the Catalan language disappear. Remember? [[Widow's remorse.]] You have grown up with the aim of breaking the social cohesion of this country. You've been fooling and manipulating your voters for years, driving low instincts, creating fake stories, instigating hatred against everything you don't have to see with what you think. You represent the dehumanization of politics. [[Widow's remorse.]] And I say that because it seems that you enjoy when you see your fellow prisoners or exiles. You seem to enjoy when they see the images of the police violence exercise on October 1. You are the ones who instigate – and I say so, "instigate – the appearance of violent Spanish squadrons who assault institutions and physically attack citizens of Catalonia simply because they don't think like you. In short, Mr. President, Ciutadans is a toxic organization [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , toxin for the citizen and the pau in this country. But you know what?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.191.0	Deputy, deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.192.0	They won't get mixed up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.193.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.194.0	And they didn't get out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.195.0	Deputy, just a moment. Congressman, I've got the word myself. I think there are a few statements you made that ask him to withdraw them, or else I will have to call him to order, MP. The following statements I believe exceed the limit of what we have marked all the Members of this House.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.196.0	Mr President, in any intervention and during the years I am a Member of Parliament, I calculate very well what I say and what I do not say. And, therefore, organisations which endorse – which endorse – facts which are relevant in this country believe that they can be entitled, I said, to "toxics and, therefore, that they are against pau and concord in this country. [[Greetings.]] And this is this congressman's opinion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.197.0	Member, you have expressed your opinion and I have already told you what you are doing in case, therefore, the call to order and we will also take into account your expressions as we did yesterday with other expressions that would go to the Bureau. Anyway, keep going.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.198.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm trying to finish my intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.199.0	Forward – forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.200.0	And I'm saying they won't get along because Catalonia is a nation of poverty and concord, has a cohesive society, succeeds in integration where no one and asks where we come from but where we go together. A society where the values of poverty, citizenship and democratic radicality are identity. A company, Mr. President, that October 1, 2017 decided what it wants to be, and that's what it is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.201.0	Congressman, you're out of here, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.202.0	...an independent republic serving a solidary, fraternal, free society. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.203.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr. Jordi Munell has the word. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet! Should I cry out to order? [[Pause.]] Also, Congresswoman. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.204.0	Thank you, President. I don't know what to rent my mouth with leixiu. There's really a lot of bad education around here. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, another young man more of this process than they like so much. They talk to us, as on other occasions, even in the past, they talk to us about social fracture, about the risk of losing jobs, boycotts, boycotts, victimism, insults, the supposed fiscal burden, supposed, legal insecurity, financial tanks between communities, instrumentalizing the fires, congresses and events, pressuring businesses, using embassies... A whole mantra, as compañero Castellà said. Before, they told us that we were a plague of tears, but you are a procession of the process: process and process and process. [[Greetings.]] A procession of painful misdemeanours, of hardships to a country that they say they esteem and defend, but that really the molten and barren volend. A movement of enterprise and occupation, but they do not speak of the lack of investments of the State to Catalonia, of the Mediterranean Corridor, of the network of rolling stock, of the railway accesses to the port, a basic infrastructure for the economy; they do not speak of unfolding the N-II, also of the Schengen port to the port of Palamós; they also speak of the tariff autonomy of those that would allow them to be more competitive; they do not speak of screening, as is the case, the benefits of the Prat airport to AENA and other airports; they do not speak to us of the electric tariffs, regulated by the State and that they are least competitive to the Catalan company; they do not speak of the fiscal balances: the last of 2014, published in 2017, scandalous example, the 8,4_per_cent of the tax system, the tax system, the tax system, the tax system, the tax system, the tax system, the tax system, the tax system. That's not what they're talking about. And this is for the economy and for the Catalan occupation; for tourism, for commerce, for logistics, for industry and, therefore, for the occupation and for people. But they're not talking about another visit, are they? – now fem história –; they don't talk about the October 1st garrotades that see hundreds of countries in the world, on the part of the state police. Does this appeal to tourism and businesses and investments? They also talk about the withdrawal of funds from public and state administrations, from public enterprises– Adif, Ports del Estado, Renfe, AENA, RTVE, etcetera–, almost surpassing the fourth part of these 30,000_millions that say they left from '1 October. That's not what they're talking about. Nor do they speak of the speech of the 3rd of October of the monarch, punctuating him "to them. This also helps tourism and business and occupation, huh? Neither do they speak of the October 6 decree, to facilitate this exit from their socials. That's not what they're talking about. They're not talking about the work done by the Foreign Minister to campaign around the world to clear the image – it must be that it's raw. These are the real mantras and lashes for the company, the occupation and the economy of Catalonia. They've already told you, you can read a lot of ways, huh? , GDP data, VAB data, we could do many of them. I'll be more concisive. Interannual variation of exports: Spanish-Catalunya, follow the same rhythm; oscil·len, eh? For the world economy, there is no trend. Variation of investments in Catalonia. Ep! Here, Spain and Catalonia are different. We'd rather be? Spain or Catalonia? Home, I in Catalonia, positive trend growing; Spain is down. Home, with a "puntas, yes, home: Abertis, Catalan company that moved its to Madrid and made two_months that bought it by some Germans. Boom! Volume of inversions at the top of everything, trend at the bottom. In economics, we must look at the five-year, quarterly trends; the trends. That's not what they're talking about, is it? They don't talk about it either. And in jump data of tourism, airport, port, increase of the volume of goods... CaixaBank : « We were wrong; the impact of October 1 was not such. The World: "Caltalunia the community that grows the most.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.205.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.206.0	Is it over yet? [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.207.0	Yes, indeed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.208.0	The Vanguard, ABC... [[Greetings.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.209.0	Thank you, Congressman. It's the same five minutes as everyone else, Congressman. Coming up, Congresswoman... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I was wrong. He plays it now, to position himself on the exams, to the deputy Mr José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.210.0	Thank you, President. Look, after listening to this, I am even more convinced of the need for a party like ours, a party like Citizens, to defend the rights and freedoms of Catalans, which you do not do. [[Greetings.]] Mrs Romero, you have devoted yourselves to the usual, to whitewashing the process. You're the co-workers, the co-workers in the process. [[Greetings.]] They've been like this for years. You're the accomplices, and you're also responsible for everything that's going on right now. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Ferro, I used to say that the process breaks everything; you are a clear example that the process breaks everything. [[Greetings.]] And when you were talking about weak borders I told you that the weak border is yours and the Republican Left of Catalonia. That's a weak border. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Castellà, I have to tell you one thing. You've disrespected us. Dehumanizing someone is the first step in committing or inciting an atrocity. And that's what you've done, here, with us, dehumanizing us. [[Greetings.]] And I tell you one thing, they're not going to get away with it – they're not going to get away with it. And we, the parliamentary group that I represent, are going to take care of it. [[Greetings. Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.211.0	Is it for separate votes, Mrs Romero? [[Pause.]] So say, say. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.212.0	For contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.213.0	Say it. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.214.0	All right. I just wanted to say one thing, Mr. Cano, did you see how right I was? You're only right if we encourage the opposite. If that's what it's about, to end the conflict and not solve it. And I'll tell you something else. If we whiten independence without governing with them, what are you doing with Vox, in Andalusia, who governs it? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.215.0	They've asked... to listen well. Separate votes have been called. [[Widow's remorse.]] MPs, MPs, if you don't listen, then you won't know what to vote for. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Mrs Segovia, are you for separate votes? [[Pause.]] Yeah, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.216.0	Yes; please, he voted separately from '1 and '10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.217.0	Okay. It's been asked separately from the 1st and the 10th, that I understand you can go together? Don't you? [[Pause.]] So 1 for one band and 10 for the other, and one block with 2, 6 and 13 and one block with 8 and 11. Yeah? [[Pause. José María Cano Navarro asks to speak.]] Yes; say'm, Mr. Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.218.0	Yes; for contradictions with Mrs Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.219.0	No, Mr. Cano, you have alluded to it, Mrs. Romero, from the Faristol. Now he's not playing anymore. We're still voting. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, We're still voting. I repeat again, we are voting in the first place on the number one point of the motion. The vote begins. Point 1 was rejected by 57 votes to 70, with no abstentions. Let's just move on to vote point number 10. The vote begins. Point 10 was rejected by 40 votes to 86, with no abstentions. Let's now vote on the block with points 2, 6 and 13; I repeat, 2, 6 and 13. The vote begins. Points 2, 6 and 13 of this motion are rejected by 40 votes in favour, 81 against and 6 abstentions. And now we're going to vote points 8 and 11–8 and 11. The vote begins. Points 8 and 11 were rejected by 39 votes to 64, with 23 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 64 against and 6 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into environmental conflicts in Catalonia]] [[302-00075/12]] We are now following the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on environmental conflicts in Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. To expose her, Mr. David Cid has the word. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.220.0	Well, in the past Ple, our group, from Catalonia to Comú Pode, we made an inquiry about environmental conflicts in Catalonia, and we talked, too, and we obviously placed the main environmental conflict that we have today in Catalonia, Europe and worldwide, which is the fight against climate change. In the later Committee of Territories, before the Councillor's appearance, I told him that we were before the lost decade in this case in rollers and, obviously, above all, in the transport of Renfe and rollers. But I think we can also conclude that this decade will also go to history as the lost decade of the fight against climate change in Catalonia. And I'll explain why. Because it's true, and I've told the councilman some time, that we've become specialists, I'd say to make law, and I'd say good laws – we have the law against climate change, we also have the law on public transport – and then we've also become specialists in not developing these laws or not completing these laws, because, at the time of truth, when, for example, we, from our parliamentary group, are setting up development in this case of the law on public transport financing and fiscal and environmental taxation measures to get more resources for public transport, it's impossible to move forward because the government has no intention of doing so. In second place, for example, also with the Climate Change Law. I think we have a good law, it's a good text, but it's obvious that Catalonia is not just taking steps back and I'd say that it's staying at home and away in this case of which of the whole European Union in the fight against climate change. I will give an example that I think is very clear and we have made reference to it again and again these days, which is, for example, in the production of renewable energy in Catalonia. Mirin, do you know how many wind farms have opened in Catalonia in 2018? Zero. I 2017, zero, and 2016, zero, and 2015, zero, and 2014, zero. Since the year 2013 there is no new wind farm in Catalonia, and, I feel it, but that's impossible... And I said to him: "Can Catalonia complete the objectives of fighting climate change by year 2020 or year 2030? And I said, "Yes. With this counselor, our group humbly doesn't think so. Because we have also proposed something that I believe is uplifting and there has been no way to get out - nor with the motion - and I want to give thanks in this case to Mr. Sanglas, who I believe has tried to do so - that it is, before a situation such as we have, from the emergence of climate change struggle, from the mobilizations not only in Catalonia, in the State, but at European level, that political decisions to fight climate change are being made: "Well, perhaps we can find a plate of rock to try once and for all to increase the production of renewable energy with wind and photovoltaic energy at the level of Catalonia, and perhaps we can find this topic at the level of public debate in Catalonia. And I raised them – to you who love the summits – : "We call a summit, we call a specific meeting with social agents, political agents, to set up which are the alternatives and concrete challenges of fighting climate change. And what is the answer they give us? I would say 'climate bureaucracy', that is to say: 'The Climate Change Law already refers to a social table, which in any case when we approve the decree, from here to six months or nine months, we will call it. Home, I don't know; if this is a social emergence and an environmental emergence in Catalonia, the State and the European Union, to me, I don't know, I'm surprised..., what I suppose..., I already know that there are a lot of districts, you, with the master games before the election board, but I think that this would be a central issue, in this case, at the country level. And then we also put a few more points in the motion that we think are uplifting and that they also have to see with this. Because it's true that everyone is filling their mouths about the fight against climate change, and a priori, when we talk, everyone says it's serious, everyone says, right? , which must be taken, but when we begin to put measures on the table or to raise debates that obviously affect interests that are counterposed, the problems begin here. And there's one element that's fundamental. For example, we have also said it, and we have said it repeatedly, and today we will vote again..., it is to say: there can be no fight against climate change and tend as a priority, in this case, the development of road infrastructure. There is a central element that also has to do with the tourist model and the urban model of the Costa Brava, which is the C-32. And you're encapsulated, in this case, in the prolongation of the C-32. And, look, you said to me, "No, that's what you say, that this will affect and can end up destroying sixty-thousand trees... Well, I've had the chance in this case to be the last weekend's head in Lloret and Glasses – which, of course, would also be better than to cover us up with the C-32, which is what it is to fix the C-63, which is known as the road of death – and it's obvious that it will cause a first-rate environmental disaster. So I'm going back to saying what I was saying to him: we want Catalonia to be the leader in the fight against climate change and in the defense of environmental policies. And that's what we're putting up in the room. And we have the feeling that this government, which does not govern, that it is just a government of governance, is in other things and is not, in this case, focused on the fight against climate change and the environmental defense of the territory of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.221.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, to present the papers presented, has the word Mr Javier Rivas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.222.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies..., present to us a motion that..., well, what Congressman Cid has now explained has not much to do with what is the propository text of the motion. We talked about climate change and what the motion is about is a problem of conflicts, environmental conflicts, isn't it? The title is conflicting, there is no doubt, but it drew my attention above all to the fact that when I started reading the motion the whole first page was ‘to put up, to put up, to put up with it; at the end of the last line I already found another verb, which was ‘to start the process to put up with it, too, isn't it? Prohibiting is easier; proposing is much more complicated, isn't it? The prohibition is of the year 68, of the Paris of 68. I believe that this stage is over, that we are in the 21st century and that we need to be much more pro-active, and by then we will find ourselves in the Citizens' Group. We've proved it to him, because we've introduced him to a lot of tests, and he hasn't bought us any. It is nothing; that is not the most important thing, neither of this subject nor of this motion, is it? With regard to the motion, all that is meant to develop our environmental legislation, to increase the, to apply the, to develop the, there we are going to find, no doubt. To give the government spindles to do its job, to rule, we'll agree completely, won't we? I think laws are important, don't I? , that laws are what regulate coexistence. I don't think people own the Earth, but we own the Earth, do we? , and therefore we have to regulate this coexistence in a legislative way, so that our relationship becomes not a parasitic relationship, but a symbiotic one. We all have to live under the same sky and we have to behave in a proper way, don't we? But there we disagree; we are always going to be much more pragmatic than you, who are always a little bit in a utopia, to say the least, aren't we? You're wearing a jacket, just like me. We have come to this Parliament in a car, which contaminates, or in a transport, I don't care – sorry –; in a transport it will contaminate more, it will contaminate less, but everything is polluting. We have written this motion with a printer, with a computer, which is built with minerals, with extractive methods... I mean it has to be pragmatic, that we agree on many things, but what you can't do is put yourself great. I mean, when someone's sick, don't lie on the couch reading Darwin's theory of species, go to the pharmaceutical industry. You do it, I do it, we all do it, and there's no harm in it, right? I want to be optimistic, but believe me, it costs me a little bit, doesn't it? I say this because if any regime or regime you aspire to has historically been anti-environmental, it is yours. I put myself in Lake Aral, which is dry, by Pepe Stalin's five-year plans; I put myself in the German Democratic Republic, which cost us a pastry of money to all Europeans, because it was devastated environmentally, and that was republic and democratic; but, well, it is that words are sometimes very easy and do not mean what they really would have to mean, right? I put myself in the Republic of Cuba, which have finished with all the species to make the monoculture of sugarcane. I'm in Venezuela, where you've had an important contribution in terms of counseling, right? Venezuela today is a devastated country – environmentally, I'm talking, huh? – it is nothing but oil waste, people who go hungry, people who are burning the jungle and ending diversity so that they can raise a calf and eat, because they are hungry. Finally, Hugo Chávez at the time said, when he came to power, advised by you, that in three years he was going to end the rich, and has proved to be a man of his word, he has fulfilled it: now there are no rich, now they are all poor, right? That, as you will understand, is not our model. You're in a binomial, you think progress is anti-ecological, anti-environmental, and I'm in a completely opposite one, I think progress is environmental. And I refer to the tests, and what we see in Europe, with all the failures, but it is always much better compared to what we can see in other countries or on other continents, isn't it? From the other points of the motion – this says that we are going to leave Reus without water, that we are not going to develop roads, that we are going to close the ski resorts, in a process of deterioration... –, as you will understand we will vote against, indisputably, you do not have... Look, I come from a land that lives from the tourism industry, which is the Vall d'Aran, right? And I'm gonna explain to him a little bit what's going on there. If you go one day – and you will be very well received – and you get into a hotel room, you will see nothing but a wall; if you knock yourself out of the window, you will see the house in front, and you will come to the conclusion that we have loaded the mountain, that there is no mountain, that everything is concrete, that everything is built. I invite you to put your shoes on, climb the mountain 50 meters and see things from perspective. You will see a village of stone walls, of slate roofs, and you will see a lot of mountains, you will see a lot of mountains. And if you climb another hundred meters you won't find..., just if you see the mountain. And if you climb a thousand meters, the only thing you'll see is a blue sky and snow on the peaks of the mountains. It's a matter of perspective. What I'm asking you to do is extend the prism a little bit. And if you don't want perspective, but want numbers, the percentage of land built in the Vall d'Aran is 0.00001_per_cent of the territory. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] In this line – I'm done; sorry, president – everything goes a bit. There was an Indian boss...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.223.0	You're out of here, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.224.0	... Seattle, from the Suquamish tribe, which said that we have not inherited the land of our grandparents, but that we have borrowed it from our grandchildren, and our obligation is to leave it to our grandchildren better than how we find it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.225.0	Next is the return of deputy Marc Sanglas, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.226.0	Thank you. Counselor, counselor... in any case, Mr. Cid, miri, allow 'em a thought that we have not done and that if I want to do it in voice, and, in any case, you ask if it is worth accepting..., on the title of the motion. You were talking about environmental conflicts; we would decide on a ‘need to improve, huh? , the environmental issue needs to improve, but with a perspective, in a sense of not posing the element as a conflict, but as a need for that which has progressed. A few months ago... or at any rate we could have had occasion in this parliamentary chamber, with a climate change law, for example, or with a coastal law that is on the way... there are some elements that have started to run by this government. In any case, there have also been participations of many social entities, many parliamentary groups, which have made and allowed us to move forward. And we think that this is the way, we think that it's not here where we should go and that, taking advantage of the social consciousness that exists today and assuming all the pleas that have certainly been made in previous governments that, considering that everyone has participated, there are also shared responsibilities..., some more than others; and so we won't deny it, huh? But in any case, there was also someone who had the chance to do things and they didn't do it. Therefore, from this point of view, take it, Mr. Cid, as we have advanced in some of these points, and therefore we believe that this is the element there is. We believe that with this lost movement, if I may express it, from the territorial point of view, we pass from the north to the south, we go back to the center and to the mountains of the Pyrenees; very well, I mean that in any case from the global point of view it is very well. Also from the sectoral point of view, we are talking about urban projects, motorways, mountain stations, transfer, electrical enterprises, millenary olive groves, protection of the Ebro Delta, renewable energies and climate change; therefore, let's say, a wide spectrum and a wide view from all over the country. And, therefore, from this point of view we seem interesting. But we insist on the element that we share with you, rather than the element of conflict, the element of the need for improvement. And with this perspective and with this will we have presented a follow-up of ideas, a follow-up of ideas that they have as their will, let us say, to improve the text and to put it into concrete form in some of its aspects. Appreciate the opportunity already to have accepted any of the papers submitted and the ability to deal with some others. In some other cases we have not found the point in common, but in any case, we also want to thank him for this availability. We, and to the title, let's say..., would pass a little over the points that there are, but in relation to the elements that you raised on the subject of the work of urban projects, it is obvious that the master plan, in which we also presented a theme... You said that with a realization ended in the month of April. We've wanted to point out and, from this point of view, we appreciate... speeding up the proceedings, we think it's a topic that can't stay long, but we need to define. But, in any case, what you're up to from some urban projects... these works, most of them are up to by the same decree, let's say, for approval of the plan's processing engineer. And, therefore, from this point of view it seems to us that they do not correspond, they understand that there are also some projects that are of municipal competence and that correspond there... I don't try, huh? ... that someone might say: "You say no, because you try to avoid the responsibilities. We take into account that in some of these joint ventures there are responsibilities, and in this case some improvements have already been made in some urban projects. You point to His Riera, Begur, for example; it is a project that is in the realm of urban soil, that hardly..., cannot enter into this realm, and therefore from this point of view I do say that it has been negotiated so as to reduce the density of built habitats and the number of built habitats. Therefore, from this point of view it has sensitized; we do not try to avoid responsibility, but we are. For what he does, I insist, on the theme of the inn at PDU, the theme of celerity. For what it does to the expansion of mountain stations, we believe that it would still be useful to analyse each case. You shoot wrongly and rightly, without pointing in concrete, and some project... At these times, for the information we have, there are no projects on the way. And, therefore, from this point of view, we cannot support it. And, in any case, to maintain the environmental sensitivities..., which, in function, let's say, of the proposals that there are on the table, we would examine them in each case and see whether they are respectful or not with the territory. For what you're doing on the subject of the transfer of the Siurana, we believe that at these times... you're asking for an acceleration. We think it's obvious..., and that's why we've presented a message, that in any case we have been able to deal, for what it does, let's say, with the issue of getting to a point that you allow or respect the full ecological of these rivers, and that, therefore, this is the element with which we have to work. See, huh? – and we believe that this is what needs to be analysed – in what areas it needs to be done, especially with local administrations and, in any case, also with media-environmental entities. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.227.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the turn of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and has the word Narcis Clara deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.228.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Councillor, Members of Parliament, various objectives of sustainable development of the 2030 Agenda are identifiable, to a greater or lesser extent, in this motion. These objectives are oriented towards sustainability and progress, forming part of the framework where different administrations make decisions. I believe that there are basic coincidences in the general diagnosis with the proposed group: the need for a global sustainable model, the great concern for the consequences of climate change or the challenges that Catalonia has to face in all these aspects. However, we often disagree in the description and analysis of reality, which inevitably leads to disagreements in the choice of policies to be implemented. I'll give you a brief reflection on your respect. Often, when we want to indicate that certain concepts or actions are incompatible we say that they are moving in parallel lines. I'd like to make another interpretation of it. It is reasonable to consider that environmental sustainability and economic development are variables that evolve and are projected in parallel, in the sense that they go in the same direction and feel towards the objective of the overall sustainability of the system, which has to be analyzed and optimized taking into account the two variables, not just one of them, as sometimes some groups want to hear – one or the other. Various SDG tapes refer to it. I'll just quote two of them. 8.1 states that it is necessary to maintain economic growth per capita in compliance with national circumstances – and to remarry the words "economic growth". And 9.1, that it should develop reliable, sustainable, resilient and quality infrastructure so as to support economic development – and rename the words "develop infrastructure". Another complementary element for sustainable economic development is the need to boost the economy of the 21st century. In this direction, the National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge, which is being promoted by the Government, is being addressed. Now I'm going to go over a few points in which we disagree. The first of these is that the Generality has exercised the powers that binds the law to it in the matter of suspense of processing, but it corresponds to the joints to stop the explicit works in the first point. I think the C-32 fits the type of infrastructure I mentioned earlier. The towns of Blanes and Lloret are almost eighty-thousand inhabitants, and are visited for hundreds of thousands of people during the year. This infrastructure is therefore very necessary. The inaccuracies that, according to my opinion, contain his proposal complicate the dialog and are an indication of the different perception of the reality that previously existed. In short: the project affects the municipalities of Tordera, Blanes and Lloret, but it did not go any further, as it was said in the inquiry. The global area of forest mass affected is a little more than thirty-two hectares and no more than sixty. It's about 18,100 trees and not 60,000, a very considerable and absolutely improper error. This project has not only been subservient to the environmental statement, but has introduced better protection and developed a programme of compensatory measures which, among others, will plant more than 31,100 trees in cliffs, ancient corridors of electric lines and riparian areas. We think that the fourth point is not justified, as there is no planned expansion of the currently existing mountain stations. However, I would like to express our group's view that, in order to fight against the depopulation of mountain regions and in favour of their economic and social development, it is essential to maintain these stations in good condition. The already constituted Taula of the Siurana-Riudecanyes is intended to preserve the ecological balance of the system, obviously, Siurana-Riudecanyes and which has enough ecological balance. Therefore, the advances that we would vote for that not to the side, but to the side b. We have made a number of agreements, but I have to say that I was somewhat surprised, not to mention very much, when the agreements were just criticized, for example, in point 9, because we traded them, on renewable energies, or on point 10, on the climate change we accept. Another thing is that the group proposing have other proposals that it has not announced, but that is no longer, say, my thing. In this sense, in the entry agreements I would like to say that we agree on the need to implement the proposals that the Delta Consensus Table is proposing for the protection of the Ebre Delta. The generality is working on it, and it's been a while. And as an example I'll say that the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability will be present at a different meeting of the Consensus Table. We agree to protect the olive trees, but I think we already approved yesterday that a proposal from the law has been submitted. So point number 4 I think is absolutely superfluous, if you want to listen to me. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.229.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, to fix his position has the word, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.230.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, the deputy David Cid's motion, of the commons, presents us today..., I think it poses so many issues..., and each one of them would probably deserve a deeper reflection than we can do with the positioning of a motion of..., in five minutes, right? We would need, there, a more extensive and profound reflection for each of the points. I will use the guide that the Member himself has used at the time to explain his motion for a resolution. I wanted to end these issues, and I'm going to put them to bed: climate change issues. Climate change themes or climate change is the main challenge we have as a society; also for Catalan. Yesterday, in a question that asked the Business Counsellor, she was also trying to place this issue as one of our concerns. The climate change... to face this challenge requires a variety of things. The first: valiant governments. And is the Government of Catalonia worth the time to address this issue, proposing proactive and active policies? Not from our position. We would need a more active government in time to face the challenges and develop the Climate Change Law that this Parliament has approved now a couple of years ago, and that practically, at all its points, is in force. And what do we expect to start applying it? Because we need good governments and citizens and active citizens and aware of the problem we have. Why do we need to know that we will have to make changes, changes in the lives of every one of us, changes in the patterns of consumption that are internalized in businesses, in the citizens after many years, right? We're gonna have to change the energy model. Yeah, we're gonna have to change the energy model. We have three nuclear cycles in Catalonia, one gigawatt each of them. At these times we have already marked to the shutdown calendar of these nuclear power plants that contribute approximately 50_percent of the country's electricity consumption. Changing these gigawatts or those megawatts that are needed involves the development and massive deployment of renewable energy in Catalonia. Renewable energy, however, is also distributed centrally. And what do we expect to address this issue and raise a question of these characteristics in Parliament? Because we also need to decarbonize the economy. At the summit, we will give support and we agree. In the recent past we proposed it, we didn't just get out; we hope this time we have more success. Now, in order to develop the Climate Change Law and fix the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in Catalonia for the various sectors, a key piece is needed: that the Government, that the parties that support the Government, we have already watered them in the Climate Change Law and that, at these times, the Government seems to be resisting it. And the touchstone to develop this is said to be a committee of experts on climate change. It is true that the parliamentary groups of this chamber will have to agree with the names that will form it. Now, somebody's got to take the lead. Without this committee, it's the one that has to propose the carbon assumptions that this will hardly advance. Therefore, with the agreements that have been reached in the transactions we will give our support. We can't..., in the themes that make reference to the coastal system, we also agree, because the coastal system, especially in some parts of the Catalan coast, is a very fragile system, which is once again under speculative urban pressures, allowing me to define them as brutal and, therefore, we will give support here. We can't give support to points that refer to the C-32, nor to mountain stations. There is a part of the point that refers to the river Siurana and Riudecanyes. Yes to the maintenance of full ecological. On the subject of C-32, which has been discussed repeatedly in this chamber and in the committees, we believe that this infrastructure is necessary. Another thing is the mobility system that we have to face like the country. We have always defended the electrification of mobility and, in the end, between Blanes and Lloret we will also have to go with vehicles that will probably have to be electric, but we will need these infrastructures to circulate throughout the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.231.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed has the word the deputy Natialia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.232.0	Good afternoon. We are happy to speak again of the environment, of territories. Deputy Narcis Clara, today, connected with the question that we asked yesterday to the President of the Generalita precisely about environmental conflicts in the territory and his vehemence in defense of the trinxation of the territory in favor of the extractive elites and of the enterprises that they are doing business at our expense, has given us many more answers than those that go to us..., than those that the President of the Generalitas did not give us when we asked: who are the reasons why his Government prioritizes the interest of a few operators, the interests of few enterprises passing through the mountain of the preservation and conservation of the environment, of natural assets and of the health and welfare of the people that is the general interest of the majority. Therefore, thank you for doing what the President of the Generality did not do that is to confirm that you are at the side of the oligarchies. About the young man, we understand that for what he does to the Costa Brava, we will of course give him support. We'll give support to most of the points we're getting. Now, we are also clear – and we say it all the time – that a young man will not change the territorial reality we have, that sense of doubt we need the ecological movement that is persistently in the territory giving the answers that at institutional level we certainly do not know how to donate. And in this sense we also criticise that – or insist on it again – the moratorium they have made on the Costa Brava, although it can be a breeze to breathe, does not have to involve a withdrawal from the struggle. About the conflict with the Riudecanyes system. Indeed, the Siurana Table which was created at our request has to manage the problem that has been revealed; a difficult problem that the Public Administration has about a fraudulent use on the part of the different joints, such as that of the Jungle, and an ecological and sustainable development problem. Finally, one more point we wanted to touch, the point that refers to the Delta Consensus Table, point number 8. We think it's a white check. Today, this table has not been planted if we want tough measures or rough measures for the Delta. We are concerned and, therefore, will not support this table, which is formed by a community of regiments and joints, has not given the necessary response and we have no guarantee that it guarantees from an environmental perspective the needs of the Delta and the demands of the Platform in Defense of the Ebro Delta. For the rest, despite the fact that neoliberal policies prevail in this country, eco-socialism must also respond and assume its responsibilities in the logic and division of this territory, if we cannot speak of Bracons.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.233.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, to fix his position, also has the word for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia the deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.234.0	Thank you, Vice President. Well, to position us in relation to this young man. One of the main features of public action must be legal certainty and therefore from this point of view we will not support – as we have never done with other parliamentary initiatives – to put an end to urban processes that have been started with rights. There were rights, permissions have been requested, permissions have been blocked. Why? Home, then, listen to me, because it's obvious, if someone has rights and demands the materialization of these rights, then we can't capriciously announce their standstill. And, in this sense, I can't help but remember that he was precisely an Initiative Director, who in my municipality, Vilanova and the Geltrú, put up with an urbanisation, that of the Long Plateau. A place where... – now you have to make about fifteen years – where there is now no natural space or urbanisation, and what there is together is a ‘fuf of 70_million euros, and the councillor of Territories and Sustainability can give them, therefore, because the Catalan Institute of the Self is also emboldened, in the ‘fuf that left Initiative for Catalonia in this action. Therefore, we will vote against those actions which suppose to put up with aspects that are already initiated, such as aspects such as the C-32 road, which obviously improves..., which aims to improve mobility, or the investments that can be made in mountain stations, especially those that are owned by the Generalitat, and which we hope someday can revert to the private sphere, because, obviously, it does not have to be the function of the Generalitat, that of the exploitation of ski resorts. We will support those initiatives that we believe are viable, we will abstain in others that we believe are inconcrete, such as that of the transfer of the Siurana-Riudecanyes. We will vote in favour of the party that is talking about providing full-fledged ecologics, but not of reversing, without a concretion, the transfer. We will not be able to vote, we will also abstain in the one referring to the proposals of the Delta Consensus Table. Basically because the proposals are not yet known. Therefore, donating support to implement something that is not well known, we cannot donate support, even though, obviously, as a driving force that was the People's Party of the Delta Consensus Table, we will not vote against it. And finally, about the convening of a summit of social workers, I think that what's relevant and what's important is not that you're making a summit, but the content of that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.235.0	You're out of here, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.236.0	So we can't give support to it either.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.237.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. In order to pronounce on the papers presented, there is now the paragraph of Deputy David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.238.0	With all due respect, Mr. Rodriguez, that you've been talking to me..., and someone from the People's Party is talking about "girls, it's just that I'm starting and I'm not finished, it's just that I don't have enough or two minutes. If I can start with the Beaver, and I can, well..., and married in itself is a "senseful little girl," I mean, I don't know where we end up. But in any case, I'm going into what Mr. Sanglas was up to, right? Mr. Blood said we need to get better, didn't he? I think what they need is to rule, huh? The problem is that we have a... in this case, as in the least, in environmental policies, I have the feeling that Catalonia is stuck. As at least in the fight against the Catalonian climate change, it's stuck, and to the fact I send it back. That is to say, there is no government that can guarantee today that the year 2020 and the year 2030 will complete the objectives of fighting the climate change and the production of renewable energy in Catalonia. And look, you know what I think? – and we were talking about it now with some member of your group – that the counselor is already fine with it, that, because, you know how we're going to end, I have the feeling? That it is with a new expansion of the useful life of nuclear power plants. And that the government expects this to end up fixing a future PSOE government, or even worse, a PP government, because if not, there will be no way to complete the fight against climate change. And, look, that you're talking about the C-32, which has no environmental impact... Well, today... Well, we've already moved on, by luck it's just – only – you're going to be carrying two thousand trees, it's not sixty thousand. Well, so, well, "just divide_thousand? Home, if you ever told me it only divided, but divided_thousand... [[The timer laughs.]] Deu-n'hi-do. Well, I end up with something that I wanted to say to you, too, in this case, to Mr. Ciutadans and also to Mr. PP: you're talking about us wanting to put up with the progress. Look, I'm telling you honestly. If we take into account your policies, what we're going to do is we're going to end the planet, huh? And so, I think we don't have to fight the climate change anymore, and I'm sorry I ended up with a... I don't know if... , a comment: this is my transportation method, it's T-mes, and, in any case, to Mr Terrades, who listens to me now, this is no longer electric car or car with gasoline, but it's collective transport, which is public transport, which is what we need to serve – yes, yes. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.239.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Vagina... say'm, Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.240.0	They are separate votes: point 3, point 4, and 5a, which can go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.241.0	Three, four and five...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.242.0	Fifth, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.243.0	All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.244.0	Point number one, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.245.0	Point number one. Any more separate petitions? [[Pause.]] Say, Mrs. Sànchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.246.0	Separate vote, Vice-President, from points 8 and 10, but that can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.247.0	All right. Yes, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.248.0	I'll tell you the numbers, but I think we'll end up voting separately: 1, 3 and 4 on one side; 2, 5.b, 6, 7 and 9 on the other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.249.0	We vote for it all separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.250.0	Thank you. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.251.0	So, we'll vote point for point. No, because it doesn't fit with the blocks I've been through before. Therefore, we would end up voting equally for the majority of points separately. So let's start the vote. We'll vote first. The vote begins. Point 1 was rejected by 28 votes to 99, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. The second point of this motion was approved unanimously, 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. Point 3 was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 115 against and no abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4 was rejected by 10 votes to 117, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. Point number five... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me, it's true – yes, yes, yes. Yeah, or go on, we're voting, on the 5, too, the subpoints, huh? I get it, then? [[Pause.]] We vote, therefore, on the 5th. The vote begins. Point 5a was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 116 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote on point 5.b– 5.b. The vote begins. Point 5.b was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. Point 6 was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's now vote point number seven. The vote begins. Point 7 also approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's go now and vote point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8 was adopted by 123 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point number nine. The vote begins. Point 9 was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 10. The vote begins. The wish and the point of this motion is approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 7 abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! Say, Mrs. Sánchez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.252.0	To clarify the meaning of the vote, simply to report that we were wrong in a vote, from point 8, that we wanted to abstain, and just to say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.253.0	Okay. It's picked up on the record. Thank you. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of health services]] [[302-00076/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the situation of health services, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Lord Santi Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.254.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, in the last plenary we made an inquiry to the Councillor of Salut, in relation to the situation of pediatric care in the mark of primary care in Catalonia. Let's remember that this is a problem that I don't need, and if I may, it's not the process, of this situation, but it's enough before, but it's progressively a deteriorating situation, isn't it? And let's see how it is in many municipalities where there are many complaints from families, from families, obviously, from users, in relation to different dysfunctions that pediatric care presents to primary care. And, in this sense, we wanted to present a motion with a series of proposals, which I would say were discussed in terms of, I would say, three fundamental aspects. The first is to have a presentation of what we are pursuing, from the point of view of public management, in relation to pediatric care, and in this sense to take the strategic Pla of pediatric care to primary care, which is already a few years old, from the year 2007, but which provides for assumptions that continue to be valid to remind them today, as the fact that every infant and adolescent under the age of fifteen must have a referral pediatrician. But there are also other aspects that we consider important, such as the fact of saying: the preference is that the doctors who support infants under 15 years of age are specialists in pediatrics, and that is not the case, because they are not enough. In what quantity? We were going to set up a cup of about three hundred pediatrics – they are about to complete – so that we can assign approximately 1,200 infants to each pediatrician, which is where the WHO recommends, but it is also where in some way..., which foresees the strategic Pla of pediatric care, and therefore we lack three hundred professionals. Does that mean he's not a woman? No, he's a woman of this kind. Who gives this service? They donate family meths that have certain training in pediatrics. And, therefore, we also wanted to raise awareness in the field of recognition for all these professionals who are covering this area that cannot be covered by pediatric specialists and that therefore these other professionals are covering this area, but at some point today: this is a short-term solution; this cannot be the usual practice. This may be the solution to a specific problem, but it does not have to be the solution to the problem, but the solution to the problem has to be addressed as we resolve the lack of pediatric specialists to primary care. And in this sense, we also propose a follow-up of measures that must be taken to ensure that in the next few years, therefore, there may be more professionals than pediatricians in primary care. And obviously the first step passes because in the convocations of resident doctors, for so much formation, the Generality will ask the ministry for a higher number of training places in pediatrics, for one side. But, on the other hand, this is not enough; on the other hand, they have to give the necessary incentives because all those professionals who are trained in this specialty, all or those who are needed, then they may..., or they see a place of professional development in primary care, which now does not happen, because the majority prefer or the hospital option or even prefer to go to other places outside Catalonia and even outside Spain. Therefore, we aim for incentive measures, such as establishing what professional development can be offered; a better level of work and pay conditions; a better level of family reconciliation conditions; coordination, obviously, of primary care teams with hospital paediatric teams; and finally, the creation of multidisciplinary teams. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] in which he also intervenes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.255.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.256.0	...infirmary specialized in the area of pediatrics. And, therefore, this is the reason we submit to his consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.257.0	On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, in order to position itself on the papers presented, has the word now the deputy Mrs Maria Assumption Laïlla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.258.0	Thank you, President. Counselors... Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez, for bringing this motion to the plenary, although we can certainly say that many of the aspects raised by this motion were resolved to the last committee, in which the councillor appeared, that within the framework of the explanation made by the Forum de Dialeg Professional also, and concretely, made a lot of reference to the field of pediatrics. You were unable to come to this committee, but I do know that you have received the relevant information and above all the information that refers to pediatrics. And I'm saying this because, concretely, there was a lot of reference to the area of pediatrics in primary care, and talking about concepts with the strategic alliance also in this area precisely to avoid having pediatrics alone, right? , doing this pediatric attention to primary care, which would be counterproductive, would contradict this will of continuous training, multidisciplinary work, of work teams that can enhance not only in primary care but in all health care. And, in fact, Mrs Escarp spoke of the example of the model they have for Pirinaeus in order to guarantee this pediatric reference care, in which teams of pediatricians to Pirinius work together in those more territorially-speaking areas but also, therefore, receive specialized attention with direct and constant connection, up and down third-party hospitals. Or also Mrs Espigares, who referred to a question that I believe is relevant and important, and it is that, recognizing that there is a significant lack of pediatricians, you also mentioned in your intervention, not only in the inquiry but in the defense of this young man, we might have to raise it if, for example, the child knows what pediatricians are doing in the day-to-day in the first place might have to do the nurses. And this question obviously overcomes the debate of this young man, certainly, but it is true that it also affects him, because it makes it obvious that measures are dropped that go beyond those that are conjunctural and that can be difficult in the long run..., but it certainly also needs a more substantive review in the framework of this Forum of Professional Dialogue, but also in this global reflection on the health system. And that said, it is obvious that we share the need for this motion that all infants must have a reference professional assigned, mostly a pediatrician, and occasionally and transiently a family meth with specific, not determined, training that you gave, but specific training in pediatrics. Don't forget that family and community medicine-formatted meths meet the family's breadth, the infants, and also the third and fourth ages. Therefore, they can safely deepen within their own thematic attention to childhood. And from here I'm moving on to the forbearance that we're going to do at point three of the show. And we will also abstain from point 4, because we have to assume this difficulty that you also explained, today, to find specialists in pediatrics, and not only in pediatrics, but that there are other specialties, such as gynaecology, as odontology, that we also have a major lack of professionals, and even that we can take steps to resolve this conjuncturally, will require a deeper debate. And from here our abstention to point 4, because it is true that there are no pediatricians, but it is also true that the measures to be taken must be structural. However, in this area, which obliges all of us to take more training in pediatrics; to improve the conditions of professionals, basically of doctors and nurses, but of all professionals who give health care; to improve their conditions of entourage, their working conditions; to make primary education more attractive, which is a challenge that we all have; professional development; job stability, etc. And all this means reinforcing this primary care also in pediatrics and making it more resolute, that it is the health care center and that it is co-ordinate, as this young man says, better with the hospital. I add that the coordination of primary education should not be better in hospital care only in all those devices that pay attention to health and that we know more that the challenges that place the needs of the population's salvation in the future will force us all to set it up, and it is a greater coordination with the socio-sanitary services – with the socio-sanitary services –, with the community circuit, with the education system, etc.; we do not just need to rotate over this primary-hospital axis, but we need to expand this coordination to areas that go much further. For this reason, and in this sense, and finally, we appreciate the acceptance that has been made of most of the items that we have raised in this young man and also the transaction made to three in point 6 of this young man. And, therefore, confirm, President, that we will vote in favour of the whole motion and abstain from points 3 and 4. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.259.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the words of Mr Josep Riera, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.260.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, public servants, workers, is fine as long as they find an oasis. This guy's a little bit of a girl. It has already been seen in the general coincidence that there were fifteen days ago between Mr. Rodriguez and the Councillor, in the inquiry that originated this young man. Councilwoman Alba Vergés gave reason to the deputy in the diagnosis and even in the data he provided, and in any case the few differences were in the face or at the speed of the best of pediatric care in primary care. This young man seems to be getting approved because all groups share the best will of pediatric care. That's why he was talking about oasis, because this coincidence is welcome especially at a time when the electoral climate has crushed the machinery of the parties, and in the case of certain groups this means a dialectic escalation against independence that, we have already seen in this House, has already exceeded all the limits of education, respect and lack of scruples. I take this opportunity to remind you, even though it is likely to sting cold iron, which in politics is not all worth it; because this is what friends and acquaintances tell me: "How can it be allowed that certain things are said in such an unpleasant and so little respect for institutions and people? So that's why I'm saying it now and here: it's not all worth it. Welcome home, then. He said this young man would approve, but I let him, Mr. Rodriguez, that we have some objections and that we will justify them. First of all, however, I would like to thank him for the acceptance of most of the items that we have tabled in order to improve a text that we essentially agreed with, because the chapter, and now I am addressing to the Members who do not know the detail of the content of the motion, is the Government of the Generality to take steps to improve the pediatric care in the primary assistance, as it now lasts the necessary measures to ensure that each infant and adolescent under fifteen years of age is assigned a referral pediatrician, which is the content of point 1 of the motion. With the transactions we have managed to improve the text, but we will abstain in points 3 and 4, since they have not accepted our papers. In point 3, because we want it to be recognized that all the doctors they do every day... they tend to infants, they have specific pediatric training, whether they're special pediatricians or not. And in point 4, we would already like to be able to approve and guarantee that – I quote the text of the motion – all primary care teams in Catalonia have at least one pediatric specialist. We'd like that. And all the experts on every primary care team, as Congresswoman Laïlla said. And more squadron moves, and more bombers, and more masters, like some opposition groups always ask us. But because they've spent money that isn't there yet. Prioritzin, they always tell us to get out of the way, but prioritizing is always out of hand. That's why I want to reflect on you, Mr. Rodriguez. In his reply in the speech of the previous plenary, and today I also repeated it, you said to the councilwoman: "How do we do that? As we do to get her to have the pediatrics that our own plans tell us what we have to have? And he would say to him again, "How do you do that? Do we have any plans to try to capture this situation? The answer is yes, Mr. Rodriguez, we have a plan. To capture this situation and to capture many more. We, the independenceists, have a plan, which is to fulfill the majority mandate of the Catalans, exercise the right to self-determination and create a state in the form of a republic. In the economic sense, this is the most effective way to deal with situations like yours, and many more, because it is the way you could deal with the fiscal deficit in Catalonia and allow Catalans to manage all the resources they generate. It is, therefore, also the most social plan that any opposition group has. In social and economic terms, it has no competence. When you pull your eyes, if you want, and stop demagicating and supporting this plan, be the first to demand from the Government of the Republic that every primary care team have a specialist pediatrician, and there and there and there and there. Meanwhile, as resources are more limited than we would like, we cannot compromise the government on something that it would like to be able to do. That's why we'll abstain at this point. And while we're still working for independence and the republic. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.261.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Subsequently, for the Grup Parlamentari de Ciutadans, the deputy María del Camino Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.262.0	Thank you, President. Counselors... Until a few years ago, our children had ensured a good care system, but now I might say that it is in danger of extinction. The Catalan Society of Pediatrics numbers in three hundred pediatricians who are missing throughout the territory, and currently 30_per_cent of the places are not covered by these professionals. According to Metges de Catalunya estimates, between 5 and 7 per cent of primary care centres do not have a pediatrician, and report that, as a rule, no primary care emergency centres do. The crisis of pediatric professionals has been covered with patches; in part, thanks to the nursing professionals who are dedicated to it, and, on the other hand, filling the lack of pediatricians with primary care doctors. It is only to them that we should be grateful that the attention to our children has been maintained during these years. Many times, nursing professionals in pediatrics have to face consultations without having a pediatrician at their side, having to do screenings themselves, which, thanks to their professionalism and experience, have made the care quality of these small patients the right one. It's time we recognized their great work. Paediatric consultations are no longer just loaded with viruses, some other crying and worried parents, they are also loaded with high levels of stress experienced by professionals. Do you know that there are pediatricians who have between fifty and sixty children on the schedule to visit each shift? Yes, they do. And to this must be added the visits that must be taken in the absence of any companion. With this volume of patients and the lack of planning by the Generalitat, they are preventing pediatricians, who already have little time to attend to a normal cold, from devoting enough time to detect problems that are often accompanied by silence on the part of children; abuse, abuse or bullying are situations that sometimes our minors keep quiet. And pediatricians must have time to interpret those silences. The last strike resulted in the Government's commitment to limit the number of visits, as well as to extend the time devoted to each patient. The study on the care burden which should have been published in January has not yet been published. And not only that, but they're still doing professional studies. It's been three months. And that means that many of the teams have not yet adapted the quotas and still have not changed the agendas. They are not complying with the agreements reached and we hear bells of a new strike again. The problem is not only that sufficient pediatricians are not trained; the problem of pediatrics in primary care is that they are not attractive to those who have just finished their training. The wage and the inability in primary care to make guards to supplement those, the layoffs, retirements and vacations that are not covered, the care burden and the difficulty for work and family reconciliation make them opt for another job option, go to other communities or even outside Spain. Look, children are not short adults and their health care has certain specific characteristics and conditions. The pediatrician is the only adequately trained specialist to detect certain diseases that are typical of childhood. He is the only one who knows how to recognize the real normality of all the growth and development that takes place until the age of fifteen. There are health problems that occur during the first years of life, and if the warning signs are not detected in time during the reviews can overlook diseases that are later harder to solve and that can also worsen. Thank the People's Party for accepting two of the amendments that our group has tabled. And we will support the whole motion. And we ask the Government to act and to work and manage; focus on solving the real problems of people and especially those that affect the most vulnerable in our society, our childhood. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.263.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to fix her position, she has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress, the deputy Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.264.0	Thank you. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units will give support to this motion. We have not submitted papers; we share their contents. And, in any case, we also share the compromise effort made by Congressman Santi Rodríguez and who gave little to this final draft of the motion, which we share. Jo, before I go in and... just a reference. Said Congressman Riera that this was an oasis. And I think it's worth it, when we talk about salvation, that we talk about responsibility; responsibility..., not oasis, but the responsibility we should have every day to address what concerns citizenship. I don't see myself, Mr. Riera, saying to the seas and to the couple: "Wait, we'll fix it with the republic. I think we have an obligation to be where we are, to pull some of the things that come up and that are planted here. Because I think this is a motion for a resolution that has asked a lot of people. In fact, in the Health Committee we haven't seen any of the likes. And these days we are seeing as many municipalities are approving many motions; motions claiming pediatricians. I have made a call to these agreements that the assemblies bring and send to Parliament: from Tarragona, for the Franchises of Vallès, La Sagrera, Castelldefels, Badia del Vallès, the Diputació de Barcelona, and I leave many others. It means that it's a problem that's here, that's on the street and that people are hurting her. The same mayor of Tortosa, of one of the parties that gives support to the government, said a few days ago that..., asked the councilwoman to go back on the changes to pediatrics and the specialties to Tortosa. That means the problem is here. I think we're all aware, and, besides, this is a scientific evidence, right? , that the treatment..., I mean that the attendance by pediatric professionals to the under fifteen years old has a lot of benefits. It has the benefit of early diagnosis, better control, chronic diseases, and especially the least..., or it causes you to decrease, sometimes, additional tests or prescriptions of drugs that are unnecessary and that others could do. Currently – and that's the most worrying, isn't it? – the Catalan Society of Pediatrics estimates that about 250 pediatricians are missing. This is one of the specialties in which the number of trained professionals is lower than the number of retirees; the repositioning rate is 0.8. And meanwhile, between 11 and 17, so we have forty thousand more infants in Catalonia. And that, somehow, is what has provoked where we are now and at this point. I think it's all right, Mr. Rodriguez, that we in the House recognize the work of the teachers and the primary teachers who attend and who also take, with their own training and the complementary training that they can acquire, so this pediatric care. And so we recognize their pocket and we agree on how many they do it, because the department recognizes that a 20_per_cent, and they recognize that almost a 40_per_cent are the ones that at this time... Because it's true that when there's a bass it's not copper, and therefore the others have to do it. I think we make it very clear the other day when we talk about the trades forum and say: "We adapt the specialties to the needs, we fight against injustice, we define professional roles and we prestige primary care. I think it's four pillars that we can all agree on. Maybe we don't match in time. And, therefore, we « press because we also « press all and each of the motions that have been approved in these municipalities, the resolution presented by the Member or all that we have approved to the Health Commission, among other things because this is a reality that we have here. And not just with the motions; I want to remember that there are citizen plataforms organized in the Anoia, in the Roquetes, specifically claiming pediatricians. I believe that Mrs Laïlla has been the subject of providing professional solutions to territorial problems. I shared a lot of the things she said, didn't I? : We value primary education; we encourage that pediatricians are also connected not only with their CAP, but also with a hospital centre; continuing training, and we facilitate professional solutions to territorial problems, which do not feel alone in their territory. I share that many times they say that, don't they? : Seeing children without, by fate..., by fate, see many children without; so maybe they haven't formed because of this but they have also formed because of this. We also have to tell them that this is a prestige, but we can also help them somehow get more connected to a hospital. Therefore, from this perspective, I believe that it is a certainty that today we are following all folds – and capable of – to approve this proposal, this motion to the House today. And ask, therefore, that among all "we squeeze..., because it was possible to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.265.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, and has the word of Congresswoman Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.266.0	Good afternoon. This week in Sergi Picazo he published to the journal Critic an article precisely of a reflection that he had made that in a program of RAC1 and explained a personal anecdote, he said: "I go to the pediatrician; it touches important review, that of the six-months, and they tell me, one time there, and after waiting for half an hour, that my pedigree is not because it is ill, that it has not been substituted for it throughout the CAP and that they will not be able to attend to it until two or three weeks from now, and in any case they will attend to it if it is that the pedigree has already recovered for those dates. And the same Picazo said: « All·lucin. To ask the professionals, they explained: "Don't you know, there are no pediatricians in Catalonia? Yes; three of each of you suspected pediatricians who find you when you carry the child or the child to the outpatients are not pediatricians, they are family doctors who are doing the pediatric functions. In addition, these are the data in the area of Barcelona. If we go to the territories, so to speak, the data is more worrying. And the situation will go worse; it will go worse because there are no pediatric residents, there are not MIRs enough pediatrics to rest the pediatricians who will retire. The motiu... there are no pediatricians, no. Motieu: there are no pediatricians who want to go to primary school; there are no pediatricians who want to go to work overload, extra conflict of consultations, external difficulties to enjoy a small amount of family reconciliation with schedules. There are no pediatricians who want these conditions. It's the same situation we have with the rest of the primary professionals. And it's that we're still patenting the consequences of Mr. Boi Ruiz's and the Government's detailing of the best: a thousand minor doctors, a thousand nurses and minor nurses in primary school, along with a very important reduction in the staff of the administration, and also detailing in work conditions. Some things have recovered, but not much less of all the working conditions and still less of all the staff that was retailed in primary care. And as it is more difficult to solve, to recover, to recover from those details and to increase enough to give response to the current population, the more they will still worsen the working conditions because it will be harder to overload for these professionals. Therefore, we are doing a damage to the primacy as to prestige, as to image and quality that is not only the damage that has been painted now but can last for years – years. Let's approve of this young man. It goes in the same line as the decáleg, in fact, of proposals that the same pediatric sector demands for primary care: more MIR places, promote primary care among students and pediatric residents, compatibility with family life and also with research and community work, better jobs, and, therefore, also improve the work teams and the benefits that nursing staff may be exercising. We would, however, like to add a more substantive element as well. There's another thing missing: planning. Mr Riera said: "We have a plan. Look, they can have a lot of things, surely, but a plan doesn't have it; a plan, precisely, planning, to solve the day-to-day problems of the barrels of our cities don't have it. It's just that if you're working on the eyes that you'll get it from, it's almost two years ago that the Metges College of Catalonia is telling you that you're retiring and that you're retiring more girls and girls than you're going to have to rest there; that you were telling them that the primary is where there's the hardest situation and that especially in specialties like pediatrics, and that CatSalut himself admits that there's 1,500 family members missing in primary school in Catalonia. Therefore, neither do we have family doctors to replace pediatricians and pediatricians. Or, no, there's no plan, because there's no plan, because it's been a long time since you guys worked your eyes and didn't listen to what the people asking you to plan are claiming. Look, the issue is not new, and the harder it is to solve the consequences will be. And the subject is only solved by finally finishing with the details, recovering the working conditions and recovering the name of sufficient staff. I did not think that our parliamentary group, in the negotiation that we tried to make of assumptions, posed as a single and main priority in greeting 850 professionals more for primary care. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.267.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent cry is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.268.0	Thank you, President. To intervene from the escó. In the first place, we have to move that this young man seems to be opportunistic, not opportunistic. And we must express this with all sincerity, because obviously we consider that we have a difficult problem not only in sanitation but in a very special way for what it does to pediatrics. In fact, we will position ourselves in favour of this; of some of the contents we also want to express that we can abstain perfectly... – it is not as long as we absolutely agree, but that we have a lack of opposition over the content – but above all what seems to us to be much more important is that it is transferred to this plenary debate on pediatrics. And we said that on some contents we could simply not express opposition because always, when we intervene in relation to public health, that not in general to sanitation, we want to remember that it is difficult to intervene, you can give global answers, if we do not enter the model, that it is obviously not in which the present motion enters; model that means private enterprises that enter to manage what is public, public services that manage private enterprises and public spaces that are used for health enterprises, that have a lot of businesses and few health services. This has created a reality in the country of confusion of interests, of models of rotating doors, of models facilitating corruption and above all a transfer, or a transit, or a transfer, of public resources, which are collected, of all, to private interests. Beyond that we are aware that in the matter of days we will not have a public health 100_per_cent public as to the title, he managed it and provided it, but we also want to move in relation to the content of the present motion that there are some elements that could be placed on the table, as to the concreteness that it does not have, that would make the same young man more effective. For one band, insist on presupposition – we suppose that it was more likely to reach an agreement and therefore not to refer to which exact reversal or percentage of reversal – and, for the other, that it is said in an indirect way, but it is not stated in a direct way, is that it is impossible to improve pediatrics if we do not talk about the conditions of the workers and the workers who are effective fans. It's spoken in a tangential way, it's spoken in an indirect way, and even so it's placed on top of the table, but it didn't just materialize how we would change those working conditions of the workers and the workers, not only of the meths, but of the conjunction of the workers and the workers of the public health, who are looking for us pediatric services.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.269.0	Thank you, Congressman. And now it's finally the turn to pronounce on Mr Santi Rodriguez's statements.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.270.0	Thank you, President. In relation to the papers, the Junts for Catalonia, Esquerra Republicana and Grupo de Ciutadans have presented papers. They have been basically incorporated into the text all of them. I think there are two Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left that have not been incorporated, and also some other transaction together with that of Ciutadans. And Mr. Riera said that this young man looked like an oasis. Allow 'em to deny it. In any case, the oasis was a mirage; not today, always. And I think it's important in relation to this young man, because precisely you, the groups that support the government, abstain in the two points that are nuclear of this young man, and that are very elementary, that is to say, "The replacement of pediatricians for family meths is conjunctural, cannot be structural. And you in relation to this point are abstaining. And that worries us. And the second point where they abstain is what you say at least every primary care team – I repeat, primary care team; I'm not talking about primary care centers, but primary care team – I'm being led by a pediatrician. According to the department, nine – nine are missing. What are we talking about? Of €500,000 in a budget of €25.000 million? And that's not enough to guarantee it? And that's not the way to vote for it, is it? So that's what concerns us, that for you it may seem like an oasis, to say: "Yes; this is a magnificent statement of intentions, but we, we support the Government, and the Government will continue to ours, and therefore we will continue to substitute pediatricians for family doctors. And this is not the will of this young man. Therefore, I would appreciate it if, in the time remaining until the vote on this one, I had reconsidered and could give support not only to the young man, but could do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.271.0	Thank you. We're calling it a vote. Is there a separate request for a vote? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.272.0	Separate vote, please, from points 3 and 4, which can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.273.0	Three and four. Any other separate voting petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Let's start the vote, please, Members, Members. We will vote first points 3 and 4 together and after the rest of the vote. The vote on points 3 and 4 begins. Points 3 and 4 were approved by 67 votes in favour, against and 60 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved unanimously; 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the balance of a year of political inaction]] [[302-00078/12]] Let us now turn to the next Member, on the next item on the order of the day, who is the Member subsequent to the question to the Government on the balance of a year of political inaction, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.274.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Well, today I want to start with a question for all Members, but especially for those who support the government. Let us imagine that tomorrow's elections will be held here in the Parliament of Catalonia. With what word would this legislature be summed up? Because the only word that comes to my mind is 'loss, waste of time and opportunity; loss of credibility, even before your own, and loss of scruples, although I think those have lost them a long time ago. You say you obey the people's command, and I ask myself: "What command and from what people? Because I assure you, of the people of Catalonia, no. Because the people of Catalonia are you, of course, but the people of Catalonia are also us; the people of Catalonia are also the 1,100,000 Catalans who made Citizens win the elections on December 21; the people of Catalonia are the patients who have been waiting months to make an intervention; they are the families who want their children to receive the same opportunities as the children of the families who are better economically located; they are also the thousands of autonomous people who each morning raise the blind of their business waiting for that day to the CDRs, for they do not give them to make a stop of those of the country, those CDRs to which you are leaving; the people of Catalonia are also the nineteen-thousand dependent Catalans who are waiting for their place of residence, they and their families; they are the officials who have been waiting for you for years to pay back the salaries that they have taken from them, eh? And they're tired of their excuses, excuses of bad payer, never better said. But you only see half of Catalonia. The people of Catalonia have multiple sensitivities and ideologies, and you only understand one, yours, and want to impose it; that is the only way to explain what you are doing. Are you aware of the suffocating climate you are putting everyone under with your obsession to flood everything with yellow bonds? The TSJ told him, the Ombudsman told him – they didn't listen to each other – he also told him more than half of Catalonia, but, of course, it's those Catalans that you ignore day after day. They've had to force the election board, and not content with that, send the syndic here to make a paripé, and today they get off the sleeve of another equally partisan bond. Man, but it's already good – it's already good – that buildings are not..., public buildings are not, so, I don't know, particular announcement board of separatism where you can hang whatever you want. It's just a shame. Neither during the election period nor outside of it. Stop trying to exclude millions of Catalans from the institutions. The same with this Parliament, that you close and open every time it comes to you, right? You fill your mouth by talking about the people's mandate; for, look, the people's mandate is expressed here in this Parliament, but you prevent it every time you want. And not only that, they also try to supplant it by creating exclusively separatist chiringuitos, where no one disagrees, where no one tells them what I'm telling them today. That is what you aspire to, to silence more than half of Catalonia. They don't like democratic parliaments, it's made clear, because you don't tolerate the discrepancy, you don't want to have to be accountable to anyone, and that's why you make up those little bars where you continue to carry out the separatist coup. And in the meantime, here, the disgovernment, the paralysis, that is, the blocked legislative action. In one year they have made four laws – four laws – which is that I have left my fingers. Even the budget law hasn't brought in. Now yes, that's right; defach to try to raise the salary, that's what they've had. That's a big mouth. They have more than thirty public bodies whose members have the expired mandate, such as the syndic of heavyweights, who has come here, although, well, that I understand, because, of course, how are you going to renew, huh? , to one of the greatest separatist propaganda teachers they have; no, man, no. And speaking of separatist propaganda, of course, TV3, right? That television that we pay all Catalans but that obviates millions of Catalans or, when not, directly insults them, huh? ; that television that is dedicated to broadcasting its mantras, that is dedicated to interviewing those convicted of terrorism as if they were media stars, that television. For that you do have resources. Now, for the problems of Catalans, no, they don't even change there. Eleven_ thousand dependents have died in Catalonia waiting to receive their help; there is an average of five years to wait for a place of residence; they owe 41_million_euro to those dependent families, who have had to put their money on them. Catalonia, the autonomous community with the worst waiting lists in health. One_of_each_four children in Catalonia is in poverty. The LGTBiphobic attacks – told by my colleague Naomi of the Street this morning – have doubled in the last few months. Yesterday we also knew that foreign investment has fallen by 12_per_cent in Catalonia. In the rest of Spain it has grown by 70_per_cent; here it has fallen, eh? , 12_per_cent. So, with this x-ray that, I insist, is done, I ask you again: with what word would you summarize this legislature? If you show again today that the only thing that moves you is to continue to divide Catalans and continue with your baton, which has done so much damage to Catalonia, the words to define this legislature will be « indecency and « irresponsibility. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.275.0	To defend the papers presented, the first word is the deputy of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.276.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, we have had occasion to attend a monitoring session in which a part of the debate that we could hold on this motion was taking place; we have also seen some interpellations, different groups, from our own group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, or the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, which were also trying to make an analysis, a diagnosis of what we carry as a legislature. I think that, having attended all the debates planned, and not yet to the totality of what we are having now, we can conclude that the diagnosis of practically the whole chamber is quite conclosing, quite coincidental, for all that. That is to say, the reasons for the toilets that each one addresses to the Government of the Government of Catalonia are different; the CUP - Creed Constituent because it finds that the steps given for the Government in the proposals it announced to constitute have been between shy and non-existent, and others because they find that it went too far in trying to proceed with these proposals that were announced. We think there's a lot more rhetoric in which the government says there's no concrete reality, and in this sense, let's just say, we can match more surely the diagnosis made by the CUP than Ciutadans does, right? , which has the thesis that an attempt to produce a unilateral secession is still on the march, which seems to us that it is not exactly what we are witnessing. But there is a declared political intention, and in the speeches it is maintained thus, to bring the country at a new time, it is said, in which it is possible to produce a unilateral secession. And we can't just agree, but it seems to us that it's inappropriate for any responsible government, to have the political project that I have, to try to recidivise something that we have just found to be a mistake, which causes a political and social division in Catalonia and damage to the institutions of the country as remarkable, as it is to attempt a unilateral secession. Go on, I think I could continue to argue with respect, but the months that have preceded us and have had us so far here I think they support this position sufficiently. The hard part of all this, however, is making the balance of the legislature – that you may never have deserved the name less as on this occasion, because to legislate more quickly legislation – is that all the fold ends up leading us to a situation of institutional paralysis, of blocking institutions, not just the legislation, but the same execution. I believe that the lack of momentum of the execution, the lack of political project of the execution is manifest. We have seen it in the answers of President Torra himself to the questions at the control session, they must return, let's say, to a series of common places so many times that at the end they lose, I believe, all power, all heard, if they had ever had much. And we have also seen this in the question that has been made to the Government by our parliamentary group, in which, with all due respect, we have to tell Councillor Bosch that he has had problems filling the time that a Councillor has to answer an inquiry explaining the government's action, right? Look, frankly, the unilateral secession project has failed; it is a finding. The political project of the current Government of the Generality is simply non-existent; it has no viability, the intention to repeat a project that just a few months ago has failed. And we don't notice any scam in the government to throw other things in the way; in fact, I'm missing them. Anything we say to him that has more or less an echo in what is said by the politics of the while, therefore, it is missing, seems to him to be a minute's sin. It doesn't seem like us. And, therefore, it seems to us that, as has been said quite rightly in previous debates, this legislature is exhausted – it is exhausted – and, therefore, as soon as possible, a new political project on the table or the possibility for Catalans and Catalans to decide. But to the proposed group of the initiative deixi'mdir-li, in the last seconds that I have of the intervention, that does not counter to other political projects. It is to say, to bend the cartoons of the man announce and to go tossing a dient skeleton: "Pend -in, sinners, it is not a political project. Another political project has to be put on the table, which can be taken over by a large majority of Catalonian citizens, whether or not they think of it as a single, second or not, with their vote what the own political party or the own coalition proposes. Because here it's about referring bridges, referring to basic consensus...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.277.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.278.0	...and it's not pulling our plates for the head like we're going to get out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.279.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs. Andrea Levy has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.280.0	Well, the truth is that..., the motion presented by the Citizens Group, we could say that it is a journalistic chronicle: what comes to do is to tell a situation, to put the point by point, but it does not bring more than a mere account of the panoramic of the facts in which we find ourselves. You are very good policy observers; it is a pity that, when you have the opportunity to take action and present yourself to an investiture, you decline that option and sit in the seats. I thank the Citizens' Group for having accepted the amendment of this parliamentary subgroup, in which we believed it was important that it should be made clear that what makes sense to the legislature, and that is the presentation of budgets by the Government, has not been done; not even this Government has been able to present the budgets in the parliamentary chamber. Therefore, he not only realizes the manifest inactivity..., well, parliamentary inactivity, because activity on the balcony of the Palau de la Generalitat..., we see them very busy, banner up, banner down, but what is the activity in this parliamentary chamber, of course, is practically nil, and the same in government action. I repeat, thank you for adding this point, and with this intervention I bid farewell until the next plenary session. [[Rialles.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.281.0	Thank you, Congresswoman; in any case, before we finish the debate and vote on this motion. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, Ms Susana Segovia has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.282.0	Yes; thank you very much. We'll see you at your own Ple with the Popular Party MP; it'll be a pleasure. [[Rialles.]] "Regrets, "condemns, "rejects, "reproves, "condemns, "condemns, "condemns, "reproves, "reproves, "condemns, "reproves, "reproves: this is the motion of Ciutadans. Another time. The two motions, which we have made before, which my partner Lucas Ferro has made, begin practically the same; they must have a staff: condemn what is going on, reject what is going on, recondemn what is going on... They do not leave here. Because what is clear is that they are not seeking complicity or support for anything; they, there with their song and with their usual logic – always, always – stand against everything and put everyone against themselves. The other time we tried to do papers, we tried to be a little constructive, folded. Given the answer, we didn't get it; so we haven't even tried. We think that in a few points they seem to be picking up a little bit of the trick, so that with five tones and attitudes they can do nothing more than stand alone – sometimes with the PP, but not always – and we suppose that some time, little by little, they will be something more than thirty-six Members in this Parliament who make blows, take photocopies in colors, but little more. Indeed, the government does not rule, we are absolutely in agreement. We know, most Members of this House know, the street knows, the same government as Torra-Aragonès. Indeed, they have not presented assumptions, they have not been able to seek agreements to hold the supports; they do not return the debt to the assemblies, as also the movement of Ciutadans backs; they do not take advantage of institutional spaces or coordination, and more to the impulse of organs than no one knows well what they are doing, nor for what they serve, neither how much they cost, nor what they represent, these organs for the self-government of Catalonia. The government of Torra and Aragones, we agree, is quite useless this year to solve the real problems of most Catalans and Catalans. For the time being, they do not have a question of trust, which would be the least they should do to prove that they continue to have the confidence of this chamber; but neither do they. It is as useless as the opposition that Ciutadans makes as the first group of the opposition of this Parliament. We wear more than a year out, and they just prove that it's useless to be a game in this room that wins a few elections but doesn't serve it for nothing. And it is that we have had an example in the previous motion: the People's Party has been able to draw a motion on a concrete issue that has had the support of most of this chamber, because they have spoken and have come out of the loop. So even the People's Party has given them a lesson that is parliamentary practice. Citizens continue with this logic of being the anti-proceeding party, of being the party of the process, of being the party that feeds on the process, the party of the ball in the wing and the big one in the prop. They do one thing to the Parliament of Catalonia and another to Madrid, they say that they worry about the real problems of the people and they pose it to their youth, when they carry months – months – blocking social initiatives at the table of the Congress, making the clamp with the People's Party, months, and we can count for drawing the initiatives that have been blocked. They accuse the independence of just talking about the national issue, but most of the motions that they bring here..., we have already commented before: greeting and the process, education and the process, centres of attention to minors and the process, feminism and the process. They are the core party of the process, because they consider that until now the process has given them good results, because surely the process would not be what is not Ciutadans and Ciutadans would not be what is not the process. They accuse independence of instrumentalizing institutions, and that's what they do here, converting this Parliament, day after day, just into a television set. But it is that they even arrive at points that make so much contradiction..., that they are the two points that we consider most scandalous, such as point 17: "Condemn filtering into the social networks of the photograph of the personal data of the Justice Administration's letter, Mrs Montserrat del Toro, as well as the heavy insults that he has refused after having completed his duty to give testimony before the courts for the facts of his acquaintance. We agree with that, to condemn it. What they seem to not remember is the shameful spectacle that Ciutadans gave – Mr. Rivera and Mrs. Arrimadas – when she was appointed for Twitter new teachers of Palau School, of Sant Andreu de la Barca, for indoctrination supposed to the Catalan classrooms. You see the confrontation of conflict and incoherence. But it is that, moreover, they urge the Government of the Generality to exercise executive power to avoid the confrontation between Catalans and to give priority to the real and social problems that exist. That, lords and lords of Ciutadans...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.283.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.284.0	... it's cynicism, and more. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.285.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the return of Mrs Maria Sirvent's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.286.0	Yes, with this motion presented today for Ciutadans, we see that other motions that have been tabled by the other parliamentary groups and the questions that have been asked in this plenary, and in this plenary in concrete terms, there is a consensus on the part of all parliamentary groups that they do not support the government that this government does not govern, that this government does not believe its own government action and that the desertion of councillors is a sign more than this government is exhausted, just as this legislature does. This opens the door to the political opportunism of Ciutadans, which in a single motion has said: « chiringuitos, « coup d'état, « paralysis, « blockade, « neutrality, « yellow ties, « separatist propaganda, « TV3, « real problems of Catalans, « division of Catalans... In other words, I think I can no longer follow. And so we won't get into this game, we won't intervene, and we won't take a stand on the points of the motion, because it's because he didn't explain it either; he's dedicated himself to doing something else on his turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.287.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.288.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, well, we are talking about a young man talking about inaction, and listening to the Member who just presented it, so..., and in the previous question he was talking about hospitals, guaranteed income, dependence, TAC at Reus and all, he was talking about the other day... So, well, we had a certain interest; we were looking at the young man and he was not talking about hospitals, neither the TAC, nor the schools, nor the dependency, nor the guaranteed income, no. What are you talking about? From CDRs, from blow to democracy, from separatists..., from the one who knows how to talk, from the monotheme – from the monotheme. It's that you don't know how to talk about anything else; and if you don't exist, they make it up, and they make a speech that's more or less nice, and after what they talk about? : CDRs, hits, I don't know what and I don't know how many. Well, so that's what we have, which is what Citizens always do. So what do we have? So great successes. First point: 'Parliament closed. Well, one day in March, we'll wear it all the way today. What have we done? Four ponies, three table meetings, a board of spokespersons, twenty-i-four committee meetings, three intergroups, two full... closed of what? But if we're working! Perhaps it is you who do not see things, but the rest of the Members are working, and we encourage you to come and we encourage you to participate and we encourage you to do parliamentary initiatives, which I must congratulate for this, because the last reason you presented was exactly the same as you presented to the Senate, without changing a way; as at the moment, this is new, and therefore it has been specifically thought for the Parliament of Catalonia. You're talking about separatist propaganda. False, too. Where's the separatist propaganda? There isn't – there isn't. But you try, then, this speech to lie. « Subplant institutions. No, listen, the institution is the Parliament of Catalonia and there is an independent majority, which was voted by Catalans and Catalans on 21st December. This is the institution, here are the majorities that conform freely from the deputies and here we make the political debates. « Increase the government's subs, another point. It's fake, no one wants to increase the government's subs. « Resources to the media, the mantra has come out again. Why do you want? So shut down TV3, you know that. Yes, man, yes, you'd want to ban, so, all public media probably, lock TV3, lock all resources that are invested in TV3, and I suppose leaving media more neutral, like ABC, that on the day of reflection he does an interview with his candidate. I suppose this is the middleman model, isn't it? , and of plurality communicative policy that you understand. « Illustrative paralysis. Well, there are seven bills of law going on, fifty-four proposals of law coming in, twelve decrees validated. No paralysis. You must participate in the ponies, in the projects of law, but, in fi, 54, 7, 12... in fi. Another point that is especially fun, which says: "We condemn the government for not renewing the bodies that depend on Parliament. But it is up to Parliament, Mrs Roldán, to decide on their votes. If it's you, the ones who blocked it, because they say that now they weren't interested, electorally, in reaching agreements with the independenceists! If it's you! You should do a point to condemn Ciutadans's attitude, to block the renewal of the bodies that depend on the Parliament of Catalonia, because they depend on the Parliament of Catalonia, no more! So, if they want to, so we sit down; the Speaker of Parliament summoned all the group presidents, and we were talking about it. What else? « Thousands of companies that left. In this, as there was a specific motion before, I no longer enter, but, finally, we closed 2017 with an increase of the '1,5_per_cent of societies. « Inaction of the CDRs, roadblocks, toll lifting... Well, therefore, the longest were during 155. He is curious – he is curious – because the longest..., so he was running the Ministry of the Interior, with the permissive attitudes of the CDRs. « Don't show up at the top. Last week, five directors-general, three advisors, a senior officer and a secretary-general appeared here; only last week. Well, another lie. It's that the whole place is a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a fake-it's a It is their reality, that they would like you to pass, but it does not happen, that it has nothing to do with reality. It's his propaganda, which you're used to, because he buys them yarn by the side, but then, with reality, so to speak, it does diverge enough. So, in the end, it's the chiringuitos and the weeds, isn't it? That too, therefore, is one of the other chapters that you possess. And I would like to ask you specifically for Mrs. Eva Parera, who is the spokesperson for her candidacy to the Barcelona Assembly, by Manuel Valls, who is charging more than a hundred_ thousand euros in the year and who is still in charge of her CAC, who is looking for neutrality in the political campaign for Ciutadans. What's this? Is that your weeds? Are they chiringuites? What are they? [[Greetings.]] Home, go! Please! Look, you only know how to fight, you only want to win, you – and they have said – are the most useless party in Catalan politics. Because you actually voted for many people, many Catalans and probably Catalans with the illusion that they did something. And what have they done? Res. Trying to pick up, trying to argue, trying to put up a lot, and maybe try that some day the whole opposition we can't talk about in this faristol. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.289.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.290.0	Well, president, councillors, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Citizens present a new movement that far exceeds the pre-electoral tics that we all could have had some time. Mrs. Roldán, today this is a reminder, it's the turmix shredding pears and apples all over the pill, it's a rattlesnake with all the flavors of demagogy. There's all of them. At the 1st point, it's up to President Torrent. On the 2nd, the law firms are flying to the execution, from A to Z, all of them. At 3, the classic fugitive from justice, a bestseller that we will remind you of the night of the Europeans. On the 4th they talk about sub-publics, as if the deputies of Ciutadans coming from franc to Parliament, as if the Spanish ministers working for love of art – which is easy to make demagogic, which is easy – as if the largest of the sub-publics were not the monarchy. At point 6, public media always serves obscure interests. And go fend, a no stop until point 20, a misrepresentation. They touch everything, they cut everything. This time, I admit, it's not a comma, it's not a point, we represent two opposing ways of hearing the world, and, listen'm, it's not a re – it's not a re –: Catalonia asking permission for everything, the Catalonia region of the northeastern Spain, or a full Catalonia, a Catalonia born, that will be if its people decide. You're parole, and we're parole. You are derailed from the court, you are assaulted by coexistence, you have invented bar parliamentarianism, you are the no, and, we, you see for where, we are the yes. You get loops, ban words, colors – you absolutely forbid everything, there is no reason to ban – you censor, deny, and we are the belief in people, in a strong and creative civil society, able to open your arms to solidarity when it touches. Together for Catalonia is the verb « transform, Ciutadans is the por al change. You're young in the picture, it's true; at the campaign spot you're young, very young, and smiling, but you're very old in ideas. You are the past century, the old, fallen and tired State, the State that does not accept images in a shameless judgment to the Supreme, in full 21st century. You see an open door and run away. We are the open door and the policy ready to set up its table. We are Catalonia that brings one hundred and a thousand people to Madrid with a smile asking for a dialog and solutions and paper on the ground. And you're the ones who say we weren't sharing and thank you and make fun of it, and make sure it wasn't for nothing and that no one talks about it, and now, in a different way, they're going to spend half a year talking about it, obsessed, denying the hand of dissipation. In a reasonable world – in a reasonable world – we would talk about the action of the Government, instead of judging it without regard to proportionality or measure. But to you reality doesn't fit them, reality hates them, and they end up post-truthed. For the Ciutadans Group, parliamentary activity is a schiclet, it's a way to build fake relationships, and they do it very well, but Catalonia is not a fake one. Catalonia is a diverse society, Catalonia is a country that lives in the system of its legitimate national aspirations, in the calculated of the opportunities of its people, and you are unable to admit it. That is why they are unable to bring to this Parliament a single idea of Catalonia that follows for Catalonia, that knows Catalonia, that better Catalonia, that comes from Catalonia. Citizens is, Mrs. Roldán, a factory of topics. You present many motions, it is true, but present them for no debate. They use their words, if Catalonia fails, if Catalonia has a problem, they are the consequences of the repression and the application of 155, because 155 year ago against Catalonia, against its institutions and, therefore, against its people. Don't be fooled: Catalonia's problem is the Spanish political class, a generation of policies that have to go to the polls, because it has to go to the truth. You know what I'm saying? I'm talking, please, I'm talking about Catalonia. They do politics, oblivion the jutjats. Not so many motions cheat, pro-repression, more dialogue and, as Mrs. Roldán said, effectively, decency and responsibility. We're waiting for them. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.291.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers has the word, now, Mrs Lorena Roldán another time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.292.0	Yes; thank you, President. Let's see, Mrs. Levy, the truth is that you are really good analysts, yes, yes; so much, that you stuck a bat here on December 21st, that you have four seats and prevented the sum of constitutionalism in Catalonia. That's what it's like to be a good analyst. Come on, please! It's just, really... And the same goes for the PSC, which says that you do not see this scenario that we put forward in this motion. For that is what has happened in the last forty years in Catalonia, which you have not seen the stage: you saying that nothing was happening here, that here everything was normal, until the 6th and 7th these gentlemen struck democracy in Parliament. And you now follow the same thing again, with normality, because you are interested. It's just that it's a shame – it's a shame. We are where we are because you insist on denying what is happening in Catalonia. I don't know where we're going with this. More stuff. Mrs. Sirvent..., I don't know, I, if you want, next time, I call you, when I have to make the motion, and you tell me what words I can say and what words I can't, because since you have so many problems with what I say... Just like Mrs. Segovia, isn't she? That it bothers you that I put in the motion 'condemn and'reject'. No, if you like, I applaud and claudic, as you do with the separatists, who are the crutch of separatism. [[applause]] You're right, aren't If you want, we'll do that. And you talk to me, you told me – it's always very funny – that we're alone. That we're alone, with 1,100,000 Catalans behind us? Blessed loneliness! You, you who are less every day, who have stayed in six, are not to speak, are not to speak of loneliness. More stuff. Congressman Gómez, with the fake news... well, if you live in a perpetual fake news, it's that you're the least suitable to give lessons. To Mr Pujol, too, who says: "We are the ones who have led a hundred and a thousand people smiling at Madrid, so I say the same: we are the ones who have led 1,100,000 Catalans smiling at the polls, and that is what you cannot stand [[applause]] – that's what you can't stand. Let's get to work. To Mr. Torra, the only thing that worries Mr. Torra is not health, it's not education, it's not dependence, it's knowing what bond I put, whether I put yellow or I put white. It's a shame. Let's get to work now. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.293.0	We've called a vote... tell me, Mr. Pedret, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.294.0	For two things: separate votes and contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.295.0	First the separate votes, and then the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.296.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.297.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.298.0	Ask for a separate vote from points 3, 13 and 19, which can form a block for our part, eh? And, for what he does to the contradictions, tell Mrs Roldán that in a very brief intervention he managed to use two logical faults, which he has a certain merit. The first, the ballman, is to answer an argument that we haven't given at any time. And in the second, a populum argument, huh? , which is not just, logically, an invalid argument, but it is more dangerous to do politically. I have had many occasions to say 'heal Mr. Carrizosa', when you boast of your electoral support and bring him back an alleged electoral support to the PSC. This goes and goes into politics – go and see. They're more modest. On April 28th, we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.299.0	Lady Levy, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.300.0	Yes, by allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.301.0	Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.302.0	Look, I don't know if I'm gonna be good or bad analyst. What I know for sure is that I won't be found on the Catalan Way for independence. Thank you. [[Remove from your eyes, laugh and clap. Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.303.0	Mrs. Segovia... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Calm down, calm down... it's the last point, yes, of today... calm down... [[Pause.]] Mrs. Segovia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.304.0	Yes, by separate votes and by allusions. [[The remorse of the eyes and the rialles persist.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.305.0	Wait a minute, now, when...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.306.0	I'm in no hurry. We had a good rapport. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.307.0	When the vagina is finished, Mrs. Segovia will continue. [[Pause.]] Yeah? Mrs. Segovia, come in.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.308.0	Yes, for a separate vote on points 8, 9, 10, 16, 17, 18, 21...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.309.0	In a block?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.310.0	Yeah, these can...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.311.0	If you can repeat me, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.312.0	8, 9, 10, 16, 17, 18 and 21.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.313.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.314.0	I for allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.315.0	Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.316.0	When I speak of loneliness, I speak of when all the red lights and green spatters of yours come to most of the motions and initiations presented to this House.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.317.0	All right. Some petition to... [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Roldan?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.318.0	Yes, President, for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.319.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.320.0	Yes, by Mrs. Levy's allusions. Look, yes, in the Catalan Way, like many officials who have to leave here at the minute of silence, because, if not, they have already pointed them out. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Do you know where you'll never see me, Mrs. Levy? I'm done. Do you know where you'll never see me? [[Voice remorse and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.321.0	Members...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.322.0	I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.323.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.324.0	I'm done, I'm done, Mr. Torrent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.325.0	One moment – one moment, one moment –, Mrs. Roldán. [[Pause.]] Mr. Ferro..., cry to order. That's right. Way to go! [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Iron, another time? Shall I cry again, second time, to order? Way to go! [[Pause.]] Say, Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.326.0	Thank you, President. Do you know where you'll never see me, Mrs. Levy? Dealing with the nationalists, as you did, who sold us to separatism. You'll never see me there. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-21-2702.327.0	Put your vote on. Separate votes have been called. One block: 3, 13 and 19... [[Widow's remorse.]] So that in the callin, they won't go on, and until they don't go on, they won't end. [[Pause.]] I'm trying to explain the blocks we're voting on. They then ask that the voting points should not be clarified, but if they do not listen, it is impossible. Points 3, 13 and 19, of one band; 8, 9, 10, 16, 17, 18 and 21 of the other. Yeah? [[Pause.]] No more separate voting petition, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. Let's vote first on block 3, 13 and 19. The vote begins. Points 3, 13 and 19 were rejected by 38 votes to 71, with 17 abstentions. We now vote on the block of points 8, 9, 10, 16, 17, 18 and 21. The vote begins. Points 8, 9, 10, 16, 17, 18 and 21 are rejected by 61 votes to 64, with 1 abstention. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Now yes, we've voted all the motions, let's finish here. And the session goes up.
