ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Vagina occupying their respective escons, please. Let's start the session. A session in which there is a single point of the order of the day, which is the procedure for appointing a senator to represent the Government of Catalonia to the Senate. [[Greetings to a new Member]] In the first place, and before passing, just at this point, I would like to welcome the new Member of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Daniel Serrano Coronado, who joins the plenary sessions today. Therefore, welcome, MP, to the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Procedure for appointing a Senator to represent the Generality in the Senate]] [[280-00002/12]] We say that the only item on the order of the day is this specific session, in which the debate is held and the procedure for appointing a senator to represent the Generality to the Senate is to be voted on, in view of the vacancy resulting from the resignation of Mr. José Montilla and Mr. Aguilera, of the proposed May 8th. In accordance with Articles 4.5, 5.1 and 8 of Law 6/2010, of the procedure for appointing senators representing the Generality to the Senate, in accordance with Article 174 of the Rules, the procedure, in the event of a vacancy, shall be initiated by resolution of the Presidency and on the proposal of the same group as the person who caused the vacancy. As the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress presented, after the resignation of the very Honourable Mr José Montilla and Mr Aguilera, the candidacy of Mr Miquel Iceta and Mr Llorens; as well as the fact that the Committee on the Status of Deputies has ruled that it does not contest any cause of ineligibility, and having declared the candidate formally that, if he is elected, he will accept the position, we shall proceed to the vote of this designation. In this sense, I would remind you that, since a proposal is closed to a vote, Article 5.1 of Law 6/2010 regulates, and not an election, votes that are in favour, against or abstentions. Before proceeding to the voting procedure, I would also like to say that the Bureau, in accordance with Rule 86.1 of the Rules of Procedure, and jointly in agreement with the Board of Spokesmen, has agreed to open a round of interventions by the parliamentary groups in favour of or against the topic which is the subject of a five-minute space for parliamentary groups; two minutes and a half, the sub-groups. Once this debate is taken, we will proceed to the vote after the roll-call vote, which will be a secret ballot, which will be made through the electronic and secret voting procedure. Let us therefore proceed to the debate, beginning, by this order, from minor to greater representation of parliamentary groups, as stipulated at the recently held Board of Spokesmen. I, therefore, began, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Alejandro Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.2.0	Thank you very much, President. On October 3, 2018, Mr.Iceta reproached you for the fact that you, in our view, had broken constitutional unity; you had broken what was also called the spirit of September 6 and 7, and a strategy of distension was initiated with separatism, which had immediate consequences: from one day to another and without a solution of continuity, Torra went on to provoke you tenderness and, instead, the constitutionalists became extreme right-wing from which to be rid – I quote textually. From that distension it had to emanate a dialogue, the dialogue of the axis Iceta-Junqueras, and from that dialogue we had to be able to arrive, it seemed, to a happy archadia, a spa of peace and love that would end the conflict that so many wounds has left open in the Catalans in recent times. It should be said that the Catalans massively supported this strategy in the last elections, they believed. Just as it can be said that they punished in the ballot box those who warned us that we were facing a dialogue trap, that we cannot dialogue with the one who has no intention of dialogue. I myself, the day after the elections, pointed this out: we accepted the strength of the result, but I still thought that it would not happen for two years until we realized that this dialogue had no future. I was wrong: it has not taken two years, it has taken two weeks; two weeks it has taken separatism to demonstrate what dialogue is for them. It consists basically of blackmail, blackmail and blackmail. They have even been able to tell you that they had to release the imprisoned politicians so that you could be a senator. Now what, Mr. Iceta? Now what? What will he tell the hundreds of thousands of Catalans who believed him? What are you going to say to the hundreds of thousands of Catalans who tried to make them believe that the constitutionalists were the devil and that, instead, the separatists, the personified dialogue and goodwill? And you will be able to say, being naive: "At least, I have tried. Yes, at least he tried, but was it really worth breaking constitutional unity for this? Because that's what happened and what he did. You have broken constitutional unity for nothing, as shown today, for nothing. You can be very proud of what you have done in recent months in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.4.0	Today, the one who is put to the vote are three different questions, as at least. The first is whether Mr.Iceta will be representing the Government of Catalonia in the Spanish Senate. The second, if a representative of the Government of Catalonia ended up becoming the president of the Spanish Senate. And the third, if this Parliament, and indeed the exercise of self-government that still remains with us, much in mind, in Catalonia, ends subtly to what it decides at any time the direction of the PSOE. We have come forward before this vote or these votes where the representation of the Government of Catalonia was transferred to the Senate, which we do not have to send representatives. And we will obviously maintain this element of coherence with our political agenda. Besides, today what we're talking about is a certain person, a political representative. And about the political representative, we want to make some considerations. First, let us not forget that he was in favour of the application of 155 and that this week he came to remember that, if he has to reapply it, he will reapply it. [[Greetings.]] The second, we will not forget it either: that October 2017 went to heads of demonstration accompanied by the extreme right, which means whitening the fascism and the extreme right. [[Greetings.]] And the third, which we do not want to forget, is that, Mr.Iceta, and we give it with all respect, but also with political character, you represent what you have been, what you are and what you will continue to feel, until we finish, the 78th rule. And, obviously, I do not count on our votes, neither in the form of forbearance, nor in the form of self, to cosmify and regenerate the 78's rule. We think that what the people of Catalonia wanted to open down there is not to be closed down. And we also want to make a move to the Republic groups, for one band... and, for another band, also to Junts for Cat. Mirin, the Republican Group two years ago – or Republican Left – claimed that it would not be running for Spanish elections; the Junts per Cat Group, in its formula for presenting for Spanish elections, said it was going to block. And we want to think that this is going to keep not just for today's vote, but for a future; that is to say, a vote for the present and a vote for a future, because we would not understand from any of the ways that today is a vote and that, in a few weeks or months, the feeling of the vote is changed. We wouldn't understand it, and most of us wouldn't understand it, the independenceist, who would ask why. Of course, in a coherent exercise... our vote is [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] Today, tomorrow, for a future, because we consider that the institutions of the State...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.5.0	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.6.0	... in Spain we cannot find any resolution of the Catalan conflict..., suppresses our right of self-determination and does not guarantee social rights.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.7.0	Congressman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] Thank you. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.8.0	Yes, thank you, President. And good morning to all and to all. Today we are here to debate and to rule on what was until recently a simple parliamentary process and now it seems that it has become a matter of state or that it will decide the fate of Catalonia, and it is nothing other than the designation of Mr. Miquel Iceta as a senator for autonomous designation. As we all know, until now it was a simple process that did not generate major discussion; each parliamentary group chose the person it considered most suitable to occupy the charge and the rest of parliamentary groups, in general, ratified it. Now we find that the parliamentary groups, some parliamentary groups, are alluding to questions of ideological discrepancy and to the exceptional situation that Catalonia is patenting to justify a strategy of blockage. And I ask myself – I ask myself – if it's a year ago, when Junts for Catalonia and Republican Left voted in favour of Ms. Lorena Roldán [[applause]] Ciutadans spokesman was appointed as the autonomous senator, there was no ideological discrepancy or there was no exceptional situation. We are talking about the Ciutadans spokesman, which is the party, it is the political force that has been most profitable about the situation of the conflict in Catalonia; it is the leaders of the opposition and, instead of seeking solutions, what they are doing is putting more fire..., more gasoline into the fire, and who, moreover, have not shown any humanity towards prisoners and political pressure. And I also want to remind you of the date this lady was appointed an autonomous senator, which was May 4th of last year. I would like to remind you that the 4th of May of the past year Catalonia was still submissive to the illegal application of Article 155, which secreted our institutions and self-government, which had already made political arrests and pressures, and that there were already exiled policies. So I don't understand this situation right now that we're giving ourselves here. And it makes us think that it certainly has more to do with the electoral campaign of the municipal and European elections that we will have in two days than with a real ideological discrepancy, which, certainly, is not, nor is there an exceptional situation, which is obviously brutal, and we recognize it. Only two days ago, the heads of Junts' list for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana could not attend the TV3 debate, or today we knew that the prosecution is pursuing criminal organization at the top of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. Therefore, the exceptionality is brutal, but it is that a year ago we were under the application of 155. So I'd ask for consistency and responsibility and they'd abandon this gesticulation. And so we recognize that Mr. Iceta is covering himself with glory, it must be said, with the statements he is making about the application of 155 and comparing Catalonia with Sarajevo. These arsonist statements, Mr. Iceta, are not your own. From Mr. Borrell, we waited for them; from you, I must say not so much. And it is also true that the socialists have erred in form and time. And we see that he was already appointed to your Senate president when he was not yet part of that chamber. Therefore, much respect for institutions is not being demonstrated. And they've converted this theme... they've raised the fence to follow an election theme. And I also have to say that we are outraged and surprised, on the same side, that two political forces such as the Socialist Party and the Republican Left, which only fifteen days ago produced very good results in a general election, talking about dialogue, agreement and progress, are now troubled by the designation of an autonomous senator. Because, in the end, you were talking about dialog, but we saw that the first one you're making is blocking. I believe that, like society, like the country, we have much more important challenges to face, and today we ourselves have an educational gap across the country to shield public education, because since the Generality there are no answers. [[Greetings.]] We're consistent with what we've come up with so far. Now, it would also be good for the Socialist Party to understand that this new stage that has to be opened up, of dialogue, of distension and of agreement, has to give up symbolism. And it's very good that the President of the Senate follows a person from Catalonia, but if at last his actions and his words are not directed to a peaceful and democratic resolution of the conflict, and by the way of a reference, it's the same as he is from Catalonia, Soria or Murcia. I believe that Spain and Catalonia that we want must cease to be a slang... and become a country project. And that's why Spain has to advance in the recognition of what it is, that it's a plurinational state, and it has to recognize Catalonia as what it is, that it's a right-wing nation to decide. We have many challenges, as I have said, like the country; the first would be the democratic resolution of the conflict that we are painted by means of a referendum, and the second, as it could not be in any other way, also, a reform of the financing system, that is obsolete and that is unjust; also, obviously, we must shield the català, not only in Catalonia, but also in the State and Europe, and, finally, we must reform the Senate so that we really follow a territorial chamber. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the turn of Mrs. Eva Granados. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.10.0	Thank you, President. Members, today, with this vote, we decide between opening doors or closing them, between betting for solutions or continuing with the blockade. We have a vote today in which there is much more at stake than it may seem about the relations between Catalonia and the rest of Spain. And you're going to do it again: you're going to break rights again, you're going to blow bridges again. [[remorse of the voice]] They're going back against interest...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.11.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.12.0	...general widely voted on April 28th, which we voted dialect. First of all, the laws are jumping and violating the rights of minorities, one more time: to designate the person who replaces the socialist deputy is a right of the Socialist Group and to guarantee the proportionality of which we Catalans voted on 21 December is the obligation of this Parliament, it is a right and it is an indisputable obligation. And once again, the majority want to get rid of the minorities. It has always happened, the twenty-nine times we have ratified autonomous senators in this Parliament, ever since 1980. And the block that looks like it's going to be produced in a few minutes by independent groups will be violating phonemental rights, once more, of political representation. They are against the citizenry, they are against the more than 600,000 citizens who voted for socialist options and they are against my parliamentary group, and it will also alter the composition of the Spanish Senate. Gentlemen, this is not about confrontation or marketing; this is about representation, this is about replacing our representative, who represents Catalonia in the Senate. And voting against it is voting against the plurality of Catalonia. They are denying the representation of a Member on behalf of this Parliament. Once again, institutions, which are all of us and all of us represent, are downgraded. And I've done it in a convenient way. In the second place, what reason is there to veto Miquel Iceta now? Deputies of Esquerra and Junts for Catalonia, never in this Parliament, ever, had vetoed any party proposal proposed by a senator. More. You have given support to Members of the People's Party, such as Garcia Albiol, in 2016, and Members of Ciutadans last year; those of 155 permanent. And if with 155 in force, fugitives and others in pre-trial detention, you, like us, voted all the candidates, were independenceists, federalists or centralists, what has happened now? Today's not worth an apology. Vetar Miquel Iceta is going against the essence of politics, the dialect. Vetar Miquel Iceta is putting sticks to the wheels at a political exit. Vetar Miquel Iceta is to go against the coherence and courage that they so much preach, to hold to the head of the Senate a person who does not understand politics without the dialect and the consensus, a Catalanist person, a person who is ready to make bridges and willing to speak, a person who is a politician who has always respected all positions within the constitutional framework and who wants to reform, someone who can bring, and much, from the presidency of the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, the question that many Catalans are asking today is that Catalonia is trying to prevent Miquel Iceta from becoming president of the Senate. And I also carried them: what is Catalonia's gain to prevent Miquel Iceta from being president of the Senate? And, in the third place, be brave, be consistent and be responsible. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra and Juntes for Catalonia, at times like these is when the courage and willingness to solve problems, and not tacticalism, must be demonstrated. We are aware that there are elections to come, but many citizens would appreciate their responsibility. I'm done. It will be very easy to know if this parliamentary term ends successfully. And it will end successfully if we have a more united Catalonia. And if we don't all propose, Catalonia will be more divided. The division into blocks and its competence to see who is more pure brought us to September 6th and 7th, to the DUI and the veto to the assumptions and today to the replacement of the socialist senator. His dynamic of competition continues as Ara's editorial today says: "It would be naive to think that behind Esquerra's movement there is no electoral tactical component. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, it seems that we are not the only ones to see their bet on the dial. And its convenience is a lack of respect for the citizens of Catalonia; it is such a basic resource that it makes its voters laugh. In October 2017 Miquel Iceta did [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] everything he knew to avoid getting to the situation where we are today and from this cliff...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.13.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.14.0	... – I finish, President – asked all of us what we could do for the unity of Catalan society. That asked Miquel Iceta for 2017 here. The question is still open. And now it's time to be brave...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.15.0	Congresswoman!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.16.0	...and to be coherent. Catalonia doesn't deserve... Catalonia doesn't deserve it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Sergi Sabrià. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.18.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies. As we announced on the first day, convinced that they have made it absolutely inevitable, Esquerra today says no. They tried to subtly subtly the Catalan institutions another time. They claim that the Parliament is subordinated, that the claudical deputies are subordinated to the design of Pedro Sánchez, to the strategy of the PSOE, to a division of seats and posts, and to an electoral strategy. And that's why we're not going through it or going through it. Our "is not round and sharp, and it is counterposed to some movements – theirs – that are very bad. Our "no today has been inevitable. In fact, the fundraiser is certainly not from now on, nor much less of parliamentary courtesy. In the last step, the last week's, it's true, they corrupted the forms. The appointment of senators, always, as everyone has explained, had been made with consent, but they wanted to impose it with the help of headlines. And this Parliament does not vote headlines. Especially if they pretend that the day to day of this Parliament is a normality. Far more than reality: we are in an undeniably exceptional situation. The Esquerra's no, so today I'm looking for his own, and in bulk, convinced. I'm not just for shapes. And don't talk to us about courtesy. Where's the courtesy of those MPs who are in jail? They were escho's company, yours, too. Where is the courtesy of those who have shared Scotland, parliamentary bargains, complicity in the past? Where is courtesy with the families of prisoners and exiles? Get up and look at them in the eyes, at families that kick? So high was the political cost that vanquished manhood? Where was the parliamentary courtesy – and I think we have to say today – when they threatened not to vote for an intervener or senator if they were accused of October 1st? And this vote, at last, didn't happen, this circumstance didn't happen. But the threat, was it or was it not? Where was the parliamentary courtesy, then? Of all these months of darkness, of shame, we have not after many things. One, cabdal, that we will only advance as a society when the honest dialog defeats electoral tactics. This will not work with chants, tell us to vote for assumptions because, if not, the extreme right will come. This will not work with Misters Marshalls, coming to Barcelona to change the name of the airport. This will not change with a new president of the Senate who is Catalan. We do not accept any paternalistic chants for supposed parliamentary courtesy. Again, now, the key element was back to being the dialog all the time. The offer, the one from Esquerra, which we always keep on the table. Because, as the most faithful member of Catalonia, we will never give up talking to everyone. Flag dialog. The same dialog that you didn't keep when you were trembling for some troubles in Columbus. The dialog you wanted to dynamite the last few days, when Mr.Iceta defended another time apply 155, without any mania, just like Ciutadans, just like the PP, just like Vox. The dialog that you blink every time you open the state's attorney's mouth or when the PSOE debates political prisoners like Oriol Junqueras, before yesterday. The dialog that they dodge from the motion of censure and that they also deny now, after the result of April 28. Neither your repeated doorknobs, nor the emotional chantings by party figures, nor electoralism will make us say it. Nor the political threats. Consequences of what, Mrs. Granados? What will make this difficult, not today? What are we going to pick up, sow? The hill of 155 is his. So now don't threaten us, Mr. Iceta. We want to talk about everything, and we'll stick to it. You're the one who wants it all, and always. How many more threats do we face, not to make him president of the Senate? Our friends are in prison, I'll call you back, to make a reference. Togaes apply revenge in the form of bonds. I don't know what the more consequence they imagine. While ruminant, we persist in the dialect, in building a republic, in advancing the country. Today, the band of headlines, he missed votes. And ours won't have them. I of lessons of courtesy [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , of parliamentarianism...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.19.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.20.0	...of lessons of dignity, to us, chap. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.22.0	Thank you very much, President. President of the Generality, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies, first place, begin by showing the solidarity of our parliamentary group with the President of the Generality, President Torra, who yesterday appeared to declare to the Superior Court of Justice of Catalonia [[applause]] as well as all the members... of the 13th Jutjat, who saw how they were growing... and now they're persecuting themselves for criminal organization. We see that repression continues, grows and is noted to Catalonia, governments the People's Party or governments the Socialist Party. Mr. Iceta, we confirm that no, and not in terms of form; politics are also in terms of form and form. Today we want to talk about institutional respect for the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia; we want to talk about respect for politics, dialogue and negotiation, and we want to talk about parliamentary courtesy. No doubt that the PSC is close to a senator, no doubt that the PSC has the right to replace its senator, but no one can put in doubt that it is close to the Parliament of Catalonia approving who is the senator, or not. In this sense, we want to talk about parliamentary sovereignty. Mr. Iceta, you're very used to Madrid coming and going, and if you don't like it: "The Constitutional Court will fix me. So no, look, we're not about 155, we're not about Madrid hand and Madrid imposes; we're about 135, which means democracy, which means the outcome of 21 December, which means Members of this Parliament who can't exercise their political rights. And with his attitude during these days we have seen a little more, regrettably, how the PSC wanted to reapply the parliamentary intrusion of 155. Not close to the Parliament of Catalonia decide who is the President of the Senate – not close to the Parliament of Catalonia decide who is the President of the Senate. And we also want to talk about dialing..., of this fake dialing, often cynical, which remembers that there is no de facto dialing, that there is no de facto dialing, that there is no de facto dialing, that there is no de facto dialing, that there is a rhetoric of the dialing, that it is a false dialing. Why was the dialect when Members' and Members' rights were violated? Where was the dial the 1st of October when the citizens of Catalonia were beaten? Where was the dial on October 3rd when the king made an infamous speech? Where was the dialogue on October 10th when President Puigdemont came here and suspended the declaration of the Catalan Parliament in the face of a good dialogue and was not possible? Perhaps you had a lot of dialogue with the king, with the Mariano Rajoy, with the IBEX, with the practical powers of the State, but you have never volunteered to dialogue with the independence forces of the Parliament of Catalonia. We've always had the door open. Where was the dialog when our candidates vetoed us? When did President Puigdemont get vetoed as president of the Generality? When did they veto Mr. Jordi Sánchez? When they vetoed Mr. Jordi Turull, that here in the middle of a ple...? Where was the dialog all these days? Where was the dialog when the rights were violated in a flagrant way? Where was the dialog when we really wanted a dialog and we put some conditions in it and you preferred to go to elections, denying assumptions? We're not tired of the false rhetoric of the dialect. We fly politics in capitals. And finally, we're talking about parliamentary courtesy. Miri, the oldest of all parliamentary courtesies, Mr Iceta, is that there may be 135 Members in the Parliament of Catalonia with all their rights and dues. [[Greetings.]] This is the oldest of all parliamentary courtesies. Are you talking about courtesy? So let's talk about courtesy when the pain is trivialized, Mr. Iceta, when the pain of prisoners and exiles is trivialized, when it's mocked, when it's laughing. We talk about parliamentary courtesy when exile is less widespread. Let's talk about parliamentary courtesy when there are attitudes that offend, like the attitude that there was here, in that Ple of the Jordi Turull, the prison weekend, that there was here, that there were family members, and you were not even able to turn and look them in the face. This is a false parliamentary courtesy, Mr. Iceta. And look, yes, Mr. Iceta, you can't ask us for parliamentary courtesy. Mr. Iceta, you can't ask us for parliamentary courtesy, you can't. And that's why we'll vote against your proposal as a senator. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. Tell me, Mr. Iceta, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.24.0	I wanted to ask you for the word for repeated allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.25.0	Anyway, when the debate is over. But since it is actually a process of appointing you as a senator, it is normal for you to refer to it from the rostrum. [[Widow's remorse.]] But, in any case, I will not suffer; it will then, when the debate is over, have a return for allusions. In any case, before the word has the deputy Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.26.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the law establishes the way to replace a senator, it is laid down in the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament of Catalonia and also in Law 6, of 2010, and we cannot vote but on these substitutions, unless these laws are not complied with, unless we are prepared to allow the majority to leave minorities without rights. And that is what is happening today in this Parliament again, but it is normal for this to happen here, because this is the Parliament where the rights of Members were ignored, where independence was declared unilaterally, from where Catalan society was divided. And the separatist forces that are blocking the institutions again today have not asked for forgiveness for it nor are they alluded to. This separatism..., the degree of abnormality is measured day by day, as what happened yesterday, where we had a president who has been censored by his racist writings by the main groups of the European Parliament who were declaring before the High Court of Justice for violating the elementary rules governing democratic electoral processes. And there was our president of the Generalitat, there, declaring for something so serious. Or that yesterday we also knew that the prosecution is going to investigate the dome of the public media in Catalonia precisely by criminal organization in order to promote the realization of illegalities. Mr. Iceta, with all due respect and even personal appreciation that you know that many of us have you, we cannot vote even symbolically that yes, a yes that would have no effect in the face of the blockade of separatism, because you depended on your partners and simply your partners have left you stranded. You have already chosen partners, Mr.Iceta; you have already dynamite the bridges with constitutionalism. And this is the consequence of going with whom to make covenants, Mr.Iceta. We cannot vote for that symbolic yes, too, because we find out about the newspapers and because it is the result of Mr Sánchez's toe this procedure in which we are today. But neither can we block..., we can't block. Nor do we give that symbolic yes to a socialism that is defending, in favour of separatism, the pardons, which defended a referendum of independence, which defended and defends a pact with the separatists rather than with the constitutionalists. We cannot give a symbolic yes to that socialism which systematically looks elsewhere when the rights of Catalans are constantly violated throughout the territory of Catalonia, also in many municipalities, with the connivance of the Socialist Party. [[Greetings.]] And I must also tell you, Mr.Iceta, that this strategy of appeasement carried out by socialism with separatism is clear that it is a failure, since, in the end, you look at the payment you have had, with all these concessions, so much around the pacts with those who are not constitutionalists. Separatism is not reliable; they have a long-term plan, we all know it, they won't stop: they want a Brexit for Catalonia and they want to get us out of Spain. And logically that we, the Citizens', cannot allow it. I believe that today's failure, Mr Iceta, must invite you to reflect on the support that the Socialist Party is seeking and is asking of the separatist parties. We are therefore not going to be able to give them symbolic and ineffective support with a yes which is doomed to failure, but we are certainly not going to stop abstaining in these circumstances either, since this is the only logical position that currently lies in Catalan politics and in the face of the disjunctive that has been raised today. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now yes, Mr. Iceta, if you want... [[Pause.]] For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.28.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I will be very brief and try to ensure that my intervention does not require the replication of other groups. I just wanted to say three things. One, Tuesday will be the Senate of Spain; there will be a representative of the Generality and there will be a representative of the Socialist Group. Two, to express my absolute respect for all people, for all ideas, and to remember that the first time I spoke in this chamber of the Senate was when I offered to accompany President Puigdemont to avoid the application of Article 155. [[Greetings.]] And thirdly, tell them that, whatever the outcome of the vote is, no matter how painful it may seem, I will not be left with a shred of willingness to find agreed solutions from the only way we have, which is the dialog, the negotiation and the pact. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-16-3101.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. Once the debate has been taken, then we shall proceed to the vote. In accordance with Rule 5.2 of Law 6/2010 and Rule 101(c) of the Rules of Procedure, the Bureau granted that an electronic and secret ballot shall be taken. I remind you that, as long as a proposal is submitted to a vote – Article 5.1 of Law 6/2010 – and not an election, the votes that are formulated may be in favour, against or forbearance. Before beginning the vote, however, and in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that the deputy Francesc Viaplana, with a motion for parental leave, has delegated his vote for this plenary session to the deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and that the deputies Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva have appointed the deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, because you exercise your parliamentary rights. We shall proceed to the vote. I pray to the technical services of the chamber which have the voting system so that it is effectively secret. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, we'll proceed to the vote, then. The vote begins... [[Widow's remorse.]] The vote is over. Excuse me. [[Pause.]] Right now. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Let's go back to voting. Please, be quiet. The vote begins. As there have been 25 votes in favour, 65 against and 39 abstentions, the proposal to appoint Mr Miquel Iceta and Mr Llorens to the Senate is rejected. The session's up. Thank you.
