ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.1.0	Let us resume the plenary with the desire of the order of the day, which are the questions with oral answer to the Government. [[Ask the Government about authorization to a private entity to monitor the linguistic behaviour of students and teachers at educational centres]] [[310-00217/12]] The first question is about authorizing a private entity to monitor the linguistic behaviour of students and teachers at the educational centres. Ask the question, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Daniel Serrano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.2.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Counsellor, has the Government authorized a private entity to spy on teachers and children in educational institutions for linguistic reasons?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.3.0	To answer the question, has the word the Counsellor d'Educació, Mr. Josep Bargalló. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.4.0	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. The department has not authorized any private entity to carry out a socio-linguistic study on the use of language in the countries or in other non-docent areas of educational centres.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.5.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.6.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, we don't believe him– we don't believe him. And you know why? Because you, as colloquially said, have been left in your lie, hung in the brush. You appeared last June 25 in the Education Committee, and there you told us that the department had no knowledge of the facts, that it had not authorized anything, that even if an entity applied for a permit of these characteristics would be denied. You came to tell us, practically, that you knew neither the platform nor its members, and that even then, there was practically evidence that the data could have been invented. For he lied to us, Mr Bargalló – he lied to us. If there was a Pinocchio tournament of the year, you would be a serious contender for the title. And to know why? Because the Platform for Language has revealed, in the last few days, that you are the equestrian lord of the great separatist brother who have assembled in schools to spy on teachers and children in Catalan educational institutions. It was bad that you had no knowledge of these facts; bad and surprising. But the point is, Mr. Counsellor, that you came to the committee to lie to us blatantly. It's just the top. The department knew it, the department agreed to it, and the department had to plan and coordinate it, because no one believes that this platform has been able to access fifty educational centers in Catalonia, if it is not coordinated by the teaching department. Mr. Bargalló, you lied. You have to resign. Go, go and leave the children alone. Children should speak, in schools, the language they consider most appropriate. Dismissed. I am very aware that you are not going to do it, because you are fully convinced that spying on children in schools, for linguistic reasons, is fine. But I'm going to address Mr. Torra. Mr. Torra, I'm putting summer duties on you. And beyond defusing the margarita, whether or not you are going to let it continue with the legislature, stop Mr Bargalló – stop it. Stop before the party of this one stops you. Stop it, act as a good ruler, and you will also see the satisfaction of the vast majority of Catalans, who we believe that spying on children for linguistic reasons is a democratic scandal and a shame.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.7.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.8.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. I thank you for all your words. [[Rialles.]] We're used to it. You, the more brazen and the bigger they say it, the less reason they have. Because when they're right – I don't remember, that, when it happened –, they usually make arguments, and when they want, they say falsehoods. Language Platform did not request any authorization. The department didn't authorize it. Because if you've authorized it, you've communicated it to the center and you'll have an authorization document. And they don't have it because it's not there, because it didn't authorize it. And why wasn't he authorized? Because what you say Platform for the Language you did – that if you read the study, instead of being interested in the headline, you would know – is called, in sociolinguistics, "observation of incongruity. And the same platform says, in its study, that it didn't even communicate it to the centers. How did you get into the center? You should know, because, for example, the Assembly for a Bilingual School, which you support, has published various reports with photographs of the centres, with videos of students from the centres, and I can assure you – and you may believe – that we have not authorized this association to enter the centres. The centres have autonomy. But there's one more thing: if it was done with authority, it wouldn't be spying – it wouldn't be spying. Do you know what it is, spying? The one you've been doing for years from the state's locksmiths. That's spying. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.9.0	The next question is about the National Pact for Safe and Sustainable Mobility. [[Asks the Government about the National Pact for Safe and Sustainable Mobility]] [[310-00212/12]] Asks the question, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Josep Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor Buch. In an interview on road safety that I made at the end of October last year, he began to say that one of the most striking and well-feeling campaigns against the left-wings coincided temporarily with a worrying upsurge of the colds, but terrible death and heavy injuries in traffic accidents. It was the campaign."We all have family. To the road, zero victims. The campaign was a conceptual uncertainty, but the data that had been collected was desolating. 2018 ended with 185 fatal victims on the reels; many more than the 130 of 2017 and 127 of 2016, and very close to the 199 fatal victims of 2010, years that takes as an alarming reference to revert to the bass. Enguany – until yesterday – have lost their lives in traffic accidents to the Catalan long-distance network of people: a descent of 15_per_cent; but an insufficient descent to meet European objectives, which mark a reduction of 45_per_cent for this year's respect of 2010, and of 50_per_cent by 2020. Until 15 July or until today, the descent is as low as 28,3_per_cent in 2010. Therefore, do not lower the guard: there are indicators and trends that worry. A concern that you already shared in that inquiry and announced to us an increase in concrete measures and strategic actions to meet the target of zero victims by 2050. On the 12th of this month, the President of the Generality, accompanied by you and the Councillor of Territories and Sustainability, presided over the constitution of the plenary of the National Pact for Safe and Sustainable Mobility. It is an ambitious strategic bet to achieve, above all, a safer mobility, but also linked to the concept of sustainability. The question we ask him together for Catalonia is the following: what concerns the most? and what is the short, medium and long-term approach to the National Compact on Safe and Sustainable Mobility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, you have the word "adviser d'Interior", Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.12.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Data is what you say. And the shock plan we pulled forward, so, it reduced mortality, respects last year, a 15-per-cent as you said. That is why, in the short term, we are working with the shock plans that we have put forward, but in the long term we have planned to push forward this national platform for safe and sustainable mobility. If it is true that accident reduction data are at European level – therefore, we are not just a case in point, but at European level – we have reaffirmed ourselves and committed ourselves to bringing this pact forward. And more importantly, when we talk about mobility, the government is committed to this mobility... so that security is inseparable from sustainability. Therefore, from the Department of Territories and from the Department of Interior, led by President Torra, we have drawn forward this pact, with six concrete axes, which are: rethinking public space, adapting road safety policies to the new features of left-wingism, creating a communicative strategy to involve the entire society, creating a strategic cooperation space with the different sectors involved in intelligent mobility, establishing strategic objectives for infrastructures that respect our mobility systems, and creating the necessary structure with the authority of the treaty, to address our challenges of mobility and security in the future. And that we don't want to throw it away, we want to throw it away with the deputies, with the local world, with the civil society, the economic society of this country. Therefore, the companies in the sector, the entities, all those involved in safe and sustainable mobility have a place to work and reduce these data, with the unique vision of having a zero-mortality view of the reels in our country. There are some data, which is why we can commit ourselves to, but it is certain that the compromise also goes to the driver and the driver who decides to take the car. And let's share with you a given, which is that the past year, the half of the drivers, one_of_everyone who died to the reelers gave positive in alcohol, drugs, or psychopharmaceuticals. It is obvious that we can work very hard, and we will, but there must be a compromise with the security, too, of the people who are taking the wheel of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government to reply on the plan to call the Placúnic d'obres y servicis de Catalunya]] [[310-00213/12]] The next question is about the intention to call the Pla únic d'obres y servici de Catalunya. Asks the question, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Anna Erra. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.14.0	Thank you, President. Councillor Budó, one of his first objectives as a government and as a councillor, and concretely in his department, has been, above all, the recovery of institutional normality and the execution of pending projects in the local world. You, Counselor, have already announced the recovery and the new call approved for the government on May 21, of PUOSC, with a duration of five years and for a value of 250_million euros. It may be recalled that the PUOSC is a program that, from the local world, was very – very – missing, since it is a tool with a very powerful developer and investor function for the territory. The PUOSC, for the Generalitat, has always been the instrument of economic cooperation to realize works and services of municipal competence; a tool that coordinates the various administrations of Catalonia to frame the economic cooperation between administrations, aimed at creating new infrastructures, equipments to the municipalities, with the aim, above all, of improving the life of the population. With the severe economic crisis and the demands to reduce the deficit, the PUOSC of investments disappeared. We must remember that the last call was 2008-2012. For this reason, for the municipality, the recovery of these PUOSC was a key and necessary claim from the local world. Therefore, to obtain this new call represents for the territories the recovery of an important tape, since it must be borne in mind that the objective of the programme is to promote actions that enable local authorities to promote the generation of opportunities, the creation of synergies with the agents of each territory and, ultimately, actions aimed at promoting economic development, always with the leadership of local authorities and with a special treatment for the territories where there are more complex situations of aging or population loss. The local world is clear that this plan is the main instrument of economic cooperation to bring to terms works and services of municipal competence. Yesterday the Government approved the regulatory bases of the call of the subsidizing lines of the PUOSC corresponding to the year 20-24. That is why, Counselor, we want to ask you, from the visit of the territory and content with this recovery, who are the Government's forecasts of the new call for PUOSCs? What will be the forecast calendar? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.16.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs..., MP, Mayor Erra, many thanks – allow me to suppress everything – to ask this question, because I think it also allows me to take advantage of it, so now that I have the micro in Parliament here, so that I can make a recognizance of the big pocket that in this country is due to the end of local administrations. Many of you are mayors or mayors or have been and know what I'm talking about. In fact, at that time of severe economic crisis that we were going to suffer here in our home, it was the local administration that responded to the demands of the citizenry, giving the most agile and proper answers, as our villains and villains at that time called us. At the same time we found that, in support accounts, from the Government of the State was answered limiting the autonomy of locals with an unfair law, as is – and still is – the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Government. A law used for more than 850 gatherings in Catalonia and which continues to be in force at this time. An unfair law with the joints, which treats the joints as suspicious of wasting and misgoverning, while their surpluses served the Government of the State to complete the pitfall imposed by the European Union. This is the reality we've been through since the local world. And, of course, the Government of the Generality, at its time in the accounts for the fiscal deficit, for the heavy drop in admissions and also for repeated incompliments and repeated on the part of the Government of the State, did not have enough to afford the joints. At these times, that since 2017 we are recovering the debt..., that is, we are returning the debt to the joints, that we have reduced it to 88_per_cent, at these times, programs like PUOSC, we can affirm that we have the ability to put them back into operation. And, therefore, the Generalitat has regained investor capacity in the local world. You asked me for the program. So the program is: that the bases are published now in the DOGC, at the end of July; it will be called on September 2nd; the assemblies will have a deadline until November to present their projects, and then there will be a period of study and allegations that will end the month of April, with the intention that the month of May of the year 2020 will already be the date of the subventions to the local authorities. A few grants that will make a special replenishment and have a specific endowment...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.17.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.18.0	... for those municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the strategic plan of the rural cos d'Agents]] [[310-00210/12]] The next question is about the strategic Pla of the Rural Agents Cos. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Montserrat Fornells. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor Jordan, the past 16th of generation the government approved the Strategic Pla of the Rural Agents' Cos 2019-2024; a historical claim of the cos, a pending deute. A plan that will surely help to dignify the body and adapt it to the current needs and needs, dimensioning its staffing, for example, with the call of three-hundred and nine effective places, explaining the different occupational categories and strengthening the technical and administrative structure with fifty nine staff places, so that we can continue to provide a quality service to our country. I'd like to take advantage of a special record for Xavier and David, the two rural agents murdered in service to Aspa in 2017. The approval of this board is the fruit of the work done by the department that you have in coordination with the same body, but also by the work done by the department encapsulated by Councilwoman Meritxell Serret. We came from years without a clear bet for the sector, and under the direction of Consteller Serret began the processing of this strategic plan, as well as the creation of the Directorate General of Rural Agents, or the convening of fifty subinspectors, so that we could technify the thing and place it at the place where our country's environmental police deserve. The task of rural agents is fundamental as those responsible for the conservation of nature and the protection of our environment and natural heritage, with a wide range of functions that develop, for example, surveillance, control and inspection of wild and protected fauna, hunting and river fisheries, protected natural areas and biodiversity, and our forest resources; in addition to prevention and investigation of forest fires. Counselrera, from our group we would like to ask him: how does he value the approval of this strategic Pla of the Rural Agents Cos? What objectives of the future are they intended to be hard-to-term, from their department, respecting the rural agents' cosmos? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of the Agriculture Advisor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordan. When he wants to, he'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.22.0	Thank you very much, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Many thanks, Mrs Fornells; first of all, because she has explained it fantastically and she has left me no reason to answer it; but, in any case, to thank her also for her record for Xavier and David, to whom, too, I would like to add, not only to the record of the two of them, but also to her families, Esther, to Sylvia and all the companies, and to the whole family, in short, of the rural agents – Llorenç, Lluís, Eladi... – all the people who accompanied them and who also suffered during those days. Decide we are, extremely decided, to continue doing everything possible – not only possible, but also impossible, that sometimes it is also necessary to do so – to empower this thing. A thing that, it is to say, has certainly been abandoned for many years, no one has taken it into account. But the past Tuesday, as he said, so the government approved this strategic map of the Rural Agents' Cos, precisely to advance in many themes. I'll highlight two, huh? One is technology, but also security – this is important. The Strategic Platform of the Rural Agents' Cos will therefore respond to the need to provide more security for the rural agents of the cos. In this sense, the regulation of weapons, for example, must allow, among other things, to adapt to the diversity of actions, obviously depending on the operational needs. Beyond that, however, what you have explained and what you all know, I would like to highlight the human part of this thing today. To tell them that the body has many virtues – many, many – but I want to focus precisely on people, because all agents have had to spend many years holding, holding without structure, and it is worth saying – and I want to say high and clear – that it is worth making a grace; a grace to their professionalism, but not only to professionalism, but also to the expert, to the esteem and vocation they have for the work they develop. Because you just disappear because of the work you do, believing it, so it's when you can do it, beyond having a structure and beyond being empowered. I mean, that thank you for all of them and for all of them. And I just answered, a little, the principle question. We are very satisfied; yes, we are very satisfied, because with this approval we work tirelessly for this thing and because we have what our police ultimately deserve – let's just say this – environmental, that ages for our natural environment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.23.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.24.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.25.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the improvement of the economy and the reduction of inequalities]] [[310-00216/12]] The next question is about the improvement of the economy and the reduction of inequalities; formulated, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, by Mrs Raquel Sans. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.26.0	Thank you, President. Vice President Aragonès, a few days ago he presented to his Creu Roja the annual report of the Catalan economy corresponding to the year 2018, which reduces the evolution of the main macroeconomic magnitudes, but also the behavior of the indicators of social progress and welfare. For what it does to macroeconomic data, from the outset it was possible to know that the gross domestic product per capita in Catalonia – i.e., the gross domestic product divided between the number of inhabitants – has recovered the levels predicted at the crisis in real terms and stood at EUR 32,000 per person. The total gross domestic product had already been recovered by the year 2016. According to this document, which is produced annually, the Catalan economy recorded an increase of 2.6_per_cent in 2018, and already represents 19.1_per_cent of the GDP of the State, even though it is certain that it is a more moderate increase, but also more sustained than in previous years. Thus, in relation to the labour market, the Catalan economy continued to generate employment at a good pace, tying up five years of growth sustained after the end of the crisis. 2018 sets the lowest rate in a decade – 11 and a half percent – after the year 2013 peak, which was 23.1_per_cent. However, they continue to highlight the high tax rates for young people aged between seven and four and non-Community foreigners. But on the other side of the coin we have that, despite this reduction in the rate, inequality rates have not fallen in the same proportion and have increased taxes on the relative and the working poor. Therefore, working today is not a guarantee of being able to arrive at the end of the month. And it must be stated that women and young people are the most vulnerable to these situations of inequality, as they face, among others, situations of unintended temporality or precarious wages. Precisely to combat these inequalities also with a general look, the department that you encapsulate has proposed that the government make a minimum wage of reference, a Catalan minimum wage, higher than Spanish, which is kept in mind for social agents during collective bargaining processes. We would appreciate it if you would explain to us in more detail what this proposal is and above all what the end is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of Mr Pere Aragonès, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.28.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Member, as a good thing, we presented this Report on the evolution of the Catalan economy in the year 2018, in which if we look at the global picture of the conjunction of our economy we carry a few years chaining important growth rates, higher than 3_per_cent, and that in 2018 it was located in 2.6_per_cent; therefore, a better growth and, therefore, a significant growth. It is also important that in real terms – therefore, adapted to the evolution of prices – we have reached GDP per capita before the crisis. We have already exceeded total GDP, the rich created total in Catalonia, three years ago – which there were, therefore, before the economic crisis – but now we have also done so in terms per capita, in real terms. And there's a general improvement in the weather: we place ourselves, at the end of the past year, in the 11.5_per_cent. But this global photo isn't complete if we don't start looking at the details, if we don't zoom in. And when we zoom in, we see that this recovery hasn't come for everyone; on the contrary, that inequality is one of the goals that explains how we got out of the economic crisis: basically, therefore, in good part with a wage devaluation. The poverty risk rate on the job has been at its peak since 2013. We're currently at 14,4_per_cent. Therefore, at the expense of the policies of redistribution of the wealth that this Government does, not only with the provision of services but also with benefits such as guaranteed income from citizenship, we must also focus on the predisposition, that is, on changing the conditions of the market. There has been an increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, which was promoted by the Government of the State, with the aim of reaching the EUR-nine hundred, but it is clear that this is insufficient in Catalonia, because the cost of living is different, and that, moreover, it has an impact, the coverage of the minimum wage, especially in women – especially in women–; the coverage of the minimum wage in 2017 affected 1,17_percent of the assailed women and only 0,98_percent of men. Therefore, this increase in minimum wages, through this minimum wage of reference that we will articulate through collective bargaining..., to what the State does not do, we will do so by agreeing, and we will also do so by incorporating it into the government's public contract. Therefore, we will push this agreement: three_months to calculate it and then work to implement it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.29.0	Thank you, Vice-President [[Ask the Government about security in Sant Adrià de Besòs (Barcelona)]] [[310-00214/12]] The next question is about security in Sant Adrià de Besòs – Barcelones. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.30.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Counselor Buch, yesterday late, after the meeting held between the consistor of Sant Adrià de Besòs with his mayor, Mr. Joan Callau at the front, the Director General of the Police and the head of the Mosso d'Esquadra, we met the inn in March of the Pla de scóc de séguretat at the barrier of the Mine. This plan will have as its main objective to strengthen police presence in order to reduce the increase in crimes that have occurred in the last few years in the bar. Some examples: the narcopies are multiple with ease; the consumption and sale of drugs, especially heroin, has returned to the levels of the eighty years; only the venipuncture room of the Mina has more users than the eight venopunction salts of the rest of Barcelona; every day in the streets and parks of the Mina is replenishment of ninety-three non-kings; new _of_each_two floors of the bar are social floors, 70_per_cent of which have the punched light, which causes light out and constant fires. The two permanent mobile brigades during late and late night, neutralising the activity of clan drug trafficking or access control, must help us to regain coexistence in public space from this very end of the week. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mina cannot be consolidated as the barre of the poor and drugs of the metropolitan area, it cannot continue to feel the area that acquits everything that expels the city of Barcelona, and above all we must reveal ourselves before the feeling that everyone is already well that the Mina is like this, as if it were a species of historical heritage impossible to reverse. The Mine does not only have a security problem, that tea requires cross-cutting policies of fighting the poor, against exclusion, against school absenteeism, that at first up to 40_per_cent and at second up to 76_per_cent. It requires policies of salvation, housing, urbanism. In short, I call a coordinated action by the administrations involved and responsible for the change that the Mine needs. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance the congratulations for this plan, and also to the Assembly of Sant Adrià de Besòs for its consistency in the complaint. We'll pay attention to your strict compliment. But it's not all done, Counselor. With the aim of strengthening the measures announced, is it committed to increasing during the next few months the number of agents of Mosso d'Esquadra who have to age for the security of the barrier of the Mine of the conjunction of Sant Adrià de Besòs? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, you have the word "adviser d'Interior", Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.32.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Member, for the question. Totally okay, huh? , with the Mine not to be the one to expel other cities, such as the city of Barcelona, and, therefore, we have to age. And totally agree that we have to work in a transversal form. I mean, the crime level that's in the Mina's barrel concretely, obviously, has to work with police strategies; it's clear and round and I don't miss our responsibility. But it is true that, as you said, there are other departments of the same Generality, the assembly, the same parliament..., the same Barcelona assembly can also participate in a firm way, okay? , to age so that I do not continue, therefore, a situation in which we determine that the Mine..., we notice a deterioration of the objective security and the perception of security in the concrete barrier of the Mine. And that's why, once I'm a counselor, we've reinforced the patrol, we've put in a device, we've named it Duet, local police and Squad Mosos. We've had an increase of 7.8_per_cent in the concrete arrests of the Mine Barrister. We are making home entrances, the result of police investigations and judicial authorities, etc. So we've been working on it. And now what do we intend to do or what did we announce yesterday to the mayor of Sant Adrià de Besòs? Intensify the work we have done – intensify it. What? So pulling forward a police shock plan, ensuring immediate ability to act with the presence and patrolling of the mobile brigade – therefore, the question that makes me answer already – generating intelligence about criminal activity and contacts with other populations, continuing investigative tasks to neutralize drug trafficking activity that is so concerned about us, recovering public space to border areas so that they do not go into buying drugs, and controlling mobility to reduce the presence of weapons, or increasing police coordination with the local police. It's our job. But now, talking to the counselors, or the health counselor and the teaching counselor, so they were also talking to me about the reform of a CAP, a school, etc. Therefore, the policy must be cross-cutting in order to lower these levels of crime. I can tell you that the solution is not just police – the solution is not just police – I think we share that. Now, what's close to me, like the Department of Interior and the Councillor of the Interior, is that the police strategy will be there and strengthened to vet..., to attack this criminal activity and this increase in drug use we have in the concrete barrel of the Mine, but also in other barrels of this country, of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the structure of the Health Department]] [[310-00215/12]] The next question is about the structure of the Salvation Department. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs Assumpta Escarp. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.34.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Consellera, after fourteen months presents us now the new management structure of the Servivei Català de la Salut. We'd like to ask him what the changes are supposed to do, which is the benefit of the citizens, so there's no public competition to cover the seats and why he's been cheating more than a year.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Alba Vergés, Salut Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.36.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Well, Members, Members–thank you, President–, so yes, we have made changes, because obviously we need to push all the policies that we are designing from the Health Department, and this we do from all the structure of the department, also from the Catalan Health Service, answer to a single premise, that society is not static, society is changing, is constantly changing, and we have the duty to escape from paralysis, to escape from this" we have always done so, and obviously we have to adapt to the change, deputy; so yes, we need to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.38.0	Thank you. If we were to make changes, we could start with transparency and professionalism. Because, look, first it was the change in the direction of the Valley of Hebron, questioned for all the heads of service. There was no plausible explanation. Later, Terrassa Mutual. And we're replacing and moving from the other centers. Now the dismantling and replacement of the CatSalut structure. Miri, you'll forgive me, but in a first reading it seems they're erasing everything that Councilman Comín remembers. And because it doesn't get that way, they end up relocating the exits and we're going to increase the structures. Are you sure they didn't even plan to cover all these places for the competition? I say this, as I said, in terms of transparency, fitness and above all the defence of professionalism. It seems that the changes respond – you didn't tell me, but it's more or less written – to something that is said by CatSalut's 2019-2020 Action Plan. I looked at it and it really is a document full of infinity: "to facilitate, "to strengthen, "to create..., it would be better to decrease and reduce the growing bureaucracy of the system. This action plan has no concrete measures, no timetables, no assumptions, no identifiable actions that put citizens in the center of the system. Let us remain honest, Counselor, we are at the top of the autonomous communities at the expense of salvation per capita. Professionals are still on strike. The waiting lists are 812,667 people waiting to be reached, 91,000 more than a year ago. Her lost year, counselor, is her year of hope, of all these patients. It does not complete any of Parliament's agreements. Look, counselor, you have the right to adapt the structure and, as you say, to make changes, to those who care, to manage, and you can do it with what you believe the most: affinity, trust or what you believe. But all right generates a deure. And you are oblivious of the duty to give an answer to the needs of salvation of the citizenry and, what is most important, to defend a public service of universal salvation, accessible, fair and transparent. Maybe it would be time to start posing there. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.39.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.40.0	Precisely, Congresswoman, the changes are right for that. They respond to a new plan of action made by the Catalan Health Service, obviously a lot of work, which must give response to these new needs of salvation. We have demographic changes in our society, which also increases aging, increases chronic disease, we need to be able to incorporate technological and medical innovation with new treatments, and expand service portfolios when this is required by the need for salvation. And we have a double window. One is to respond and, above all, to age because our visible face of the health system, which are our professionals, can develop their work in the best conditions. And that's why we restructured the Health Department, making a general direction of new and reinforcing health professionals as well as the Planning Directorate General, to give this systemic view to all health policies. And the other thing, obviously, is this, this new 2019-2020 Action Plan, which has a much more system vision and not so much a provider to whom some activities and services are entrusted. We need a structure to be able to give this impetus to the policies of salvation, and let's say, many of them started the past legislature of Councillor Comín, which we want to continue pushing and so we are doing. Therefore, structural changes respond precisely to this, they respond to this action plan. We promote the harmonization of results and the quality of services and facilitate this implementation of policies promoted for the Health Department and for the entire Government of the Government of Catalonia. This new CatSalut structure responds to different areas of action. Evidently the first, the foundational pillar: the care services that we must give to our citizens [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.41.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.42.0	...economic resources and professionals and organisations... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.43.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the expansion of the airport of Barcelona - el Prat]] [[310-00211/12]] The next question is about the expansion of the airport of Barcelona - El Prat. I ask the question, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.44.0	Councillor, from our parliamentary group, from Catalonia to Comú Pode, we want to know what is the position of the Government on the projects that the table has given to expand the Prat airport: on the supposed intention, in this case, to build a _fourth runway at the Prat airport, on the enlargement with a satellite terminal and on the will, expressed in this case for the socialist and president of AENA, the reminder I would say Maurici Lucena, on moving from 50_million passengers to 90_million annual passengers at the Prat airport, and if the Government believes that this has felt in a climate emergency context.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.45.0	To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.46.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament... I thank you very much for asking us this question, because this is a real issue of Catalonia, of those that we manage every day from every department, every one of the government's advisors and advisors, even though there is no reason to hide or deny, because this is an issue that people really care about. People worry about how they guarantee their right to mobility, as well as designing our economy, but people are also concerned, effectively, that all this is done with the environmental criteria and the climate-emergency context criteria that we are living in. And, therefore, the combination of this concern needs to be reflected, it needs to be shaped and we need to respond with plans, with concrete plans and projects, which are not there. Beyond the interviews in which they volunteer, the Government of the Generality has no awareness of the programme, of the concrete project of expansion neither of the fourth track nor of the satellite terminal, and, therefore, we are waiting for these projects to be able to evaluate them. As the administration, obviously we don't just have an opinion, but they can also act through the urban approvals of these plans. With regard to the quality of the area, which is based on everything that refers to airport activity, we do not only have an opinion and we can act, but we also have responsibility. And, therefore, we, with the will that – in fact, we have already passed 50_million – can guarantee that this basic and strategic infrastructure, I insist, for people and families, and for the economy of the country, we will be ready to express our opinion when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have the word, to answer, the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.48.0	Counselor, what I'd like to know is what his opinion is, is to say, what will be presented in this case by the Government of the Government to the table when this debate is produced. Look, counselor, you know that in this case air travel is an important contribution to contamination, and especially to the emission of winter-effect gases. Practically air travel in the European Union accounts for 13_percent of CO2 emissions. And, more than that, he knows that a trip, in this case, by plane from Barcelona to Madrid supposes and still contaminates sometimes more than a trip between Barcelona and, in this case, also Madrid through the AVE. What we want to know is if you have a project, if you have a country project and, therefore, you want to know, in this case, where you want to situate Catalonia. If you want to place Catalonia at the forefront of the fight against climate emergency, against climate change, or you want to place it in an ancient government, in a grey government. What we're putting in place are alternatives, which I think is what we should be doing at this point in time, the Generality and its government: leading alternatives. The first, we believe that it is essential: to limit journeys by plane between Madrid and Barcelona. We must bet, in this case, through the train, through the AVE; in this case, find alternatives, and more every time more economical, to the air travel. And finally, we don't think they have any sense of these expansion projects either. It is obvious that, in this case, on the part of the Government, you believe that this generates more economy, that it generates more economic growth, but I also believe that this economic growth, this generation of economy also has very important costs for the city and citizens of Catalonia. Contamination is killing us, this economic growth without limit, partly in this case of many economic interests, killing us, and we also believe that alternatives, alternatives of sustainable transport, that in this case they go all the way, for example, to seek, as I say, to strengthen transport by train, to avoid in this case the transport of goods by air and, even in this case, to give response from an environmental point of view to which is a very important climate crisis. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.50.0	Yes, sir, that you don't know, doesn't mean that the government isn't working on alternatives. We are working on alternatives and proposals, which we will logically put on the table when we touch. [[Greetings.]] With regard to the physical expansion of the airport, we believe..., and we have said it many times and have wanted to express it publicly many times, that we believe in an airport system; we believe in an airport system that combines the potentialities of Barcelona, Girona - Costa Brava and Reus with a railway interconnection, not so much with an expansion – let me say 'hodir so, to the beast' – of the airport of Barcelona. That would be a first point. And a_second point serious with reference to the quality of the area. You talked about the emissions; we should also talk about the emissions, which are different, from the CO2, the NOx, the particles that the airport of Barcelona brings to all our surroundings, the special protection, the Barcelona...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.51.0	Time's up. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about its communicative policy]] [[310-00218/12]] The next question is about its communicative policy, to the Government. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.52.0	Good morning, Counselor. Not long ago, Puigdemont said this game is played in Europe. But the truth is that you are accumulating setbacks in Europe and many. Review with the European Court of Human Rights; review with the European Parliament; review with the European Commission. The question is: will you explain to Catalan citizens your failures in Europe?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.53.0	To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.54.0	Well, thank you, President. Madam Member, when these failures that you announce, you must have more information than the government, is producing, obviously we will have no problem explaining them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.55.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.56.0	I find it very difficult to understand, Counselor, how you are not yet explaining the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which endorsed the Constitutional Court when it suspended the plenary session that had to approve the unilateral declaration of independence. It is difficult for me that you are not explaining how the European Court of Human Rights considered it to be a necessary step in a democratic society, which was to maintain public security, and, yes, the European Court of Human Rights considered that the political rights of all Catalans were violated when the separatist majority trampled on rights..., abusing by their majority, trampled on the rights of Members who did not think like them. And what has happened since then? What has it been for? For the European Court of Human Rights to give reason to the Constitutional Court? And what about Puigdemont? Puigdemont spent approximately €980,000 on international media for the process. And what has it been for, Counselor? So that Catalonia will continue to be an autonomous community of Spain today? So that Puigdemont, then, maximum responsible for Catalonia, is today a sad fugitive from justice? And what do you say, Counselor, about the voyages of the Government of Torra to Brussels? Eighty-seven thousand euros. What have they served? Counselor, stop running forward and don't act as if nothing happened, because it's happening, and don't be cowards and tell the truth to Catalans: they're spending millions of euros for the process and it's no use, to the garbage bin. Well, yes, it serves one thing: to confront the Catalans. And with that, what are you guys gonna do? Will they do it again? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.57.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.58.0	Thank you very much, President. Frankly, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, honourable Member, you have spoken of everything, less of a communicative policy, which represents that it was for which you wanted to ask this councillor [[applause]] ; but, at the same time, there will be no problem in answering it. Look, listen to me, tourism and outdoor promotion campaigns, if you think you're wasting your money, so that's your problem; in any case, this government is still committed to the diffusion and projection of Catalonia abroad, and that's why we do the work we do. You talk about the United Nations and you talk about the European Court of Human Rights as if everything has been resolved and closed. And that's not true. Follow these procedures, open. On 27 November, the Human Rights Council was to pronounce the United Nations. There's no locked theme. There's no point in dismissing it. There's no point. And it also allows you to'remember it' the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, which said that political prisoners are being held unfairly. [[Greetings.]] Congresswoman, you are talking about the journeys that President Torra's government is spending. I ask your parliamentary group how much money did they spend to climb the gespa to Waterloo, in front of the House of the Republic? [[Greetings.]] How much money did they spend to climb the gespa and, moreover, the fine they put on them for not having asked permission to manifest themselves? Therefore, let us teach the righteous. In fact, you, today, have asked us here, in Parliament, to make a ple for talking about real Catalonia. Look, there are no more people from real Catalonia than you, that the only thing they want is confrontation, that the only reason to exist is confrontation and division of Catalan society. And we don't allow it – we don't allow it. We do work for the real Catalonia. And today President Torra will explain exactly everything we do to guarantee the rights of Catalans and Catalans. And as we are, or as you are so far away from real Catalonia, ask yourself if that's not why you don't have a mayor from this country, because you're very far away from real Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.59.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Administration of Justice]] [[310-00219/12]] The next question is about the administration of justice. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Manuel Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.60.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Senyora Capella..., a few days ago on the screens of the computers of some judges and prosecutors appeared a message where they were warned about the possibility of accessing their computer equipment to carry out control and follow-up activities by their councillor. In fact, the General Council of the Judiciary has opened an investigation to clarify whether this has been done outside the law. Can you assure us that your Government has not improperly accessed and controlled information and personal data from Catalan judges' computers?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.61.0	To answer the question, you have the word justicia's counselor, Mrs. Ester Capella. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.62.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Deputy, the Government of Catalonia has never spied on anyone. He hasn't done it or he won't do it. Not like other governments, which have usually done so and continue to do so. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.63.0	To answer again, the Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.64.0	Madame Capella..., she hasn't answered me and I didn't expect less from you. It seems that appearing that message on the screens of the computers means nothing to you. We already know that you are more than jumping over the laws, naming judges to your finger, even letting go of the corrupt in fifty days. Because the Catalans will be wondering why some gentlemen who have struck democracy, and who also warn that they will do it again, why could they be spying on the judges and since when? Perhaps since Mr.Viver i Pi-Sunyer, the architect of the trial, had foreseen a massive purge of officials of justice not loyal to the regime you intended to impose, or even when Mr. Santi Vidal made a list of good judges and bad judges, of those who had to leave and of those who had to stay in Catalonia, or perhaps even when the records of the Conselleria d'Economia were leaked, or when Mr. Buch, who is now accused, told Consellera Borràs that she was being investigated. Is that why you want to control justice? Madam Capella, what is clear to you is what does not matter to you, that you are the officials of justice, that you are suffering from your incompetence, that you are working at thirty-eight degrees, as is the case with the Sabadell and Gavà courts, that promised you that you would be in three weeks and that you are still suffering from your incompetence. Or the case of the Martorell court, which until 2022 will not be able to work in conditions because the roof falls by the leaks. Not to mention the new judicial offices, such as the case of Badalona, Sant Feliu de Llobregat or Tarragona. Or even you to cover the bites of the city of justice 3 or 4_per_cent. Take the reality at once and stop pressing, stop threatening and stop fracturing, and start working for all Catalans, instead of dividing them. And I'm going to move some questions that probably many Catalans are asking themselves. First of all, will you respect the laws as the great majority of Catalans do? Will they leave the judges alone so that they can do their work in complete normality? And if they're going to provide justice with the means to make it work normally. We know what they're capable of, but we don't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.65.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.66.0	...give us more reasons for Catalans to... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.67.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.68.0	Well, it's good that there's no deafer than the one who never wants to listen to what is said by active and passive. In any case, here you always do the same: make the big broth and more fire of incense. I'll explain it, we'll see if that's what I hear. Instruction 3/2018, on the use of information and communication technologies to the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia, addressed to the staff of the Department of the Generality of Catalonia, to all people who use a terminal that is owned by the Catalan Administration. He did not address either the courts, the prosecutors or the lawyers; it is a harmless instruction for the staff of the Administration of Justice, which does not produce any effect. Therefore, they should not worry or occupy. Two: the Generality provides all material resources; therefore, the Computers. This ad appears in the computer. The Digital Policy Department sent a massive shipment to all those terminals that are owned by the Government of Catalonia. Mirin, were we your...? Do you know what legal insecurity is? And do you know what it's like to use the personal data of the citizens of the country, of the Spanish State? It was Lexnet. Lexnet, the great fiasco, which has devoted millions of euros– millions–, for which it was necessary to compare up to three times the former Minister of the Catalan Minister to the Congress of Deputies. Do you know what was going on? That the data of thousands of citizens circulated throughout the network and that everyone could enter any judicial dispatcher. This never happened in Catalonia. Thirty years ago – thirty years ago – that this country with technological material jutjas and courts, and all those who today are breaking their clothes, all those, never ever opened their mouths when thousands of data from the citizens of all the country circulated with impunity and free passage through the network, to the abst of everyone, because everyone could consult judicial expedients who wanted to see with the letter that entered. That's what happened. And you, shut up. If you want to, you make a scandal of all the interventions of your party in Madrid: never asked anything about the citizen of this country, that his data was circulated throughout the network. And you, today, come here and explain this milonga? Mirin, when it's after school...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.69.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.70.0	...come here and ask... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.71.0	...time is running out. [[Greetings.]] [[Asks the President of the Generality about the situation and future of hydroelectric power stations]] [[317-00124/12]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy lady Natialia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.72.0	Good morning, President. In the Principality of Catalonia we have more than twenty hydroelectric power plants that are being exploited, not completing the Law of Heritage and the Law of Existing Waters, which mark a maximum time of exploitation of seventy-five years, from which these power plants would have to revert to public control. As well, keep in the hands of private entrepreneurs, such as Endesa, who generate millionaire benefits with a public good such as water; some benefits that are not left in the territory. In the next few years, the number of power stations exceeding the seventy-five years of operation will double. What does the government intend to do with all the hydroelectric power stations that are operating with the concessions that have fallen to the Catalan territory? What are you going to do to revert to public control these hydropower plants in a free form and free of charge?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.73.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.74.0	Good morning, Congresswoman. So what is always the priority of this government, that is to make the solution that best benefits, first of all, the Catalan citizenry and, second of all, the comarques, the territory, for the sake of the comarques and for the sake of the citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.75.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.76.0	Well, president, you know better than I did that you didn't answer me. I'm talking to him, president, that we're in front of a scandal; of a scandal of the water spade. There are very many irregularities in the concessions of hydro-electric benefits: lapse, alteration of water registers, illegal prorogations, omission and liability of the Confederation of Hydro-Grafts and the Catalan Agency of Water. What will your government do to get the private companies that carry out years operating the power plants in precarious and out of term return to the public archives all the benefits that have been built into a bargain? In the Fosca Valley, the valley more than a century ago gave light to Catalonia with the construction of the first hydroelectric power plant in the Spanish State, four of the five existing concessions have already been extinguished. Since the UPC we have called for the initiation of the extinction expedition and the reversal of these hydraulic jumps to return to public hands. When power stations with expired concessions begin to revert to public control, how will they ensure that the benefits of water from our Pyrenees remain in the municipality to help their local development? It can break with the monopolies of energy transnationals and dependence on fossil fuels, fighting the predatory derivatives of climate, territory and natural common benefits such as water. At present, we have no control or decision on energy production means. Instead of deciding what, how, when and why we want to use energy, today we're all customers of energy services. It is possible to achieve full energy sovereignty as the only possible way to advance towards full equality, respect for human rights and harmony with the environment. What does your government do for the recovery of energy sovereignty? And please, President, this time I ask you to answer me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.77.0	To answer again, the president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.78.0	Yes, ma'am, I have already said that we will look at each case, on a case-by-case basis, but effectively, with these principles that I have given it before; that is, the solution that most benefits citizens, the exploitation of natural resources, and the plethora respect for the country. I understand that from the current hydroelectrics there is not a pair that have already reached the end of their useful life and are no longer profitable. Certainly, I agree. And that's why I need to study, I insist, on a case-by-case basis, considering that I need to maintain exploitation and create new forms of energy supply. Miri, you have spoken of energy sovereignty, and I agree with this concept of energy sovereignty, understood, above all, with the idea of sustainability, with the idea that natural resources must be of public ownership, of course. But energy sovereignty is neither incompatible with good management nor with good service. Therefore, all these factors, let's work them, study them. Now that you have this topic, so we don't get together, we're talking about each of these cases – I'm sure that from the department, therefore, you'll want to get into each of them – and so we're studying more of these two-cent centrals, the hydroelectric power plants of the Catalan conch, we're not giving generic and identical answers to all of them, we're studying exactly each of them. Because, indeed, behind this idea of energy sovereignty there is the idea of taking over, also, of the citizenry, and of moving, in short, towards a full sovereignty, beyond energy, which is what suits us in the country. I positively value this question, as I positively value the positions your group has taken these last weeks. That is to say, if there is this willingness to put all these issues on the table and to listen to us, I am the one to work together not only on this issue, but all the issues that affect this country and that lead us to sovereignty, because here, from the first day, I told them that this was a project of the seventy independent MPs. I hope they find us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.79.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the answer to the Supreme Court's judgment on the independence leaders]] [[317-00126/12]] The following question asks the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Pom, Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.80.0	Yes, thank you, President. And good morning to all and to all. President, we don't know when the Supreme Court's judgment will come, but it may be that the Supreme Court will follow the final Ple before meeting it. We know that these past weeks you have been meeting with various political and social forces, including us, in order to appreciate the answer we have to give as the country before that, and what we want to know is: before we know it, now, as the president, who is the proposal and the answer that you think we have to give? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.81.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.82.0	Yeah. The honourable Member, therefore, will also allow us, by reason of prudence and deference, still, with all those groups, entities, unions, employers with whom we still have some meetings that could not be – sometimes, because we have to set up meetings for the fire, or because we have some meetings of the Parliament, etc., we have not finished the whole cycle –, also manifest me with a certain prudence at the time of replying to it. But I have no problem, after listening to you, entering with more detail about what you have asked me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.83.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.84.0	"Prudence, before you listen to me or before you make the meetings? It's not clear to us, President. For us, the big question is whether this answer that we donate as a country will serve to co-ordinate us as a people and to be able to overcome all the blocs, or not. And I'm telling you this because we've also read contradictory information the last few weeks, and we see that there are discrepancies in your government again. There are some who are talking about elections, even plebiscite elections. It seems that in this country, when one does not know what to do, look at the questions and if they give it good, therefore, he proposes some elections; others also propose to go back to the unilateral way, a way that has already been done, that has been a weak one and that will only lead to more frustration. President, we have already said at the meeting: there is a social majority in Catalonia that, regardless of what has been voted on in the past elections, is against this trial against the independence leaders, and is against the pre-trial prison, and wants to de-judicialize the conflict. And there is also a large majority who, even though he lived in disgust with what happened in this Parliament on the 6th and 7th of September, knows that there were no crimes of rebellion and siege. And that, President, is why we should be able to articulate a cross-cutting response, where everyone can participate, and the more we follow, the better. And, besides, every one of them follows their responsibilities. We have already said this: we believe that it is the entities and the social movements that must lead the mobilizations in the streets, and we, as public representatives, must do our job, that it is to study all the legal and political lives because the prisoners and political pressures are in freedom. He knows we proposed a reform of the penal code. And I also sweat into a negotiating table, here and in the State, to find a dialogued, negotiated exit to the conflict. Therefore, President, we ask you, once and for all, to let go of the gesticulation and not – and not – go for answers that do not take back the plurality of the country, and that more have proved to be failures. And, once and for all, help Catalonia to move forward. And this is done with an inclusive, cross-cutting response, which is not 47_per_cent, but tries to question 80, 90, and, if it can be, 100_per_cent of the citizenry, because it deserves it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.86.0	Yeah. Madam Member, I very much agree with what you have said. I mean, I'm also in direct contact with the city. I assure you that you have pitied me in this country during these fourteen months, as I think perhaps a few other presidents. And so, I've talked to a lot of people. I've talked to unions, I've talked to entrepreneurs, I've talked to pages, I've talked to cultural entities, etc. And those three great consensuses that all these people say have actually explained to me. First big consensus: don't consider..., 80_per_cent consensus, huh? I mean, country consensus, what makes us who we are. Let us not regard the monarchical institution as a proper institution. I think this is where we'll get to 99 per cent. There is a strong consensus that politics should not be brought to justice. In this there is also a great consensus of country. Third great consensus: it must be resolved, giving the view to the people of Catalonia, the question of the political decision on independence and the right to self-determination of Catalonia. If there are these three consensuses, why don't we defend the three of them? And I say to you, that now you have the occasion in these negotiations that you have between the PSOE and Podemos, what I do pray you is that you do not give up one of the great consensuss, which is the exercise of the right of self-determination of Catalonia. Don't leave Catalonia in the negotiations you have with Podemos and PSOE. I don't let her in, because she can't rule against Catalonia or the opinion of the Catalans. So, we're going to look for these great country consensuses, and I assure you that the solution for my good, and the one I'm trying to tackle among all the different political groups, entities, unions, employers, is that solution that for a band I give a protest response, that has to be there in this country, against feelings, if they're not absolutes. You're obvious. But there must also be a political answer. And the political response, which we also have to build, I have always said that it must revolve around two concepts: u, a democratic response; two, a response based on Catalonia's right of self-determination. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.87.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on territorial imbalances]] [[317-00123/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.88.0	Thank you, President. Many honorable President of the Generality, at the last session of control I asked him a question about the fires, about the fire of the Ribera d'Ebre, the Segria and the Garrigues, which originated in the Torre de l'Espanyol. At the end of the question, I expressed our concern about the heavy and growing territorial imbalances in our country, which suffered from depopulation, aging, impoverishment and abandonment of the territory. And that's why I want to focus my question on this today. What do you think you're doing, what is your government doing to face this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.89.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.90.0	Yes, thank you, Congressman. It's a subject that I'm going to talk about in the debate on real Catalonia, and I'm going to talk about it enough, because it's one of the themes that I've been absolutely obsessed with, if I may, ever since I joined the presidency. I do not want a country that is old to the Pyrenees or to the lands of the Jews, which are beautiful lands, but I want a country that is alive, a country full of life and economic activity. And, therefore, a sustainable and balanced country, which means that we stop using these empty words and we have them in their contents. I didn't just go to the fire. I, this weekend, was at the Ebre River to talk to the pages that were cremated on their barns, to talk to the pages that are to be faced with a really desperate situation. And you know what they said to me? That they would pull forward because they valued that land. And we have the duty, all the administrations, to give them all the help of the world so that they can pull forward. This is a theme, if I may, of the state, of Catalonia, of the whole country. Here we do need a pact of state, of all, to rethink how we want this country to live, sustainable, balanced, equal opportunities, to arrive. And here it does require the collaboration of all the groups in the chamber, because this went far beyond forest management policy or agricultural policy; it went far beyond digital policy, from bringing the web and optical fiber to the full; it went far beyond having the best paths that we should have, and a complete radial rail system that we should have. It is a cultural concept, which this country faces, to give value to the pagesia, to give value to its communities, to its landscape, in short, to the environment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.91.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.92.0	Thank you, President. I am pleased that there is a coincidence in the concern, and even in the visits – I also had the opportunity to visit the affected area and to speak with people – but it will allow me to tell you that it seems to us that, at least in what has been this first year of government, this has not been a priority. And, therefore, that the answer you give us, from our point of view, is insufficient. And you're right. This requires a Catalan consensus, but it also requires a state pact and even a European compromise. The challenge is so important that we certainly cannot face it alone, because the magnitude of the democratic and territorial challenges advises it. And, indeed, there are many things to do: fiscal and financial measures that promote economic activity and improve the quality of life and services in rural areas that are depopulated; we need specific instruments of action, and probably also specific legislation from the rural world and mountain areas, as well as the deployment of the Law of Rural Spaces. President, from our point of view, the woods are largely abandoned. We need to review the General Plan of Forest Policy. And it is generally necessary to increase resources to finance the policies needed to tackle depopulation. And perhaps, president – and I put it to you – I would like to set priorities, because it is true that we sometimes talk a lot in general. But I can mention thirteen communities in which depopulation is now a reality, because they lost more than five percent of their population in the last eight years. It's about the High Urgell, the High Ribagorça, the Lower Hebrew, the Bergedà, the Barberà Conca, the Garrigues, the Montsià, the Pallars Jussà and the Pallars Sobirá, the Priorat, the Ribera d'Ebre, the Ripollès and the Upper Earth. President, we ask you to act with strength and urgency, with the depth that you need. And you've asked for collaboration. Tea, by the way, ours. Cal, maybe, start with those that we could call comarques de obligada reactivation, because it's just and it'll be for the benefit of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.93.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.94.0	...from all over the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.95.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]] To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.96.0	Yes, indeed, you are of justice. For this reason, in the project "Living country, which we have already managed almost one month and a half ago, it is envisaged to act as a priority in two communities and start with four of them: the Alt Urgell, the Pallars Sobirá, the Terra Alta and the Ribera d'Ebre, precisely. They'll be the first four comarques. How will they do that? Talking differently with the country. First there will be a meeting in Palau with the Councils of Mayors and then a meeting in each of the districts, not just with the mayors, but with those social, economic, cultural entities that are relevant in that region. Because it must be the territory that explains to us which are their needs. And from here, work together with the county councils, with the mayors, with the entities. To establish this bilateral relationship, to speak differently from the Generality with the administrations. I'm sure this project will pull forward...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.97.0	President, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.98.0	...and we'll get it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.99.0	Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the actions why the Government of the State clarify the storms of August 17, 2017]] [[317-00125/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernat Solé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.100.0	Thank you very much, President. Very honorable President, the next August 17th will make exactly two years of the Barcelona and Cambrils storms. A few times claimed for the Islamic State where seventeen people were murdered, more than a hundred wounded people of different regard. A few moments that became, a sense of doubt, a time before and a time after in perception and in the management of security. Two years later, silences occupy more space than certain ones. Silences that extend the pain and suffering of families and a sincere country that wants to go into the dark and that demands answers and truths. Silences that hide responsibilities. Silences of those parties that vetoed the constitution of a committee of inquiry at the Congress of Deputies. Silences that have names and surnames, silences of ministers, the delegate of the Government of the State in Catalonia, the head of the CNI and the police chiefs who have repeatedly refused to compare in this Parliament. President, from this Parliament we want to know exactly what happened. We want to put all the light that calls on the evil dark that sees the families and, ultimately, the whole citizenship of this country; families that deserve a deep debate from the responsibility and from the utmost respect. These last few days we have seen how a media outlet has published various information about the alleged relationship between Ripoll's imam and the CNI; information that other times cast doubt on the security management of a state that always looks at another band. A state which has sometimes responded with a sepulchral silence to this information; a silence which neither values nor denies; a silence which widens doubts; a silence which, in doubt, also speaks. Before these facts, before these dark days, President, what is the position and what are the actions that the Government of the General has planned for the long term after two years of patience for so long as the Government of the State sets light and finally sees some facts that should never have happened? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.101.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.102.0	Yes; thank you, Congressman, and thank you also for the emotion of this intervention. The truth is that a terrorist storm, a storm of characteristics like Barcelona and Catalonia, so now it will be two years, demanded on the part of all a unitary response, a granitic response – if it is allowed – to defend the values of democracy. And, above all, preserved from the political debate for the fight of the parties, any attempt must unite us all against barbarism, certainly. And the answer... I'd like to remember... two years ago... now we have a chance to make a memory of it again. And this concept of remembrance, right? , of the facts, which means so much: the pain for victims, the accompanying for families, but also, if I may, feel proud of the response of the Emergencies and the Mossos d'Esquadra, which was exemplary. And at this point you also have to allow me to claim the excellent, extraordinary job of a high-level European professionalism of both Councillor Forn and Major Trapero. [[applause]] In the front, of an absolute professionalism. And this Parliament has done its duty. This Parliament set aside a committee of inquiry into the facts, and unfortunately, the main state parties prevented the Spanish Congress from creating the commission to save the facts and to search for the relevant explanations. And, certainly, two years later there appear some revelations in a medium that, certainly, because of the seriousness that those explanations imply, require all of us, first, to demand the maximum transparency and the whole truth of what passed – the whole truth. The government hasn't been quiet since we met. First, we demanded the relevant explanations from the Spanish Government, as the head of the CNI, which is, and, in its case, the clearance of the responsibilities that were due, at the highest level that any one could choose. Second, we sent a letter addressed to Vice President Carmen Calvo and the Minister of Defense, Margarita Robles, also in the same sense. And third, we've put ourselves in touch with the families that have suffered, some of the victims...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.103.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.104.0	...to alert them of this... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.105.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the work done by the Council Counsellor for the Impulse of a Civic and Social Forum for the Constituent Debate]] [[317-00127/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.106.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable President Torra, the crisis of confidence in the Spanish state of most Catalans and Catalans is growing and growing every day. Spain doesn't have a project for Catalonia. Spain does not offer or want to offer any future projects for Catalonia. The facts show it constantly, like last week's. The lack of information and transparency, as we have now mentioned, of the national investigative bodies of the State, with their clamorous silences and information around the storm of August 17th, or political espionage to the Government of Catalonia to departments and foreign delegations – here there are also many silences–, or to make it political on the part of the State, both of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party. The dialogue, to find solutions to a political conflict between Catalonia and Spain. Anti-politics is to prefer elections to dialects and solutions; anti-politics is not to respect the results of elections; anti-politics is not to respect the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia when the king of the Spaniards fails for October 3; anti-politics is to lose the president of the Generality of Catalonia; anti-politics is the bad policy of suspending congressional deputies, political prisoners, to alter most parliaments to be invested president and alter the votes of the citizenry. And before Spain's no-project for Catalonia and the anti-politics of Mr Pedro Sánchez and the Spanish State, in Catalonia, consensus, debate, plurality, freedom and republic. It is to say, project of future for Catalonia, as exemplifies excellently the Council Counsellor for the Constituent Debate that presides Lluís Llach and the work that has done during all these months. Mr President, what value does it make of the work done during these months for the Constituent Debate Council and of the objectives that they have marked in this new phase that begins? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.107.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.108.0	Yes; thank you, honourable Member. Thank you for this analysis. Certainly, a first appreciation: it seems incredible to me that in these fourteen months that I am serving as President of the Generality I have not been able to know which is the proposal of the Spanish Government for Catalonia. They don't have it. There has never been a solution proposal for the political conflict in Catalonia. And I remember who said that the political conflict in Catalonia deserved a political response was President Sánchez, in a meeting that we held together in Moncloa and then in Pedralbes he reiterated. This political solution that we ask for from the Spanish government has never arrived. And while, indeed, we are taking our way, because Catalonia has to take its way. As Renan says, a well-known and enduring phrase, the birth is a plebiscite of every day, and the birth was raised to where to go; it's question, it's argument, it's question. And that is what during all these months the Council Counsellor for the impulse of a Civic and Social Forum, encapsulated by Lluís Llach, has been doing. And today I take advantage of it to thank him and all his team, all the people who have spoken to it, with a great ideological plurality – I think this is the great uncertainty of this forum – so his work, which has given us a precise methodology to start, now yes, the phase of citizenship, the debate of a people who feel like they are, and I invite all citizens to participate in it. We have a great opportunity to participate in building that Catalonia we are. Now, therefore, this debate of civil society begins, which is the one close to organizing itself with the potential of the people they constitute. Now it's one of those times that the nation has to question itself and make this plebiscite every day. We don't have to do all the debates that surround us – all of us – that I was not afraid of in the dark of the dungeon. We are an empowered citizen who has the kingdoms of his future. We proved it the first of October. The first of October is the work of the citizenry, with a government that is not at the forefront, but it is the work of the citizenry. And now we start this new debate, which can push us towards a future of more freedom and democracy, the conclusions of which – I remember – will also have to come to this Parliament, in the end, because we also have this debate. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.109.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about waiting lists for public sanitation]] [[317-00122/12]] The following question asks the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.110.0	Mr President, health waiting lists have grown again in more than 91,000 people in a single year of your government. In view of this situation, what do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.111.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.112.0	Then I will answer it, but I have the question that I expected from you today, now... were your public apologies for the arrangement that you have been making during this year to the Masters and Masters of the Institute of Palau and their public explanations of apologies, because, after all that has passed, those Masters, those Masters need their explanations. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.113.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.114.0	I can see that I'm asking you about waiting lists and you're going to answer me about what's always going on, about the trucks that your team is preparing for you, and about the attacks on the first opposition group. We are the ones who control the government, not you, Mr Torra, and I have told you, about waiting lists, which has been a year of bad government, and many Catalans see their chances of being visited by a specialist or surgically intervened. You spend your days traveling with public money to the greatest glory of the process; you leave the offices of the Generalitat empty while you are being filled with waiting rooms of the hospitals. You are dedicated to sticking your noses in the shops to see if the language of the labels is the one you want; you are dedicated to sticking your noses in the judges' computers to know what you are investigating; you are putting your noses in the schoolyards to watch if teachers and children speak as you want them to speak. One million euros is spent each year not on reducing waiting lists, but on the Platform for Language spying on our children in their schools. They put the platform in the schoolyards with the excuse of doing a study, but no one wanted to sign that supposed study, because it's a shame, it's a political pamphlet. What a shame, Mr. Torra, to send spies to the schoolyards. Aren't you tired of being ridiculous? You love to make lists of good and bad Catalans, but waiting lists pass. You will not solve waiting lists in public hospitals, nor dependency, nor the problems of education, nor will you help families. Yesterday you repeated 'ho we will go back to iron, because it's the only thing you can talk about, it's the only thing in your head. The only thing you do is live by the story of the process, burden the Catalans and stick your nose in their freedoms. Mr. Torra, you have come all the way here with a cabinet made up of people as separatist as you, and you have all come burned, imputed, disunited and fought. They touched deep, as Mrs Artadi herself said a few days ago. This is the end of the road, Mr. Torra. Dismiss and call elections for the good of all Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.115.0	To answer, has the word again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.116.0	No, no; I was afraid, already, that the question would go on about the waiting lists. [[Rialles.]] Look, I'll tell them. [[applause]] "Citizens have evolved to a Spanish nationalism contrary to their ideal, by Mr Francesc de Carreras. So maybe it's just what just happened in your question today: really... the truth is that I also know a little hard to end up giving reason to Mr. De Carreras. [[the President of the]] But in this case, then, if I may, we'll end up giving him the reason. Now we will have occasion, in real Catalonia, to speak not only of the lists of health care waiters, but of many other problems, and with much taste. I assure you that I come with two-hundred-and-twenty-two proposals, which, one by one, we will comment on. But, on the waiting lists, first, that they know that according to the Plaensa health barometer Catalans greatly value public health services. Let's get started here, okay? Let's start here: the remarkable value of public health services. Remember, too – and I value the transparency of the data offered by the Department of Health, because we can effectively contrast this whole issue of the waiting lists –..., in Catalonia we are capdavanters in the guarantees in time of access. We guarantee more than the state. Example: We guarantee a time of access to oncological surgeries of twenty-two days, that in Spain there are no, or we guarantee access to heart interventions in the next few days, that in Spain they are 100_nights, okay? And we want to do even more right for people in access to health services. We are doing this, working, as you know – the Councillor of Salvation has repeatedly insisted on it – in a government decree that will include us procedures of guarantees in three new procedures with waiting time guaranteed by one hundred and forty days: the reconstruction of the mother, the reconstruction of the colonoscopy and the construction of the urethrostomy. We have priority criteria that must help us to keep this remarkable in the perception of the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.117.0	Thank you, President. [[General debate on proposals for real Catalonia]] [[255-00007/12]] After the control session, let's get to the next item on the agenda, which is the general debate on the proposals for real Catalonia. In accordance with Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure, this debate shall be governed by the provisions of Articles 154 and 155 of the Rules of Procedure and the duly agreed sequence for the Board of Spokespersons. As the debate is taking place at the initiative of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we will begin with the intervention of a representative of this parliamentary group in order to set out the reasons for the request, for a maximum of thirty minutes. Therefore, in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.118.0	Thank you, President. Today I come to talk to you about crumbs, or rather some things that you consider exactly that, crumbs. Do You Remember? Do you remember those statements made by the spokesman for Junts per Catalunya? If you don't remember, I remember them now. Look, Mr Pujol said the following, and I quote: "Sometimes we get distracted by issues that are not essential, that if eighty_y_five_days of waiting in health, that if they had to be eighty_y_two... we are fighting for crumbs. That's what his spokesman said. I suppose that is why we are here today to see this plenary, interspersed with another plenary, diluted with another plenary, celebrated in extremis because the regulation obliges them and they have no other remedy, because citizens have asked for it and are obliged to celebrate it. Because all that you consider to be crumbs for us are the crucial issues of the future of Catalonia. And it's a shame. It is a pity that they have not found a way to dedicate to this plenary the time and space it deserves. It is a pity that they have not found a way to dedicate to the problems of Catalans the time and space they deserve. Of course, I suppose going to Waterloo, to the Supreme Court, to Lledoners, to Strasbourg and to everything that the process requires, therefore, takes time for everything else. The problem is that 'everything else is precisely what they are paid for, and it is precisely why all the Members who are part of this institution come here to work, to work for the problems of the citizenry, to undertake the reforms we need, to seek solutions to the problems. I mean, for everything you don't do, because you don't devote enough time or enough money to it, because what happens is that you don't really care enough about all those things, Mr. Torra. And that's why we had to ask this plenary, and that's why you've tried to hide it. For what? Well, to keep him from being exposed to his inability to talk about anything other than the process. You are unable to solve anything, because you are not interested in talking about real Catalonia and solutions. You're only interested in one thing, you have one single priority: to do the damage you've already done with your separatist road map. And they make it clear to us every day with their attitude, with their government action, with their waste of money, with their journeys, with their words, Mr.Totra, «ho will return to iron – « we will do it again – yesterday you said it again. In case someone hadn't noticed yet, you're here for that and for nothing else, and you use Catalan money for that and for nothing else, money that should go to cover the real Catalan problems, but it's just that you don't care about that. But as we do, today you will have to listen to the gravity of all that you consider to be crumbs. And this time their yellow bond will not serve as a blindfold to cover their eyes to the reality of Catalonia, nor as a gag for those who, like us, do not shut up to their abandonment and abuse. They're going to have to listen to the truth about what's going on in Catalonia today and they're not going to be able to look the other way. Today you are going to take a bath of reality. Because your problem is not with the rest of Spain, your problem is with reality, Mr. Torra. They haven't seen more than half of Catalans for years, and now they don't see their problems, not half of Catalans, but of all Catalans. They don't want to see the serious problems that Catalonia is experiencing, they don't want to see the barracks, they don't want to see the waiting lists in health care, waiting lists in dependency. They don't want to know what happens to poverty, they don't want to see the lack of public day care, the insecurity that many Catalans live in neighborhoods and in the streets of Catalonia. They don't want to see anything at all. That is why this debate that we have promoted from Citizens is so important, because it is going to be their reality bath. We are going to degenerate one by one the challenges and the main problems that Catalans suffer, those that you do not want to attend to. And also this plenary will serve to tell Catalans that there is a party for all, a party prepared to govern and eager to work for real Catalonia. Look, I've sometimes told you to rule only for your own, but it's not even that you want it anymore, because what I'm going to explain to you today affects everyone, independenceists and non-independenceists, 7_million_and_half Catalans drifting, dragged away by their irresponsibility. We wanted this plenary to have at least one proposal for each of the government departments, but they opposed it. Parties supporting the Government opposed, said no, that with ten proposals it was enough. I, gentlemen of the Government, ask you: what departments do you not care about? Or are there some who think they're doing it right? Or is it that everything is crumbs, Mr. Torra? Here's where the problem is: that you believe that waiting a hundred and sixteen days in Reus to make a mammogram doesn't matter. I recommend that you put yourself on that woman's skin, in the anguish of having to wait four months to get that mammogram, when breast cancer, in addition, is the most frequent among the women in our country, although I don't think they are able to empathize or the least, because, if not, they wouldn't think or say out loud that something like that is tiny. And it turns out that, if you analyze the health map well, it takes only eighteen days to do the same test in Valls. That is, you are creating very worrying territorial inequalities, and this is an example: in Valls, eighteen days; in Reus, one hundred and sixteen days. That there's half an hour drive between one municipality and the other, Mr. Torra. I challenge them to call the patients. Ask them if they're willing to move around so they don't have to wait four months to get that test done. Let's see what they say, Mr. Torra. Pick up the phone. Pick up the phone and call, call the patients, ask. Or, for example, those who have to wait almost a year in the Trueta to see the neurologist. Really. I challenge them: ask the patients, see what they tell them. A few months ago they voted against our law to better organize waiting lists. I'd like you to explain why, why you don't want to manage things better. Because it's also a measure that doesn't cost a_euro. In just a year, and I was telling you now, my partner, waiting lists have increased by 91,000 people. In one year, Mr. Torra, in his year at the head of the government. I begin to understand why you did not want this plenary to be held. More than 175,000 Catalans are waiting to operate, a 7_per_cent more than last year. Almost half a million Catalans are waiting for a specialized visit, a 9_per_cent more than last year. The same with the diagnostic tests: 156,000 Catalans waiting for a test to know what is happening to them, much more than last year. With you everything is worse, because for you the health of Catalans is not important. I'm still on waiting lists, too. In this case, the dependency ones. Catalonia has the worst waiting lists for dependency in all of Spain. The average waiting time for a place of residence in Catalonia is twice as high as the national average. They have more than eighteen_ thousand people waiting to access a place of residence. And again, we see territorial inequalities that you create with your mismanagement, and there are bleeding cases. Look, in Sant Cugat del Vallès there are eight places available for every one hundred older, while in Ripollet, that is, in the same region, they do not reach even half the square for every one hundred older. Not half a square, Mr. Torra. Do you know what it is to have an elder at home and not be able to attend to him properly? And do you know who most of them work as carers? Women. A lot of Parliament of the Dones, a lot to fill your mouth with what feminists they are, but then not a single real measure for us. If we talk about disability, it doesn't get any better. Look, I'm from Tarragona. In Terres de l'Ebre there is not a single residential space for people with physical disabilities, nor a single one. So, since there's not a single square, what they do is they put these people... they award them a senior residence. Do you understand the cruelty of having that person in a senior residence? Do you not know this reality or do you care? I don't know what's worse. Of course, one of our priorities is to update the Social Services Portfolio and improve attention to dependency in all its areas, and that is why we have put forward a number of proposals in this House. We'll see what they vote for. At the Department of Work, you have a lot of work ahead of you, and despite that you are not doing absolutely well. They have completely out of control of the issue of unaccompanied minors. We carry months here asking Councilman El Homrani, who is not so alone, because he sees that this doesn't concern him very much..., we asked him what was going on, and he told us every day that he didn't go on, that he was all perfect, that everything was going very well. Despite this, two weeks ago the councillor took over and announced a plan of work for the unaccompanied minors, because they are outside the control of the DGAIA. Oh, listen, wasn't everything all right? When one thing's right, you don't have to announce a shoal. You always arrive late and ill. A few days ago we were also talking about poverty, we knew the Survey of Living Conditions of the Idescat, that is, a survey you do, a survey of the Generalitat, a survey with very worrying data. We have the highest poverty rate in the last 15 years. For the first time more than half of Catalans confess to having many difficulties to reach the end of the month. Twenty-eight per cent of children under the age of sixteen, young people under the age of sixteen, are poor, and one in four women in Catalonia suffer poverty. Do they care about this? Because they don't seem to care. Of course, you didn't want us to come here today to talk about this, if I understand. Of course, you prefer to talk here about your process, as you always do, but this is what I'm explaining to you is the reality of Catalonia. The fight against poverty should be at the centre of the Generalitat's action, but in its Government the focus of activity is the separatist road map, it tells us every day. He feels that he is dealing with those families who do not arrive at the end of the month; he feels that he is dealing with them and explains to them the waste of money he has spent on his process, the money spent on secessionist propaganda throughout the world, the wages paid by the process's plugs. Feel yourself in front of those families and explain to them, if you can, of course. Families who pay their taxes, who comply with their obligation; but you do not comply with yours. And since we talk about poverty and taxes, Catalonia is the region that has the most own taxes, and above all you continue to create more. You're choking Catalans on taxes; it's not Spain, it's you. We remain the most paying autonomous community in the IRPF. Look, in Catalonia, a worker who earns sixteen_ thousand euros a year will pay in income one thousand euros; however, that same worker in Madrid turns out to pay one hundred_eighty euros less. It's just that it's not Spain, it's you. I know you don't want to hear this that I'm telling you, but this is the reality of Catalonia, the Catalonia that you are creating. They have expelled more than five thousand companies because of the legal uncertainty they generate. You, Mr. Torra, in the SME Awards – I was there – it turns out that instead of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, instead of supporting the self-employed, who are creating and generating jobs, no, no, you told them that what they had to do was support the right of self-determination. I mean, separatism spends the day here imposing things on others. They require the shops to label at least in Catalan, to have the letters of the restaurants at least in Catalan, and if not, to fine the singing. A few days ago the ANC started a boycott campaign also for companies that are not related to the process. That is, in case it wasn't difficult to undertake, the brave one who dares turns out that you fry him to taxes, impose linguistic conditions on him, fine him if he doesn't comply with them and, to finish it, his coup partners put them on the blacklist if they're not related to the process. Of course, they are given much better black lists than waiting lists. I recognize it: much better, they are given the black lists. [[Greetings.]] Stop imposing your sectarianism. You have a serious problem with freedom. They invade public space as if it were theirs alone. The Catalan constitutionalists also live here, we are also Catalans, we are also part of Catalonia. I know it's a concept that you have a hard time digesting, Mr. Torra, because, of course, for you this thing that I'm doing here today, speaking in Spanish, is totally unnatural. But that's the way it is. And the streets, the squares, the public buildings are not just yours, they belong to all Catalans. I'm sorry to inform you, but I am. And, in fact, it is that you are now being prosecuted for disobedience precisely by using those public buildings as if they were the showcase of nationalism. It doesn't fit in his head, it's everyone's. They have a problem with freedom. Let's talk about justice, since you're going to have to go to court quite often, so it seems... [[Greetings.]] I invite you not only to go to the High Court of Justice of Catalonia. Go to the Sabadell courts as well. Go to Martorell's courts. [[Widow's remorse.]] Go to the courts of Gavà...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.119.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.120.0	...or those of Tarragona. Wow, go to those courts. Talk to the workers. Let them explain to you what conditions you are working on: at thirty-eight degrees – my partner told you a moment ago. In Tarragona, the victim's right to privacy is not respected. You, of course, go to the High Court of Justice and you, of course, do not go as the rest of the mortals to suffer what they are suffering with these facilities and with those courts that fall to pieces, which is that even the General Council of the Judiciary has had to issue an instruction so that the judges do not go to work, because of the danger it poses to their health. Go on, walk in, ask, talk to the workers. I announce to you, of course, that we are carrying a proposal for a plan for judicial equipment and also for prison facilities, and a proposal for the elimination of privileges, such as their suffocation, so that you know what the rest of the mortals suffer. Another one who also has to step on the courts, therefore, is his Home Secretary, Mr. Buch. Of course, it is very serious that the person in charge of the Mossos d'Esquadra is accused of prevarication and disobedience. Who are we in the hands of? Look: « Mossos d'Esquadra trained with pro-independence para-police groups. You are a public danger, Mr. Torra – a public danger, yes. Of course, our proposals for the Interior are not in this line, they are in another. We want to watch over those who play life to protect us... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.121.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.122.0	...that they have better working conditions, that they are well equipped. It's just that up to there you guys cut it, really. That they do not have to be subjected to political pressure, neither they nor the rest of the staff. Mr. Puignero, who doesn't care about what we're talking about... but, well, someone's gonna send him the question. When will the salaries be returned to the officials? When is the recovery of rights that were taken away from them with their cutbacks? And not just that, new rights. Look, we in this plenary, from Citizens, propose an increase in the paternity permit of officials. They have the skills to do that. Use them, use those skills. But, of course, we don't even have budgets. I mean, you in four hundred days what you've brought here... a bill, in four hundred days. It is that you are incapable of managing the government – incapable. Now, what's really good for them to manage is the chiringuitos. That's right, that's embroidered, huh? That's why you have ideas, time and money to spare. Look: « EUR 50_000 in expenses of Diplomat, banquets, gifts to journalists and EUR 300,000 to Switzerland. Another: « The Catalan embassies, the star waste of the Generalitat. Look at this: « Torra spends €420,000 on her new embassy in the United States and sells the process to congressmen. "The Generalitat opens three new embassies abroad – in case we didn't have enough with those that already have scattered around the world. That's what you use outer action for. They don't promote the Catalonia brand, the deprestigian. Every time they go around talking bad about Spain they're talking bad about Catalonia. Let's see if he gets into their heads, they don't understand. Delegations are to promote tourism, trade, culture, business; that is what external delegations are for, not to advertise the process and put out of justice. I do not know Mr Bosch if it is believed that instead of running a councilhouse what he manages is an ETT for fugitives from justice, because, come on, my mother – my mother. [[Greetings.]] Look, for a long time you have repeated and presumed how the world looks at you; however, in Europe no one receives you. You give lectures around, in Europe, that I watch how you give them: that is, you choose a city, you seek a university, you rent a room – we pay all Catalans, of course – and then you invite people who go from Catalonia. And when they come out of that conference they've given there, with Catalans who've brought themselves from here, the microphones waiting for them at the door are TV3's. Come on, master play – master play. The pity is that, of course, the show is paid for by all Catalans, Mr. Torra. I repeat that external action is something else. Can you imagine what would happen if instead of going around the world criticizing Spain and telling lies explained the wonders we have here in Catalonia, the enormous potential we have in our region? Can you imagine? Look, with us no one would have to imagine it, because we have very clear the value and importance of the Catalonia brand, which you are committed to destroying. Catalonia has enormous economic and cultural potential. The problem, as always, is that you don't care. What interests you – what interests you? Let's see if anyone can guess. Of course, the process – the process –, how not? Fix, look, another headline – there are quite a few here –: « Torra spent twenty-nine_ thousand_euros in an exhibition with fifty_y_five ballot boxes on October 1. I recommend you look for the news. I'm going to read a piece, because it doesn't have any waste. It says: "Basically the exhibition consists of exhibiting fifty_y_five ballot boxes used on the day of the illegal referendum of 2017, tuned to the liking of the artists," says the news, "all of independent sensitivity, to claim freedom. The exhibition, which was held in Brussels, was inaugurated by former Spanish justice advisers Lluís Puig, Toni Comín and Meritxell Serret. From Brussels the exhibition moved to Perpignan, and there attended Quim Torra, President of the Generalitat. Shortly afterwards, between 1 October and 25 November, it was exhibited at the Arts Santa Mònica centre in Barcelona, and the cost was almost twenty-nine_ thousand euros. This is your idea of culture. Look, culture is an element of cohesion, not confrontation; it's a terrain of opportunity, it's a terrain of creativity, it's a land of freedom. That they have a problem with freedom. But you're working on politicizing it. You make a partisan use of all the cultural events, you copy the events, the awards, the presentations. It is that they put the yellow tie even at the feasts, already, older, the feasts of the villages. Look, culture of course is the Berga Patum, but do you know what it is too? The April Fair of Barcelona. That's also real Catalonia, which you don't want to see. That too. [[Greetings.]] Look, from Citizens we will push forward a strategic plan of culture and art, of course depoliticized, where all Catalans feel identified. Because you have a serious problem with freedom, you are the enemies of freedom. In fact, we have already seen it here, it was talked this morning in the control session about how you have spied on the children to know what language they speak in the courtyard. First we saw it on TV3, with a documentary where the top priority was to know what the children are talking about in the courtyard and what the toasters are talking about. That was the documentary leitmotif. Beyond the ridiculous already toasters, what fabric! , we are very worried that a public television will go to schools to spy on children. And it's not an isolated fact, it's clearly part of a strategy. You have already eradicated Spanish from the classrooms and now want to eradicate it also from the courtyards. Another test: this so-called report, supposed study of Platform for Language, where unknown people have infiltrated schools by deception to spy on children in the courtyards of schools. Where are we going to get to, Mr. Torra? That is, this platform has also said that the councillor was aware of this study. This platform takes a million euros in public grants. This platform spies on children. Where are we going to get to, Mr. Torra – where are we going to get to? Yesterday Mrs. Budó said that, well, they're going to investigate what happened. It has happened that they have entered more than fifty schools to spy on seven hundred children. That's what happened. There's nothing to investigate. What needs to be done is to clear up responsibilities. That's what needs to be done. [[Greetings.]] And let me, Mr. Bargalló, invent strange concepts. That is to say, it has made me very funny, because you say no, that it is ‘observation of incognito'. Look, "watching incognito in my people is called" spying, of all life – of all life, eh? [[Greetings.]] And it's no method of sociolinguistic research, it's no method. You've been working out here for months that you're the highest authority in education, so be consistent and resign, take on your responsibilities. [[Greetings.]] Take your responsibilities, Mr. Bargalló. Look, while in the rest of the autonomous communities of Spain you have already put in place plans for English to be a vehicle language, here in Catalonia you impose a single language, huh? – a single language at school – a monolingual model that is obsolete, and again you create inequalities, again. I mean, in Catalonia it turns out that if you have money you can opt for an education in more than one language, but if not, then you have to conform to only one. You are condemning children from families with fewer resources, you are condemning them to inequality. But, of course, you've come to say that the Catalan school is a model of success – whenever you come here you say so, right? How can a model of success be one that creates inequalities between students according to the economic level of their families? What success model? A model in which, depending on the place of residence, there are up to eight times more opportunities for school failure. We have the largest number of school failures of immigrants from all over Europe, up to three times more likely to repeat courses depending on mother tongue and where there is greater dependence on academic outcomes and the socioeconomic situation of families. So, with these data, it's obvious that the Catalan education system doesn't guarantee fairness or equal opportunities, but according to you, this is a model of success, huh? The same goes with education from zero to three years. Many studies show that this type of education, from zero to three years, is instrumental for educational success and is especially important for children of socially disadvantaged families, who are precisely the least likely to access this type of education, because of economic problems and also because of the lack of knowledge of its advantages. Well, during these years, you have dedicated zero_euros– zero_euros– to the bressol schools. We propose universalizing education from zero to three. We'll take it to this House too, see what they're voting for. More things in education, because, Mr. Bargalló, you have work to do. Look, they have deaf children sitting in a desk without attending classes like the rest of the students because they don't have sign language interpreters. Yeah, yeah. But of course, I noticed you, we were told in a meeting we had with the parents of these children that they had no money, the usual excuse. What a coincidence. What a coincidence, because it turns out that to go visit the prisoners you do have money. « The Government of Torra, accused of spending 35,000 euros in one month – only one month – « on trips to Madrid to see the prisoners. Look, I tell you one thing, go wherever you want; if you want to go visit the prisoners, go. We don't do like you, who tell us where we can go and where we can't go, but do it with your money, not with the money of all Catalans. [[Greetings.]] With yours – with yours – of course, yes. Mrs. Budó said before we went to Waterloo. Paying us, Mrs. Budó, not like you, who went to see the fugitive from justice paying the garrigans, who had to return it out of shame. [[Greetings.]] Who had to return it out of shame, my mother. Go wherever you want, but pay for your pocket, not for all Catalans, huh? But, look, what I was telling you about deaf children... it costs the same thing that all deaf children in Catalonia have at school a month of sign language interpreter than their February visits to prisoners. It costs exactly the same thing. Do it – do it. On Thursday they will have the opportunity to vote a proposal from Citizens so that in Catalonia no deaf child will again suffer this abandonment by the Administration. This is not the first time that we have voted, Mr Torra. In fact, it's already been approved on several occasions, but those kids are still the same, they're still waiting, huh? That democratic mandate... you don't care about that one, do you? That doesn't follow him, just the ones he's interested in. Can you imagine what it's like to be in a class, sitting in a chair, watching what's going on around you without understanding anything, without being able to communicate with anyone? So you have deaf children at school in Catalonia, in your model of success. That's how they do it. Children with ASD don't get better, either. They still can't stay in the school dining room like the rest of the children. I really don't think of anything more discriminating than this. The new course begins next September. Of course, you have no doubt that in Citizens we will continue to work so that children with ASD have the same options as other children, as other students. You have already shown that children with special needs do not care the least. We do – we do. We will also be vigilant in the new school year. Which, by the way, is coming September, and will we continue to be the autonomous community with more barracks, Mr Bargalló? There are schools that have been in barracks for more than twenty years. There are generations of children who only know the barracks. According to you, in September you said it was the fault of 155; then, ten months later, you blamed yourself for the lack of budgets, and in two months, then, you will know the excuse that is invented. What you have to do is resign, because they have the school in very bad conditions, but very bad conditions. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Torra, I handed you a document a few weeks ago, I don't know if you read it or threw it directly, but it was a document with the calculation of what it would cost to remove all the barracks in Catalonia. I don't know... have you looked at him? [[Pause.]] Have you looked at yourself...? Do you remember, at least, that I gave it to you? [[Pause.]] No, no, That's what you barracks care about, it's very clear – it's very clear. [[Greetings.]] Of course, I understand that he didn't even look at it, because that document is quite embarrassing. Because you know what's going on? That with the budget of one year of TV3 would eliminate once and for all the barracks of Catalonia. No wonder I didn't even look at him. Shame on you. Of course, that will be another of our proposals in this plenary for Catalan children to study in conditions. I know he doesn't care, but we do. Look, I'm running out of time and there's still no areas left, because, of course, just as they have the picture and the situation, so it's hard to explain it in half an hour. In any case, our proposals, which we will vote on Thursday, stop in each and every department of your government, because not one of them is in good condition – not one. And none of them are crumbs, Mr. Torra, and in all there is much to do. I do not want to stop talking about the great problems of insecurity and violence that we are experiencing and which affect particular groups, such as the LGTBI collective. There is a very worrying upsurge in LGTBiphobic aggressions; however, the LGTBI Law remains in a drawer, undeployed. Is that why you want skills, and then you want to make laws that don't apply? That is to say, we have a law passed by this Parliament, we in Citizens want to put it into effect and to apply it once and for all. Do what you do, too. So much so that they complain after the competition, that they don't let them legislate... take out the laws they have in a drawer, deploy them, provide the budget. Another issue on which we are equal, macho violence. By the way, we have to regret today a new case of macho violence in Terrassa, where a woman has been murdered at the hands of her partner. From here I take the opportunity to condemn, of course, this murder and to show my support and condolences to the victim's family. See how much work is left to be done here? Next week you are going to put in place a plan for raising awareness among the young, which we of course support, but there is still much to be done, Mr Torra, in this area. A lot. You promised to bring here the Catalan pact against macho violence in April. It's July. They didn't bring him. As they have not brought so many other things, because you in four hundred days have passed a single law. You don't work for the problems of Catalans. And this subject, the subject of macho violence, cannot wait a minute longer. Today, a new woman murdered at the hands of her partner. Can't wait a minute longer. From Citizens we ask that specific plans be drawn up for the integration of victims into work, we also ask that they deploy once and for all Law 5/2008, that they provide it with a budget, that they bring the budgets here at once, that we need to ensure the necessary budget allocation to combat macho violence at all levels, increase the places of reception centers, increase the staffing of agents of Mossos d'Esquadra and the staff of the Administration justice that attends to these cases of macho violence. We need budgets, Mr. Torra. We need you to get to work. I'm going to finish – I'm going to finish – because, of course, you didn't want to devote the time you deserve to this plenary; then, you have to go quickly. I, even if you don't believe it, understand. I understand you didn't want to come here to talk about this, because, of course, the picture we saw from Catalonia today is not good – it's not good. The photo is not good, and the photographer in charge is you. It has been at the head of the Generalitat for over a year, and the only thing we have heard him say is that his priority is independence and that they will do so again. That's it, that's your star proposition. You have been given the opportunity, responsibility and honour to deal with the problems of Catalans, but you have preferred to choose the path of threat, disgovernment and victimism. Remove the yellow tie as a bandage, recognize at least the serious situation, emergency, that lives Catalonia. And, above all – above all – Mr Torra, correct, ask forgiveness and withdraw yourself, because yesterday again you insisted – in your "we will do it again" you said again – in your "we will do it again" we will do it again. Well, look, out of conviction, out of commitment to freedom and democracy, out of respect for the rule of law and for all Catalans, I also tell you that we will stop it again. Go ahead and let go of those we believe that another better Catalonia is possible. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.123.0	Congresswoman, thank you. All the same, let's move on to the intervention of the President of the Generality. When you're ready, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.124.0	Very good morning to everyone. Counselors, counselors, thanks. MPs and MPs, thank you for having this opportunity to discuss some more very important issues, some country issues. We have had the opportunity to present an assessment of the first year of government a few years ago; we will also have a general policy debate in September, and the Ciutadans Group thought it appropriate to introduce this debate as well. No problem, you're always good at it. But, honourable Member, I want to make it clear, before anything else, two things. I never say to myself again, ever, but never more, that I don't empathize with someone who suffers from cancer. I never said it again. [[Greetings.]] Okay? And I'm very sorry that you're allowed to make jokes about you who will continue to go to court. It seems to me, quite simply, of a bad taste – it seems to me of a bad taste – that reminds me..., and now I understand perhaps much better that definition, it seems to me uncertain, that made yesterday the GNP spokesman to the Congress of Deputies, of the band of mariachis. Actually, listen, you guys, if you're not the band of mariachis, you get a lot together, but in their case, plus, with one particularity, that's that you're not just the head of the band of mariachis right now, but you're wearing a bar, huh? Why do we still remember the famous photo of your Catalan street with bar, that, listen'm, we won't forget, eh? Because it's one thing... [[Widow's remorse.]] All right. So that said, and I have the opportunity to face this debate... but I did want to do that. Then... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] If the president allows me to continue...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.125.0	Yes; I was going to do it, President, I apologize. He used to ask for silence while talking to someone else.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.126.0	Thank you. I would like to begin this debate, in which first I will try to justify what I understand to be real Catalonia, after which there will be an economic bloc and finally a bloc as requested by the motion for a resolution, which says exactly ‘exposition or, in its case, formulation of proposals for real Catalonia for each of the spheres of government. And so we will do: for each of the spheres of government, I will move them... I have made a small selection of 222 proposals, which are the answers given by the Government to the situation of each day, to the management of each day, which, as you know, is our priority: working for people. The Catalan society is, by fate, different and plural, very different and very plural. And that some see as a problem, as a drawback, I see as one of the main riches and distinct traits of Catalonia. The Catalan society speaks more than two-hundred languages, even though some of them are so old-fashioned and even uncomfortable with one. The Catalan society dances and sings all kinds of rhythms, eats all kinds of procedural foods, combinations and elaborations. Catalan society works in many different offices; there are specialists in the most common and extraordinary things. Catalan citizens have all kinds of approaches to politics, public debates, collective concerns. There are more ideological and rational approaches, and there are no more experiential and emotional ones. And all these differences in the way of living and thinking are an immense wealth that, instead of being penalized and viscous as an inconvenience, should be celebrated as what it is. Catalan society is like that. And I'm afraid it's this diversity, this ability to adapt and this collective flexibility that explains that, despite all attempts to make us disappear as a people, as a willful collectivity, we remain alive and awake, prepared to speak to the world itself, as Josep Benet said, from Catalonia as a struggle for hope. It is true that some groups have grown up that have tried to bring into crisis this way of living diversity. There are groups that have been created to create discord and controversy where there were none. There are groups that have proposed to face identities, languages, cultures and territories. There are groups that today take advantage of generating frustrations, aging, hatred and confrontations. And this, I assure you, is not real Catalonia, quite the opposite; these groups try to defuse, dismantle what is real Catalonia. We already know that the group that proposed this monographic debate, the Ciutadans Group, has devoted all its interventions – and has seen itself in these thirty minutes – to talking about the process of independence at the time that they claim to others, to us, that we are talking about what they say is real Catalonia, meaning that the one that drives a democratic and peaceful process of emancipation is not real Catalonia. Curiously Ciutadans, to argue the petition of this monographic debate, dedicates all the space of his text to the process of independence and does not speak at any time of this other real Catalonia, as always. In his intervention, which opened this debate, they have also shown what Catalonia is that interests you, as always. We know that they do not have any plans for Catalonia, rather than trying to violate its diversity, plurality and coexistence. Because even though they want us to believe otherwise, the reality shows us that the path to independence and the good functioning of the country, the economy and public services, are perfectly compatible. And if there are complications, which I do not deny, difficulties in financing the programs that this country deserves, they are derived from a boycott attitude, interbanks and incompliments of obligations that have long been poured out by the State. I will go even further: independence, the republic, is the solution that we have tried to face some problems and difficulties that have been shown since autonomy that we cannot solve. And we have never been able to resolve them, governments that govern Spain. Incompliments, neglect and fiscal deficit have been constant and of the same magnitude when the PP ruled and when the PSOE ruled. It does not mean that the same thing happened when it was also a matter of suppressing the aspirations for the freedom of Catalans. That is why independence is our way of solving the problems of real Catalonia, that is, of Catalonia. Because of Catalonia there is only one, different and plural, but one. If you don't agree with this path, you're on your right, and your obligation is to propose alternatives, alternatives to solve all the problems in Catalonia. But I don't. Now I will show them, in this intervention, that the good outcome of the Catalan society is not incompatible with the advent of freedom, civil and political rights and self-determination. They're two caretakers of the same coin. Actually, they're the same way. He said this in a memorable phrase of his friend Muriel Casals: "To have a welfare state, you have to have a state. A few weeks ago I compared here to the plenary to do the balance of the first year of office, as I said, and in a few weeks we will do the general policy debate, as is usual every year. Today we are asking ourselves to talk about the proposals that this government has for "Real Catalonia," which you say. We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... I am convinced that they will also be talking about proposals and programmes. Like I said, I'll start with an economic block, which seems to me to be relevancy. And I also think that to address the situation in Catalonia, with which they would approach in any country of the world, we should take into account the global challenges, the global events that face our country as they face all the countries of our planet. Reptes like that of migration; in the European case, like European integration and Brexit; like fake news; as a worrying phenomenon, and very worrying to the Spanish State, the extreme right versus democracy. There are parties here that sign agreements with extreme right-wing and fascist parties, and that's the problem that the Spanish State has, that's the problem of living together that's in the Spanish State. Another global challenge: the configuration between the blocs of the United States and Xina, and we, which are an open economy, can suffer, the first, the consequences. Climate Emergency. Digitization and robots and work places. The depopulation, which we talked about today. Long-life formation, the whole cycle of formation, because formation is a long-life duere. The equality of genera. Or globalization 4.0. These are global challenges that any country has to face, and Catalonia is doing so. And first of all, as I said, I'd like to remember four figures, because it's important that we talk about data; all the debates that they want, with all the hard and cruel things they want, but with data on the table. The Catalan economy is fine. This should be the first holder of this block on the economy: the Catalan economy is fine. It's a country on the march, it's a country that's the point. We maintain a significant growth, a force superior to that of the euro area. We find ourselves in a more mature phase of the economic cycle, framed, moreover, in an international macroeconomic environment with many uncertainties. But we are looking at the new phase with a solid and strong economy, with a more balanced growth pattern, with a positive contribution to the growth of both domestic and external demand, and with a balance from the point of view of the productive sectors: all the large sectors at home, with the exception of agriculture, have had positive growth taxes, and, in the case of construction, has increased strongly, but far from the taxes on real estate cylinders. They keep the good records of the labor market with a new descent of the tax, the lowest in a decade. Just that a president of the generality comes out here and tells them that at these times we have the lowest rate of time in a decade should have any catastrophic speeches that you intend to move to the city. We find ourselves at the lowest rate in a decade, and this has been the work of citizens, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs in this country, trade unions, and citizens in general, who have managed to reduce the last seven years by thirteen points. Also in place: business confidence and entrepreneurial activity, profitability will finance in the field of enterprise, entry of investments and venture capital. And the number of active companies continues to grow. And, with all this, the public sector has made a huge effort to improve the financial situation and to recover public expenditure: for the first time in 2018 we completed with fiscal targets of deficit, debt and expenditure rule. 2018 we closed with good checks. We grew 2,6_per_cent, seven tenths above the euro area – seven tenths above the euro area. The twilight rate was at '11.5_per_cent, the lowest in two years. They grow in a 2.7_per_cent of the occupied people respect 2017. If the result is a year, industrial production will grow – if the result is a year. For the eighth year, we get a record of exports. And, as I said before, that's the first year we've completed the goals of the deficit, the debt and the expense rule. And 2019 is still working, because the Catalan economy is going well. And this speech in the affirmative can be done, too, because citizenship also needs to listen, when the figures are real, these messages in the affirmative, with hope, in the end, in order to be able to pull forward. What has happened to this 2019 so far? So that we have increased, from the first quarter of 2018 to the first quarter of 2019, also in a 2,1_per_cent; that they have lowered in a 2,6_per_cent the busy people respect a year ago, also, comparing the first two quarters of 2018 and 2019; that they have increased in a 2,7_per_cent the busy people also in the same quarter; that it has increased in a 3,3_per_cent the creation of entrepreneurs respect a year ago, in this case, for the semester of generating June of 2018 versus generating June of 2019 – a 3,3_per_cent of creating enterprises. And two data that are also important, because they show the vitality of the Catalan economy: they have increased by 5.5_per_cent the passengers to the airport of Prat respect a year ago, also comparing the two semesters generation to June 2008 and generation to June 2019, and the traffic of contents to the port of Barcelona has also increased by 7.8_per_cent comparing generation to May 2008 and generation to May 2019. Therefore, we come from a year when the Catalan economy went well. Let's keep this first half of 2019 going well, but this is a trend of the last few years. I had the opportunity to explain them, in the assessment of the first year of government, the paths, as the last years we have positive growth taxes, so, since 2014, huh? , and chaining up almost seven years of growth continued; as exports have gone from 48,000_million in 2010 to 71,000_million in 2018; as foreign investment looks at five years, which is the only way to capture its depth and with all its materials and details, it continues to grow and has increased the last five years by 45_per_cent. As I insist, we have been able to find this country, which seems to me to be a real historical qualification, to reduce thirteen points since 2013, which we had in 23,1_per_cent, in '11,5_per_cent in 2018, when Spain is kept in 15,3_per_cent. 15,3_per_cent, Mrs. Roldán, and in Catalonia the 11th and a half; after this apocalyptic speech you made here, I don't know if you in the forum of the Congress..., I don't know well what you would get them to say. As we continue to grow Catalan businesses or as, I insist, we have reduced the tax deficit. And this also in a positive environment in which it refers to foreign investments in Catalonia: Catalonia, again, better destination to invest in southern Europe according to the Financial Times. And some companies that have invested there: Enerkem, 260_million euros in a new biofuel plant that has involved one hundred_thirty jobs; UPS, an investment of 93_million euros with a logistics center that will involve four hundred jobs; Elis, 20_million euros in a warehouse of logistics and e-commerce companies in Valls ; NTT Data, the main Japanese telecommunications company, that has opened an artificial intelligence center for Europe in Barcelona ; Boehringer, 100_million euros in a new production plant in Sant Cugat. What I said to them, the growth of foreign investment in the five-year period 2014-2018 respects the previous five-year period has assumed more than 45_per_cent growth. Not just that. If we look at it and we still lower the magnifying glass or focus on tech companies, which is one of the sectors where Catalonia is emerging, as well as in the whole biomedicine sector, we see Catalonia as a position as a centre for technological reversal of top-class multinationals. As, for example, HP, a world reference center in 3D printing to Sant Cugat, which has now inaugurated, will now make its new plants, or Nestlé, with its technological hub, which has moved from Switzerland to Barcelona, and which involves 189 job openings; or Scaled Robotics, a British construction digitisation company located in the district @ 22; or Henkel, which has invested 35_million euros in a new aerospace industry hub in Montornès del Vallès ; or Facebook, which has invested 10_million euros in a content and user management center, not to repeat NTT Data, which I have already cited earlier. Yes, Barcelona is the first start-ups hub in southern Europe, and we are not greatly satisfied. Or news that came out today: Amazon just announced today that at a later date it will open the center set in Barcelona, from twenty-yield_thousand_metres_quadrats, to Barberà del Vallès – twenty-yield_thousand_metres_quadrats are four football camps–, with 230 fixed occupations. This is the reality, these are data, economic data, business data that move to Catalonia. But as I'm afraid I'll be told that this is the data that the president of the generality says according to the reports of his departments, we're talking about what independent bodies, banks, chambers and other colleges of economists have said. I attended the presentation of the annual memoir of the Chambers of Commerce, which, as you know, is done at the Sea Lot, with two very interesting interventions for which they came, I don't know if you were there. [[Pause.]] Yeah? Some of you were there. Perfect, so you'll know that the interventions of the Carme Poveda as well as of Mr Oriol Amat have given some information that, as we would say, the Catalan economy is doing well. I hope I wasn't denied that. In concrete terms, Mrs. Carme Poveda, who did an analysis of the economic sector in general, said that we are more prepared for a possible crisis, that we are more competitive and that we have a higher opening rate, with a record of exporting firms; that the economy has gained labor productivity; that the strengths of our economy can be based on internal demand, on the high positive external balance, on the growing internationalization of the business fabric, on the leadership of the most intensive sectors in knowledge, on the significant increase in industrial employment, and that construction is the sector that grows the most, but without excess, and there is more foreign tourism of quality. But it also seemed to me to be equally important and significant that Dr Oriol Amat's study from the point of view of companies – not of the economic sector in general, but of the same companies – had analysed a whole series of results made available to the business register, and therefore, they are aware that there are profit and loss accounts, the operating accounts of a high percentage of Catalan companies, which allowed them to close the next one. First: the Catalan business texture enjoys good health, and every year in better situation. What we generate rich: sales continue to grow strongly, more than 4.6_per_cent, and benefits too – important when it comes to a company – more than 55_per_cent. And that the return on invested capital is about 16 and a half percent. What is obvious is that at these times investing in a company in Catalonia is one of the most profitable options offered by the market. Also from the point of view of the financial situation and respect for the enterprises, from the point of view of the enterprises, I insist, Oriol Amat said that the capitalization of the enterprises with stronger balances and with more liquidity, and that the business growth was a balanced growth. Both Mrs Poveda and Mr. Amat used this word, "balanced and sustained growth, the robustness of the Catalan economy – this too would want to put a lot of manifest – with benefits..., 55,7_per_cent, I told you before, that they grow more than you sell them, 4,6_per_cent; that the actius, 2,8_per_cent, and that the debts, -1,3_per_cent. But no... some more data, as I said. In this case, of the Collège d'Economistes de Catalunya, which also..., four important data. Growth of foreign tourism: at the length of the first five months of 2019_has increased by 2.6_per_cent; however, what is more important, with an increase of the expenditure of 5.6_per_cent. Maybe this is the model we're interested in, right? , that it is a tourism of more quality, that I spent more in Catalonia, and not the name of tourists. In any case, growing tourism; as you know, it is also a very important data for the Catalan economy. Second: Positive levels of company creation in Catalonia. Third: "Foreign investment projects are recording the most historical – literal of Catalonia's Economics College. If you're flying now, you're going out and you're going to deny Catalonia's College of Economists. Literal: "Maximum history in foreign investment projects. And in exports, growth positive the first four_months of 2019, which, together with the increases sustained in later years, mark a positive trend of the economy. But the economy is still going well. O segui, les tendências..., so far, the result of 2018, the first half of 2019... What is waiting for us for the rest of 2019 and 2020? And, if it can be, with data that also gives us others that do not follow the close of the Government of Catalonia. So, according to BBVA, the GDP in Catalonia will grow by 2.2_per_cent, and by 2020, by 2_per_cent. Therefore, we have a horizon of the future, a horizon of the positive, of hope. And against that... the catastrophic and alarmist speeches play against it. And that's why they demand that the speech be in place, because we have to give hope to our entrepreneurs, too, because they have it, because the results so support me. Because if we are the ones who make the speech in position we generate confidence in the economic sector so that these figures can be overcome. These data were from BBVA. But, if you want..., the data from the Chamber of Commerce, which also places GDP growth in 2019 in a 2.1_per_cent, and in a 2_per_cent by 2020, very similar figures that also from the Government of the Generality, from the Vice Presidency, were offered last week. With regard to the weather, BBVA says that 2019 will have a weather rate of 10,8_per_cent and that 2020 will be down from the mythical 10-per_cent rate and we will be at 9,8_per_cent. Given, to my mind, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very. , because it is, therefore, Catalonia on the line of sustained and balanced growth, but also on the line of opportunities, so that we can also grow in places of work. More: between 2019 and 2020, according to BBVA, will create more than 126,000 job places, which will exceed our forecasts, of which I am glad. But let's not run away from what we need to get better, of course we do. I come from a culture in which just about the lessons then, I teach them learned, about everything that remains to be done, is what it is worth to put up with to see how we can do better and how we can face it. But who are these limitations? Some don't fall for us. Promotion of the Work. What did the other day promote work? That the infrastructure investment deficit in Catalonia in the last two years has been around 28,000_million euros. Job promotion, ten years, 28,000_million euros. I have never seen the Ciutadan Group... Unfortunately I have never seen the PP Group and I have not seen the Ciutadan Group either complain about this infrastructure investment deficit in Catalonia, which carries the economic results of the country. This is contrary to the interests of our entrepreneurs, our entrepreneurs and our exporters. Who are the other limitations of the country's competitiveness? Some others, which you can imagine perfectly: uplifting infrastructure that accumulates delays that make the competitiveness of the economy perish. Clearly, how many years are we in this country talking about the Mediterranean Corridor? How many governments, whether from the PSOE or the PP, have promised us the Mediterranean Corridor? The wheelhouses? What about the trailer drama? What about the railway and rail accesses to the port of Barcelona? These infrastructure structures are also an authentic limitation to the competitiveness of our companies. And as much as he refers to the investment deficit in infrastructure as to the deficit as related to these others as he commented, I think there should be a unanimous consensus on the chamber here. I do not think that in the Basque Country, no group – no group – has ever manifested itself against the quota with which they manage their finances. And let me tell you that I've never understood how these issues of investment deficits and infrastructure are pending, there is no absolute unanimity on the part of all the citizens of Catalonia, because that affects all the citizens of Catalonia – all the citizens of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] As CECOT also says, that 3,200 Catalan companies pay an energy surcharge since 2014 that they have quantified in 300_million euros. So that, gentlemen, affects all the entrepreneurs, 3,200 Catalan companies, who probably represent all of us here. And everyone here would have to complain and claim that this is not possible. And what else can we do, too, when I say we don't take refuge in what is not in the standards that we would like to have with the country? An inclusive growth, a shared prosperity. And that means better in the indicators of inequality, certainly. And we could say that income for the first time..., GDP per capita recovers the expected level of the crisis, and it is a very important and very significant data; that Gini's indexes are duplicated, for example, which is also a very important data. But they've come out, these figures, and these figures need to give us a touch of attention, and we need to put all our sights on reducing these inequality indicators. But we also need to take into account the advances in the labour market, in the reduction that we have achieved from the long-term nature of women and young people, in the reduction of wage inequality and in the recovery of power acquired. It's a lot of lei, of course, and here we all have to be able to make it grow, but I claim this lei recovery. Now, in denial, the increase in relative poverty; certainly, the figures explain it. And so, as we're talking about money, let's face it: there's an increase in the relative poverty, and the workers haven't regained the purchasing power of 2008. We're holding a slope. It's a repte, yes. And this year the Government of Catalonia, with all the difficulties we've been through, we couldn't work with it because that's possible. We hope that with your support and this demand that you ask all the groups in the chamber we can pull it forward. We also have a high temporality and a percentage of unintended partial work. We have a problem in population aging, certainly, and this has a remarkable effect on spending, and at birth, on the challenge of conciliation that it supposes for a country that needs an urgent cultural change, here. It calls for greater business investment in R & D and a better transfer of knowledge between research systems and business. It is necessary to increase public expenditure, especially in areas with greater economic and social returns. And, above all, it is an authentic cultural revolution from all over the country, from this chamber, from the whole society, for the fight against climate change and for the 2030 Agenda, to place it in the center of the political debate. How can we do something about it? In the first place, economic growth, this sustained economic growth of all these years, has to be translated into the better individual and collective, environmental, and greater territorial balance. The citizenry has to realize that this growth is up there, and this is where we have a way to go. Second, with a strategy shared between entities, businesses, universities and runaways of the country. And we are doing this, with the National Pact for Industry, with the strategy "Country of opportunity, living country, with the Covenant for the Society of Knowledge, with the Pact for persons with disabilities. And here too the agenda proposed by the Vice-President, the Catalan agenda for prosperity; important, because this agenda includes all government measures, approved or in preparation, to reduce inequalities and advance towards greater social cohesion. And all this – and they have to forgive me, because they know that, if not, it would not be me – we have to put it another time in relation to the systemic disloyalty of the Spanish State, because – again they are data, objective data – we have tools and resources, but they are not enough. Resources to meet the needs are growing less than the Catalan economy, and it continues to fund autonomous communities. The deficit targets – the vice president has done enough to denounce it – do not agree with the skills; zero deficit, 2020, when we have three pots of the welfare state. The state has reduced its contribution to health, security and investment. The financial model beasts have not been updated. This is all about us, our day-to-day. All this ends up affecting the welfare of the citizenry, if we cannot dispose of all these resources. And in spite of all this, the effort that was made, the past year, to complete debt, deficit and spending rule, was immense, despite the injustice that it implied – something that we have done and certainly not the State. Let's put together some of these state filletings, because sometimes we give them for sabuds, and the strength of the ciphers and make it come back to reality. First, the chronic fiscal deficit of 16,000_millions per year, i.e., 8_percent of Catalonia's GDP, according to figures from the latest fiscal balances published in September 2017 for the 2013-2014 fiscal year. And if you think it's not so, please, why don't you ask for the new tax balances to be published? Why don't they ask for tax balances to be published and we talk with more up-to-date data? The last ones that we unfortunately have are those that make reference to 2013-2014, and, according to the method used, the fiscal deficit oscillates between 16,000_million euros and 11,500_million euros. It is the same, agafem 11,500_million euros, like the fiscal deficit, if they want, that is the lowest xifra; a country does not bear a permanent fiscal deficit of 11,500_millions of deficit. I put them in context. In seven years Europe has contributed about 40,000_million euros to Spain, during the period 2014-2020; 40,000_million euros to Spain. Well, it's the same thing that Catalonia brings to the state in two years and five months of fiscal deficit. We have a model of discriminatory financing, and expired since 2014. We are the third territory in tax capacity and the penultimate in resources rejected in real terms. All of this should be voted for unanimously – for unanimously – because all of this is causing our citizens not to receive the resources or the services they deserve. The financing of the Law of Dependency has been incomplete on the part of the State, and that is as much as the Councillor El Homrani knows, which he can assume. Since 2013, the Generality has had to contribute more than 75 per cent of public funding, when 50 per cent should have been. 2017 the State contributed 16_per_cent, and the Generality, 84_per_cent. It's just that it can't be. That's impossible, because it's damaging to all of Catalan citizenship. Therefore, ask all groups. The chronic infra-financing of the public health system; this, too, will advise, you know very well, more than the State increases its spending on Catalonia with the basic health portfolio, with VAT, etc. Interior Councillor, the accumulated debt of 688_million euros for the financing of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra in the period 2010-2018 – 688_millions – calls it to the whole chamber, because they are money that affects all Catalan citizens. University scholarships: the judgements of the Constitutional Court that require the transfer of the management of the scholarships to Catalonia since 1994 are still incomplete. Not to mention the mythical third additional provision of the Statute to address the historical deficit in infrastructures of 3,710_millions of debt, which has not yet arrived and I don't know how many years we have claimed it. Or 13.1_percent of the budget in medium-sized infrastructure the last two years, the end of our population – of 16_percent – or of GDP – of 19_percent. And we're not talking anymore, as we've been through these last few weeks, about the scarce and minor assumptions. 2018 was the 58_per_cent of the forecast. And who says that? The General Intervention of the State. Does that sound good to you, to you, to the opposition? Or doesn't it look good to you? When the State General Intervention says 58 percent of the assumption has been executed... is that correct? Aren't we supposed to complain? Do you accept that? Because they're money from the citizens of Catalonia. And what do they translate into, these gluttonies and these problems? So, for example, in the case of rolling stock, that out of the 4,000_million euros of the Pla de Rodalies 2008-2015 only a 14_per_cent has been executed. Does that sound good to you, too? To all of us seems fine, that the State executes the 14_per_cent on the Plate of Rodalies? [[Pause.]] So imagine... Mrs. Roldán, who said to me: "Go see this one, go see the other..., go today to the station of Sants and explain these figures, to see that they look like them, to all the lords who are waiting for the rolling train, if it happens. And 2013 was made the special Pla d'acting 2013-2016, of 306_millions, of which it was executed the 12,1_per_cent. Well, this was the first block I wanted to comment on. A block centered on economics, a block of which the summary is that the Catalan economy is doing well, despite the disloyalties of the State, or so that the effort that this country is making is an ingenious effort, that we will never get to hear in its fullness and that allows us to end this apartment, if I may, with this idea of a country on the march and of a country that is on the way. And that's why they ask that when I talk about the economic situation in Catalonia, they move into all the forums where you participate in these figures, the real figures, the figures that give the chambers of commerce, the colleges of economists, the BBVA. I'm talking about these figures, giving a positive, reliable message. They make people return to the same willingness to continue investing in Catalonia, which they believe in their people, which they believe in their entrepreneurs. Give them the support, for a country that strives and learns every day. Our entrepreneurs deserve it, our entrepreneurs deserve to be spoken to with data and not with apocalyptic versions or without any contrast. And now I'm going to talk about each of the blocks, as the resolution demanded, and according to the plan of government that I had the opportunity to present to the chamber on his day, which, if I may, will be 264 performances. Because I have made it clear that in this country we are working for people, of the more than a thousand concrete measures that the government plan is marching and aspires to cover at the length of this legislature, we have made an effort to summarize it in only 264 actions, in four large blocs: first, a cohesive country with rights and opportunities for everyone; a secure, responsible and sustainable economy; a society strengthened democratically free and fair, and a Catalonia open to the world. We are there, therefore, with a cohesive country with rights and opportunities for everyone, educational and educational policies. The Pact against School Segregation has been signed with more than a hundred municipalities and agents of the educational community, which sets out thirty concrete actions and 189 measures in a new area and which has been an immense effort of concertation of all sectors involved in an issue that effectively needs to be resolved, counselor, and that I would like to thank you for taking it forward. The construction of twenty-seven schools and institutes for EUR 105 million has been approved, allowing the removal of a hundred modules. Thirty-seven actions of improvement and enlargement are due at the end, with a supposition of 152_million euros. And this summer will do 260 more adaptation and better actions for 24_million euros. In an effort that this government has made, and that I will go detailing for each of the spheres, 5,05 opposition places have been convened for teachers– five thousand opposition places for teachers. And this is a line that has followed both this government and the government of President Puigdemont. In the last four years there has been an increase of almost eight thousand teachers and teachers hired for public school. An effort that has been made since the Administration that I think should put all the value in it. The STEMcat program has also been created to enhance student interest in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. And two very important decrees, the policy of which I believe will also mark the proper parliamentary course: that of the admission of students and that of educational concerts, in order to guarantee the real gratuity of compulsory teachings, a balanced distribution of students with specific needs, and the principle – for us, important – of co-education. A bet that Councillor Bargalló has excited us to the whole Executive Board, the school's, and that, in addition, he connects with those old concepts of the Commonwealth and the Republican Generality, in this case with twenty-five new school institutes for the 2019-2020 course, to offer a pedagogical project and an integrated model throughout the school stage. Of those five thousand professionals, three hundred new professionals have contracted to better serve the studentship in the framework of the deployment of the Inclusive Education Decree to the length of 2018 and 2019. The steering committee of the training and qualification system has also been set up to integrate the initial, continuous and occupational VET into the deployment framework of the Vocational Training and Qualification Law. I'd like to make a short break at this point, vocational training. Stopping the visits I make to the companies in this country is one of the points that the businesspeople and the principals claim most from me. Yes, this country needs technicians, it needs specialized technicians. Businesses need this vocational training policy, which really has to be a State policy, also, if I may, pull forward, because at these very moments it is found that the lack of this qualified staff. And, therefore, it's one of the points where we'll put the most emphasis. A law has been passed that will allow the integration of educational centres of other holders into the public network of public centres of the Generalitat, with the aim of giving an urgent response to the current need for schooling, decree that we agreed with the sector. The basic document of the Catalan Strategy for Vocational Training and Qualification of Catalonia 2020-2030, which must be defined as one of the most important challenges of the country for its own years, has also been approved. And a map of educational innovation has been created, such as the portal of innovative pedagogical experiences, with almost two thousand accredited centres. Other data worth noting are allocated €2.6 million to training and placement programmes for the 2019-2020 course for young people aged 16 to 21 years who have stopped studying. Or work in us constructive criteria to adapt the different spaces of the centers to the challenges of education. Or a... if we did, and see that we did all the world's efforts to approve a premise that gave us financial and investment skills, so, much more powerful, we could finance more than twenty-million euros in municipal children's homes, and make the new line of groceries arrive far more far than it has just arrived. The second point, from this cohesive country, refers to health and physical activity. As you know, as a result of the legitimate and reasonable demands of our doctors and of all our healthcare staff, it was agreed to allocate more than 100_million euros in addition to primary care to improve citizen care. The 250 agreed places have already been covered to reduce the burden on professionals; therefore, I am completing one of the essential points of that agreement. I insist – today I have had the opportunity to talk about it –, the citizens value the public health services of Catalonia with a remarkable, according to this Plaensa, and the treatment rejected by the professionals is one of the most valued aspects. We will push – and push – mental salvation with reinforcement to the child and youth population, with community orientation and a new program for complex cases. We spend 70 million euros, 78 per cent more, if we compare it to the 2011 exercise. Or very concrete realizations: the works of the new Hospital of Viladecans have begun, which will entail an investment of 61_million euros. The first phase of the Joan XXIII Hospital has been approved, which will entail an inversion of almost 50_million euros. The new Smart ICU of the Valley of Hebron has been inaugurated, which will serve 2,200 patients a year, which is the largest in the State and which has involved an investment of 20_million euros. But we've got to keep planting our faces. We need to talk and start thinking and join the new Clinic, for example; the new hospitals to come. We guarantee right and quality. In 2015, 87_per_cent of the patients were intervened in the stipulated time. 2018 this percentage has risen to 94_per_cent. We also guarantee access time for cancer and heart disease interventions. And in the Order of Accessibility on Hope Lists being developed in the Department of Health, we want to introduce three new guarantee procedures and three new equity criteria: for breast reconstruction, for the reconstruction of colostomy and for the reconstruction of urethrostomy. The proposal was also raised because the Parliament urged the Congress to discuss the decriminalization of euthanasia and assisted suicide. And good data, good management data. A new record of transplants was achieved during this year's generation-May: five hundred transplants, a 16_per_cent more than in the same period of 2018. Or pioneering inaugurations, like that of the CAP de la Mina. And when before the Home Councilor refers to these barris safety issues like that of the Mine, they have to be addressed from an absolutely multisectoral perspective..., if I may say so, I think that just as well thought out as the Mine CAP, a pioneer in the new strategy of primary care and community safety, with a reversal of 9_million euros, and that he also assumed that in the same centre there is psycholegs, there are representatives of the assembly, and, therefore, it is much easier to warn of any problem than to the hospital to be able to deal with it immediately..., I think this is the way. They put themselves in the way of our CAPs, too, to Amposta and Figueres. Well, don't stay here: we'll renew 382 CAPs. We will allocate 30_million additional, until 2022, with us sanitary equipment, technology and reform works. We have created the Professional Dialeg Forum to find solutions with all health professionals, and measures have been put in place, such as recovery of payment per goal, or better wages at the ICS or in the concerted field. We will also draw up a new law of additions to try to reduce the consumption of tobacco that reversed the rebound in its consumption, after a few years of continuous declines. And a text was agreed with the entities, with the Law of Physical Activity and Sport, so that we could take it to Parliament and start processing it. You're more helpful. The night flight of the medical helicopter has been set aside, to give medical assistance with the helicopter for twenty-four hours. The Law of Creation of the Public Health Agency has been approved – very important – in order to give a more clean, responsive and flexible service before the present and future challenges and integrating the gender perspective. As has also been approved for the Prevention and Control of Hepatitis C in Catalonia, which aims to facilitate the adoption and implementation of measures to reduce the incidence, morbidity and mortality associated with this infection. The primary and hospital care for the summer was strengthened with 503 professionals. The Observers of Death were created to analyze the place and circumstances in which Catalans die. By September, a new web tool will be set up to take over the people who want their end of life and their death to follow. This late will apply a new model to prevent and care for excess child pestos. It may be worth remembering a problem that this society has: 35 percent of children between 6 and 12 years of age in Catalonia have an excess of weights. The following point refers to social matters and social protection, which we have not often talked about in the inquiries that the Members and Members of Parliament have made to me, as President, or to the Councillor of Social Affairs, but I repeat, what have been the solutions that the Government of Catalonia has put on the table during these months? First, to approve the Interdepartmental Family Support Plan 2019-2021, with €700_million, to ensure basic needs, support for families with special needs, support for the life cycle and reconciliation. The 2018-2019 Addendum has been allocated to the social services programme contract, which equips the local authorities with 230_million euros with the objective of coordinating, cooperating and collaborating in the field of social services, welfare and equality policies. EUR 432 million has also been allocated to projects and entity activities in the field of social policies in the framework of the 2019-2022 call for grants. A sham board has been set up to reduce disability and dependency rating lists. And the protocol for child abuse has been extended to primary attention, with the aim of improving case detection. And an important decree, that of urgent measures to guarantee benefits for the maintenance of expenses for the large people, who have benefited 28,000 people with contributory benefits. It's talk, and it's talk a lot, about the minor unaccompanied migrations, and I think we need to talk with all the rigor. And I would like to thank the Councillor for Social Affairs that these days are speaking with rigour and, if I may, with the right point with which to deal with this issue, because this is a topic that we cannot bring to a policy that goes beyond emotions. I think we need to treat it with the whole cure, how it's treating itself. Because this is it, it has been and will always be a cobbled country – always. And, therefore, with all the difficulties of some data that I will now put on the table, I think it would be worth noting the importance and the extreme professionalism with which this issue is being addressed by the Council, which I would like to convey, the Councillor, to all the team that has been involved. Just to point out that, as a society, we are facing all the folds: in two years economic effort has multiplied by seven in the attention of young and migrant adolescents alone, 72,6_million euros in 2018. 3,600 seats have been created in one hundred and fifty centres in the framework of this Catalan strategy for the youth's integration and inclusion. Here I would also complain about the opposition, because this is a global repte, one of those that gave them to the beginning, that of migrations, that they were able to have a long look, and a catalan look of embrace, which is the one that has always been this country. And, therefore, they also demand their support in these policies. A plate of care has been set aside for smaller street dynamics to detect the most complex cases, especially those related to mental health problems or addictions, in order to be able to attend to them. The National Pla de l'associationisme and Volunteer Horitzó 2021 has been approved. In Catalonia more than 1,500,000 people are linked to the associated fabric, and we have more than fifty thousand volunteers and volunteers. Jo, a little while ago, in a meeting with Voluntaris. And I've met with a lot of entities this year. For me Catalonia is this: Catalonia is this web of associations of all kinds, cultural, economic, recreational, oci; but where Catalans associate, there is a willingness to solidarity, to pull forward a project, which seems to me to make the country look like it is. And therefore, this plan I think is also a very important one, which gives value to associationism and volunteering, with the proposals that each of these voluntary associations or groups wants to pull forward. Also, for this summer, the program "Study is yours, with more than six thousand places for children and young people between 5 and 16 years of age. We note that 150,000 young people have participated since 1995. You know – we announced it, we explained – that we are working on the Catalan Strategy Platform for Sensellarism, which will give a common _mark in the attention of the collection of people without home, all localizing and activating equipment resources and serving each territory. And here we need, and we have claimed to the State, a fair distribution of funds recovered with 0.7_per_cent of the IRPF: another of the State's delights and that all groups in the chamber should agree that it is not acceptable, because it affects all our citizens. Catalonia collects the 25_percent of the entire state, while entities with projects in Catalonia only receive the 14_per_cent. This gap, this percentage difference, is affecting Catalan associations that need it to pull their projects forward. I don't know if they're independent or not, but they're from our country and they need it, and the state's disloyalty, another time, prevents them from pulling their work forward with their will and, if I may, also with the longings to do a job for the others, and I think that, like the government, we always have to be at their side. Finally, the public consultation before the Law of Social Concertation was held to consolidate a solid standard_mark for social concertation in Catalonia. The first integrated unit of care for children and adolescents who are victims of sexual abuse – public – from Catalonia, to Tarragona, in collaboration with other departments and administrations, has been set up. And a new calculation tool for investment in childhood and adolescence will be implemented based on a methodology developed for UNICEF. A fourth point, about this cohesive country block, is what makes reference to housing and basic sub-administrations. And here you know how priority is, the housing policy for this government, and how the territorial councillor has gone forward, one after the other, all the proposals the government has put forward on this issue. And it makes sense to think that the first measure we took as the executed government was just this, about habitating. Some of these measures, therefore, have been 138_million euros dedicated to social housing policies in the year 2018, an 8_per_cent more than 2017, which have been destined, with 73,000 aids, to the payment of loggers and have avoided 3,500 denominations. The Law 24/2015, on denunciations and energy poverty, has been recovered; therefore, the articles that make reference to the social logger and the compulsory cessation of housing of the banks, and we intend to apply them, are again in force. Two financing lines of EUR 250_million have been opened for the construction and purchase of logger habitat, to expand the social logger habitat with 3,500 short term habitats. That was the measure I gave them before. A decree of urgent measures was passed to improve access to housing, and we want there to be a parliamentary consensus to be able to bring it to this Parliament, because we believe that this decree is important, because we believe that housing must be a priority of all, and therefore we will start a new round of contacts with parliamentary groups, so that we can take this decree of urgent measures to improve access to housing. A law has been passed which allows for the limitation of the prices of wine in the barrels or in the cities where it is possible to establish a lack of suitable housing, a proposal which, in our opinion, is reasonable for us to assemble, in the line of which I believe that Barcelona was approved, therefore, yesterday, or has been established, and that a decree which, by the Council of Justice, by the Council and by the Council of Territories, has been submitted to the consideration of this chamber; we believe that it is essential and that, therefore, we will continue to work because this consensus, as well as that of the best of access to housing, if possible, insists on it for us, habitat is one of the main priorities and we are still working on it, therefore. Now, what's happened... well, you know, but it seems like all the electoral cycles have passed, it would be good for those really to fear fish, country, huh? , like those I am thinking about, especially, in the themes of housing, of limiting prices, from better to access, so we find those agreements and complicitys that, unfortunately, in electoral periods we were not able to find. We are working on the development of a comprehensive housing law that will bring together all the regulations that are now scattered – important. The tax on empty dwellings has been changed to include the securitization fund as holders of large packages of empty dwellings from mortgages. The modification of the planning in Barcelona has been approved, to allocate 30_percent of the new promotions or rehabilitations to protected habitat; one of the measures we took in the equal committee that know there is between the assembly of the city, of the capital of Catalonia, and the Government of Catalonia. A grant call with €8.3 million has been opened for promoters who build officially protected logger habitats. In 2018, 853 floors were bought for social loguer, through the tempteig and retraction, the highest xifra ever bought by the government until now, which will be destined for months of emergence. EUR 6.4 million has been allocated to pay bills for the administration of llars in situations of economic vulnerability in the framework of the social services programme contract with local authorities. A tax relief for vulnerable families in the water canon has been approved, which is a decision that can benefit more than forty_ thousand families. The keys to the later forty-four remodeling habitats of the Merinals', Sabadell's, and a promotion of sixty-five officially protected habitats have been released to Amposta, seven of which have been surrendered to the assembly. With the Ministry of Development, the collaboration agreement for the implementation of the State Housing Plan 2018-2021 has been signed, with a budget for Catalonia of 272_million euros, which will run the Agency of the Housing of Catalonia. And, as you know, it's working on modifying the Civil Code to draft a law that improves urban leases, to ensure the right to housing and that will soon open up to public consultation. Finally, 550 logger habitats are to be built that are comparable to different Catalan cities, works that will start in 2020, with an inversion of more than 63_million euros. And, to end this first bloc of the cohesive country, which refers to the arts, culture and language, because, for us, culture, yes, it is also cohesion, yes, it is also social politics. For the third time, he stepped out and moved forward with the program "Six years ago, sort a book, where more than 35,000 children participated. The Council of the Cultural Community of the four Catalan MPs has been set up, allowing this country, for the first time, to have, in its most important institutions, its own and right cultural strategy. It was celebrated a specific execution council focused on the cross-cutting of the Government's cultural policies, and now I see the deputy and ex-counsellor of Culture Laura Borràs, so, effectively, she introduced him. There are 208 cross-cutting actions on the go, such as the Government Agreement for the drive of Catalan culture and language abroad or the drive of document and data management. It has also been working in the Pla stratègique d'arxius de Catalunya, and two important works for me, although they may seem anecdotal to some: the construction of the Central Comarcal Library of Sort has been promoted, and, there we draw a new library, there is more culture and we should celebrate it; each new library means more culture. [[Greetings.]] And it's destined... what a fine job the Catalan libraries have done these last few years; really, excellent. And they have allocated 2,4_million euros to build the Garrigues District of the Region, with which, many years later, but we do tank and realize the old dreams of our views of the Commonwealth that, in every capital of the region, there is a district district. A new oral course of the català was presented, « Ep! Listen and speak, address people who are not literate or have difficulties with the language written as a basis for learning. Aid for the promotion of the audiovisual sector of 2018, worth EUR 10 million, has been called for. The action plan of the National Museum of Art of Catalonia has been approved; an important plan for the most important museum in the country, the National Museum of Art of Catalonia, which will make possible its growth in the Pavilion Victory Eugenia. Movies are boosted in catalá and support is given to one hundred and two folded films and to 469 in original version subtitled in catalá. We are also deploying the Accessibility Plate to scenic equipment, museums and monuments. But as we want a country to live, we want culture to come to the full and we have magnificent cultural equipment in this country, we have magnificent museums that we have to give you all the support, and therefore we have started the works of the future art museum of Lleida, which will entail a total investment of 4,7_million euros, and the Government will contribute 800,000_euros for the adequacy of the House Pastors, to the Museum of Girona. There are also works on the way to the Arqueológica Museum of Tarragona, and actions to start at His Vella de Lleida, the Dei Scale or Saints Creus. It ended this first block of proposals and solutions on a cohesive country, and following up on what Ciutadan's resolution asked me, which was that, for each of the blocs of councils, we explained what our proposals were, we are explaining not only proposals, but solutions, management, work that is being done every day, we would set up a second block, on a sustainable, responsible, sustainable economy, starting with the labour market and labour relations. We have allocated and will allocate, this year 2019, €920 million to employment policies, an 18_percent more, to reach 464,000 beneficiaries and prioritize groups at risk of exclusion, of course, as we have created the Commission to monitor the guaranteed income of citizens. And we must not let or forget, or I, at least, cannot let go of saying that the guaranteed income of citizenship, at these times, has an impact on the country over 120,000 people, that it has expanded, that we have grown and that we have also expanded the assumptions to better reach the collectivities at risk of social exclusion. We unblocked Martorell's Professional Automotive Training Centre, which was a theme that was a rock on Saturday and that has to allow us to have 1,500 technical automotive students come to Martorell every day to train in which it is one of the key sectors, the automotive sector, for the country. A package of support measures has been presented to women and men working in home and people's care; thirty-seven measures, in concrete terms. And we've approved a 6_million line to promote youth self-occupation for the years 2019 and 2020. A very important issue, that of the special work centres and a subject that we are very concerned about: you know that the rise of the minimum wage in Spain has caused, in many of the special work centres, difficult economic difficulties. We have allocated 42_million euros and added 7.5_million euros to minimize the impact of the rise in minimum wage, but we also need here that the State completes and needs the opposition that requires the State completes, because the special work centers are not independent or unionists, they are special work centers, that give work to the most destitute people. [[Greetings.]] And I'm very pleased to be able to say that we will call a hundred and fifty seats in the DIL project, with the commitment that the Generality must lead, as well as the Public Administration, to offer jobs to people with intellectual disabilities, also, in the country. Or other measures: we have allocated 7,75_millions to the impulse of the Singulars project, in the framework of the promotion of the social economy; seventy-two initiatives aimed at the territory. And a proposal that was put forward by the vice president. The procedures have begun to calculate the minimum wage of Catalan reference, the minimum wage of CAT reference, a differentiated wage for Catalonia, which is appropriate to our productivity and the cost of living of Catalans, beyond the minimum wage of the State. We are working in the regulation decree of the social enterprise, in order to establish the conditions that must be fulfilled by the enterprises defined as social, whatever their legal formula; and also in the decree of deployment of the territorial concertation of policies of occupation of the SOC, in order to achieve a better adaptation of the active policies of occupation to the real needs of each territory. Finally, we are promoting a new model for teletreball to modernise the Administration and improve the efficiency and quality of life of workers, in the framework of the Hourly Reform Pact. I think that these concepts of hourly reform and work reconciliation are concepts that can transform society, but that they also need a consensus on the part of all, at the same time the cultural changes, of the people that this implies, but that there is absolutely favorable. The palau, res begins, no public act does not begin after the sis. I also think that, from this point of view, the administrations must be pioneers and leaders in order to make these cultural changes for the country. I would preach to all of you, that you have public responsibilities, so that this idea of work reconciliation, of hourly reform, really, we believe and practice it. A_second point, from this second block, refers to the economy and hisenda. As much as I've talked about before, I'm picking up some data that I think it's worth it to insist on again. I told you that, for the first time, we completed the objectives of deficit, debt and expenditure rule, and this is the result of strict management, the rigour with which, day by day, this government faces problems. And this allowed Catalonia to join the funding facility, leaving the FLA behind, and the generality to return to the capital markets and be able to issue debt from 2020 onwards. We were going to expose them to the content of the preliminary draft assumptions for 2019. Unfortunately, the electoral turmoil did not allow us to find the consensus that I think the country would have rejected with great satisfaction, because the country is a mereixia that we have found the accomplices to pull those assumptions forward. We hope that, in the new negotiation of the assumptions for 2020, we will have the support of opposition groups, because this country must be able to count on assumptions that give it, also allow it to push forward policies of welfare and social progress. However, you also know that, in this situation of presupposition, we approved an action plan to meet the urgent expenditure of 2019; in this context, with a grant of a credit supplement of 814_million euros, which, together with other resources, will improve the conditions above all of our public servers in more than 1,039_million euros. The new Tax Prevention and Reduction Plan for tax fraud and good tax practices 2019-2022 has also been introduced. Already the previous plan, 2015-2018, has produced 740_million euros of taxpayers that do not complete with their tax obligations. Therefore, I think this cipher demonstrates the importance of continuing with this plan. The ATC has recovered 3,452_million euros in the concept of tax propis and cedits in 2018, a 6.1_per_cent more than the previous year. I, in the first quarter of enguany, has collected 758_million euros, a 7.3_per_cent more. The amendment of Law 6/2017, of the tax on non-productive acts of legal persons, which will help us and enable a fairer redistribution of wealth, has been approved. We have consolidated the deployment of the Tax Administration of Catalonia. We have reduced the debt with the joints, the local councils and the members in more than 90_per_cent in four years. That is to say, we have gone from a debt of 1,334_million euros in 2015 to 76_million euros in 2019, with which this also supposes possibilities for the joints and for the Generality. The tax rate of three taxes has increased, with an increase of 88_million annually: the tax on documented legal acts, the tax on the emission of nitrogen oxides to the atmosphere produced by commercial aviation and the tax on sports betting. And we are moving forward in the Generality's office concentration plan to the new administrative district that will be a reality from the first quarter of 2020 to gain efficiency. We have activated the Catalonia Aid and Grant Register, RAISC, which groups and simplifies all the information on grants and grants in the Catalan field and facilitates the processes and consultations of the citizenry in relation to this matter. We are working for a sustainable growth of the Catalan economy through taxation. We have promoted a new model of corporate tax policy to the public sector of the Generalitat. In two months the model and the strategy proposal will be presented to implement it. And we'll defend the rules of the tax on sugar beaks, as the vice president explained. A study evaluates it; it concludes that the tax on sugar beaks increases life expectancy, improves quality and reduces health costs. We follow from this bloc, from a secure, responsible and sustainable economy, but now talking about knowledge and innovation, which is also real Catalonia. Moving on to the national level for the knowledge society, one of the most important plans, in my view. The company triangle, universities, research centers is a triangle that can make us winners in this country, which can lead us to lead this revolution of knowledge that falls on us. And, therefore, the proposal has been drafted, the plenary, the permanent table has been constituted, in the next weeks and months we can already inform them of how it has progressed. 149 positions of teaching staff and highly qualified researcher have been called in the Pla Serra Húnter, 2018. Among others, technical aid has been called in to contract seventy-two researchers with a budget of EUR 11 million: INNOTEC aid that will benefit thirty pimes, and more than twenty technological start-ups have been financed. Ninety-eight industrial doctoral projects were launched in March 2018 and one hundred more in 2019 with the aim of stimulating the transfer of knowledge. The preliminary memorandum of the pre-project of the Law of Science has been approved with the aim of strengthening the autonomy of research centres and placing Catalonia on the agenda of the international investigation within the framework of the national plan for the society for knowledge. The third call of the strategic Pla for research and innovation in health has been opened, the PERIS, which aims at almost 8_millions in 2019 and adds to the thirty previous calls to hire young researchers. A call for public procurement projects for innovation in health has been opened with aid of EUR 14_million which the promoters of the projects co-finance with an equivalent amount. Spaces have been given to seventy-seven Catalan companies, mostly peppers, to the Mobile World Congress of Encany and to the 4 Years From Now to accompany them to the biggest fire of the mobile industry and thus strengthen their brand. The StarLife was presented, a unique infrastructure to manipulate biomedical research data at a cost of nearly €2 million, public and private funding. We continue to drive innovative public procurement to compromise, 20_million year 2020, and the Barcelona and Catalonia Startup Hub, a platform that is a finding point for Catalan start-ups to position the Catalan ecosystem in the world and capture investments, has been set aside. Finally, and from this knowledge and innovation block, the University Pre-Public Pre-Decree for the 2019-2020 course was approved, which maintained an 80_per_cent drop in the tuition fee for graduate students with equivalents to Tram 1 and 70_per_cent for social tariff system Tram 2 returns. In the next block of business and product fabric, the Catalan Institute of Finance has financed more than 1,500 businesses with nearly €600_million, creating new funding lines for green economy projects and social housing. We came to the compliment of the 87_per_cent of the National Pact for Industry, and we reported a few weeks ago in the first two years of force. This means that, in the years 2017, 2018, approximately 796_million euros have been executed. The Specialized Territorial Entrepreneurial Programme has been set up under the Catalonia programme with a budget of more than EUR 1 million with the aim of helping to build enterprise programmes based on innovation and technology. They have presented themselves and are unfolding the tourist marketing platform and the strategic tourism platform to increase the tourist's daily expenses, increase the tourism that they visit us outside of the high season and reach 10_percent of tourists located off the coast. We have also approved the memory of the Business Drive Act in the digital environment, and we are working on Trade Agenda 20/21 as a full route with lines of action to address the future of the trade sector such as iCommerce. We have approved the Single Business Window Implementation Plan 2019-2021. The FUE is already present at 97_percent of the municipalities of Catalonia and serves 77_percent of the population. We have developed the guide to encourage access to public contracts for peppers to facilitate the participation of peppers in these tenders. A 30-million-euro loan line has been created to improve tourist accommodation facilities, creating a new line of financing to boost the growth of pepper projects. It has approved, and it seems to me to be very uplifting and it has seen the consequences, the electoral regime of the Chambers of Catalonia, incorporate the electronic vote as the main novelty, which has worked perfectly and which has allowed to increase the number of enterprises and enterprises that have participated in the election of their representatives to the different Chambers. Support has been given to 23,300 companies, technology centres and entities in the year 2018, a 3,3_per_cent more than the previous year. The law is expected to be passed shortly to create the urban economic promotion areas, the APEUs, in the second half of 2019, to promote trade and strengthen the role of commercial associations. We work on a pepper adaptation plan for industry 4.0, and on a support plan for the automotive industry and the essential mobility for which it represents the automotive sector in Catalonia. The following point refers to agri-food policies. The Maritime Strategy of Catalonia 2030 has been approved to develop a clean economy in a sustainable way. It has reached, and is important, an agreement with the agricultural sector and branch to defend a Catalan model of CAP 2021-2027 that considers the particularities of Catalonia, the regionalization of foundations and strategic plans at territorial level to make a more efficient management of aid. The Català Council for Food has been presented as an analysis forum, debate and proposal on agri-food policies. The Professional Fisheries Governance Decree has been approved, with an innovative eco-management-based framework. The Catalan Research Institute for the Governance of the Sea has been deployed. A plan of struggle against African swine fever has been set aside to increase controls on exports and transport, and a contingency plan to prevent malalty, and it has been done by talking to the sector. The 2018-2020 Sweet Fruit Action Plan has been presented to overcome the price crisis. Three working groups have been set up to deal with the citrus crisis. The strategic plan for hazelnut has been developed. The Strategic Research, Transfer and Agri-Food Innovation Plan 2021-2030 has been developed. And it is working on the drafting of the new decree on organic agri-food production that will improve knowledge and efficiency in brand management. We have approved aid to 137 companies in the agricultural, branch and forestry sector, which will generate a cost of more than €6_million in cooperation for innovation. We have approved €5.3 million in aid for fisheries, sustainable aquaculture and the marketing and processing of fishery products, and we are in a new phase of development, as the gods say, of the Catalonian Maritime Strategy with the selection of territorial projects. God-in-law, counsel, the work that has been done this year; many thanks. If we believe in a living country, if we believe in a territorialized country, economically sustainable, we must give all the support to our pagery and our sector, also, fishing, because the only way we have to be a country, effectively, where everyone has the same opportunities, is to encourage everyone to have these same opportunities, and that goes by taking over our pages, giving value to the work of the camp and the work of the sea. [[Greetings.]] And that's right with the next point of territorial cohesion and the rural world, where I had to talk to you about the country of opportunity, Living Country, we didn't talk enough and also before with a question. I'm growing firmly there; it's a personal compromise. If we are not able, and Mr. Iceta asked, to balance... I think we are playing it in the proper two years, honestly, this point of territorial balance, and, therefore, it is such an important project for the communities in which there is a point of depopulation, that we need to see it from this transversality; it is not just an agrarian policy, it is a policy of digital policies, of justice, of history, of salvation and of education, eh? And in each region, we need to know how to talk and listen, above all to listen, to listen to the comarques, to tell us how they want to pull forward, who are the problems, who are the entities to which they believe we have to have as interlocutors, we need to talk differently with the country. Barcelona and the Generality have to talk differently with the country, we have to listen to them, and that's what we're going to do, so I insist, with these meetings, the first of which will always go hand in hand with the mayor's councils; the second, to the districts and with a permanent follow-up through, also, the local councils and the councillors of mayors to listen to them. And among these actions, therefore, also the PUOSC, which today also the Councillor of the Presidency has not spoken, and which we have been able to dissociate; since 2015 that we could not pull forward, and that we are relevant to our assemblies, 250_million euros that would benefit above all the small and medium-sized assemblies of the country in order to be able to do those works that they think they have more priorities. We are also driving urban planning of unsustainable high-pyrinium and gyro coast soils. We've subsidized residential building rehabilitation works. We have approved the preliminary draft of the coastal ordinance law and are developing the legal thing to be done by the territorial ordinance of Catalonia, which will materialize in the law of the territory and in the law of the mountain. Support and support absolutely to the Law of Agrarian Spaces, to ensure the productive capacity of the camp and to put in production land in waste. This must also be one of the important tools of the Viu Country project. The Urban Assembly of Catalonia has been set up, which will draw up and validate the urban agenda of Catalonia, the tool to enhance opportunities and face the challenges of growing urbanization. The processing of planning and management instruments has been suspended, and the granting of new works in the first five hundred_metres of the Girona coast. A decision, as you can imagine, was not easy, but a decision that made this government, consciously, aware of what we played with this moratorium. And it must be added that in the next eight years, the only ones destined for our growth have been reduced to 100 hectares. Almost €10 million has been allocated to facilitate the agricultural activity of 319 young people during 2018. It has approved – today we speak – the Strategic Pla of the Cos of Rural Agents 2019-2024. Eighty-three aid has been made available, with an investment of EUR 26 million, for the modernisation of regadius. Aid to improve agricultural competitiveness has been approved for an import of EUR 17_million. We have signed agreements for the implementation of the environmental project of the fight against the cargo ship and the improvement of biodiversity in the Ebre Delta, so important, councillor. And I... I don't know how many visits I bring to the Lands of the Ebre, which, besides, I have to say, every time you go there you don't fall in love anymore. The important thing that's this fight against the plagues, which, unfortunately, the delta itself now supposes, isn't it? And, therefore, here we also have to put all the efforts because also the delta, the Lands of the Hebrews, especially, also have all the opportunities. The call for grants for housing rehabilitation works and a new funding line of EUR 100_million for investments in rehabilitation, energy efficiency and accessibility has been opened. Finally, we are developing a new economic plan and funding regadius to ensure the execution of new works and the modernization of regadius. We will now go on to explain the measures we have on infrastructure and mobility after this point on agri-food policies. We have inaugurated the new line 10 South of the metro of Barcelona, with three stations: Foneria i Foc, in Barcelona, and Provençana, at the Hospitallet de Llobregat. And a new station is being built, that of the City of Justice. The construction of the tunnel of the three bridges, in the mark of the works of improvement of the C-14 road, to the Alt Urgell, with an inversion of almost 36_million euros, is being carried out. Public information has been provided on the best projects of the diagonal axis between Vilafranca del Penedès and Igualada, and the 16th district between Berga and Bagà. Both projects have an investment of approximately 280_million euros. EUR 430 million will be allocated until 2023 for the continued improvement of the road network. He's working, you know, he hasn't spoken to the Territorial Councilor, in the development of a new model of management of the high-performance lives of the Catalan road network, and his financing system by means of a flat rate, the famous winery. And we're working on the T-Mobility deployment to establish a new public transport tariff system. We approved the Decree on urgent measures in the field of passenger transport by means of the driver's vehicle logger, VTC, with, also, a decree that the Government, at a time of controversy, public debate, made a decision, and we kept it, and we ruled, and we decided to bring this decree forward, establishing the conditions of operation and control of this service throughout Catalonia. Not only that, we have provided 470_millions of subsidies to public transport in the year 2018, which has served to improve it, to encourage its use and to have sustainable mobility. We have approved the Investment Plan 2019-2022 of the Ports of the Generalitat, in a public investment of 30_million euros. We would already like to be able to make the investment plan, too, of the plan of the Port of Barcelona and of the Tarragona, but, unfortunately, they are of the State. It has constituted the working group of infrastructures and services of the Strategic Table of the Mediterranean Corridor. At the end of the year the deployment of the bus network of other Express services will be completed. cat, which will reach a total of forty-three lines. We are working on a new program contract with Renfe, which rules the contractual and performance conditions and the duration of the service between the Generality and the operator. The works of improvement of the C-58 between Terrassa and Sabadell began. EUR 43 million will be allocated for the purchase of five locomotives and sixty-six wagons for the transport of Ferrocarrils goods from the Government of Catalonia, in which, I think, we are looking at its forty-year anniversary, which we are celebrating this late, therefore, in an excellent way. It's one of the great companies in the country, and I can give it all the support; at least from this government we give all the support to Ferrocarrils de Catalunya. Work has begun to complete the station of line 5 Ernest Lluch, and at the end of the year the new metro station of the L-10 South, City of Justice, as it gave them to the beginning, will come into operation. And the last distance, from this second block, is from sustainability. Yes, this government, one of the first governments of a country that formally declares the climate emergency, which was not a rhetorical statement, but that was a statement approved, also, of foundations, in order to be able to take it forward..., if I may. They have been allocated and will be allocated EUR 58 million for climate change, which will be made available to industry for investment in energy efficiency and energy efficiency, and to boost electricity mobility. We have approved the Strategy of Natural Heritage and Biodiversity of Catalonia, with eighty-five lines of action. The Pla d'action d'avention de prévention du malbaratement alimentaire à Catalunya 2019-2020 has been approved; or the Pla stratègique PIRVEC 2016-2019, which extends the stations of Catalonia's fast-reloading network to eighty-eight stations for electric vehicles. Also, and very important, we are working on the development of the law of the energy transition of Catalonia, creating a Catalan energy agency to accelerate the energy model change. We have created the Ter Llobregat water supply system, the ATLL; a new public water supply system that will manage the Ter Llobregat water supply system, we will invest 150_million euros in five years, to modernize its installations and its efficiency. The Catalan Agency of Water, and I think it's excellent news, will be completely healed this 2019. Between 2011 and 2019, it will have settled a bank debt of €1,388_million. We are applying the Pla de gestion du district fluvial de conca de Catalunya. The preliminary draft law on prevention and management of waste and efficient use of resources was opened for public consultation. A new decree of cluster discharges has also been approved, which will guarantee the quality of soil and groundwater. Green and circular economy projects have been financed for nearly 20_million euros between November 2018 and May 2019. We have presented the energy service strategy to the Generality's equipment and infrastructure to ensure that the Administration's real estate park is fully equipped with net energy and near 2035. And we have held the first meeting of the Committee of Experts on Climate Change, which will have to draw up proposals for carbon assumptions. Finally, tell them that one-quarter of the contracts awarded for the Generalitat in 2018 incorporated environmental clauses: 2,133 contracts included conditions of respect for the environment with an assigned import of almost 500_million euros. And now I go to the third block, in which I expose, department by department, as you said, what are the measures we have since the Government of the Generality to bring forward the Government of this country, which refers to a society that is strengthened democratically, free and just, and the first point of which is: open government and institutional quality. The Electronic Voting Law Project has been approved for Catalans and Catalans residing abroad. The open data strategy of the Government of Catalonia and accession to the International Open Data Charter have been approved. The 2012-2020 Participation Performance Plan of the Transparent Government Network has been approved. The development of the strategy of the fight against corruption and the strengthening of public integrity in the six-month period to be counted from June 2019 has been approved. The Open Government Plan 2019-2020 has been approved, with a hundred actions consolidating the transparency strategy to build a society of high democratic quality. A new tool has been created to know the generality's accounts in detail: open assumptions. Structural debates have been launched around public policies to incorporate the views of the citizenry into government decisions; for example, on Pla Europe to discuss the major problems of the European Union. It has become part of the Open Data Charter, an international recognition for open data policy. They are members of more than seventy governments and organizations. An extraordinary contribution of 20_million euros has been approved for the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation, so you can pay the VAT after the change of criteria of the ministry. The Social Innovation Plan in democratic and good governance is being designed to introduce the innovation of better democracy into civic and collaborative spaces. And the rule of development of Law 19/2014, of transparency, access to public information and good governance, is being elaborated, with the expectation that the tenguem approved at the length of the second half of enguany. In digital policies, the one we have done so far, they are a priority for this Government, and they are the first government in the country to have a specific consultancy dedicated to digital policies, has been, as you know, sign, together with the Government of Catalonia with the four deputies, the National Commitment for the Deployment of Optical Fibre, to connect all the capitals of the region by 2020, and all the municipalities of more than fifty inhabitants by 2023. Only this year has the deployment of 626 kilometers of optical fiber been promoted. And this, precisely, is one of the essential points of territorial balance and of the Live Country project. We need those communities we're talking about to get the optical fiber, because they have the same opportunities as the rest of the country. We have consolidated international technological developments already implemented, such as Mobile. And we have no interest in us, like the Integrated Systems Europe, the most important video event that is taking place in Europe, and that until now was taking place in the Fira d'Amsterdam, and that from then on will be held in Barcelona. The Safe Internet program has been launched to raise awareness of citizenry in cybersecurity. We presented – we presented it together, counselor, and it was a great honor – the first Catalan letter for the rights and digital responsibilities, with the will to guarantee Catalonia the rights and freedom of speech, also in the digital era, not only in the real era. How we would like these rights and freedoms that we were able to approve in the digital age we had recognized and respected also in the real world! The digital culture platform 19-20-22 has been finalized to enhance the innovation and digitalization of cultural enterprises, and to promote Catalonia's positioning as an innovative country and the ability to attract creative talent. And the Statutes of the Catalan Cybersecurity Agency are being developed. We have approved the 5G strategy of the country, and we have worked to put the Barcelona Digital Talent on the market, a public-private initiative that seeks to create and retain professionals with digital skills in Barcelona, and to capture international talent. We have also approved the first blockchain strategy, and is ready to begin its deployment within the Administration, with the aim of positioning Catalonia as a pioneer in this technology. We are deploying Catalonia's digital strategy to make Catalonia a technological hub of international prestige and make it a digital nation. We also boost drone technology to the country, and within the Generality, in the framework of the expansion of the facilities of the Barcelona Dron Center, to Moià, center that is one of the only technological facilities dedicated to drones that is all over the world – to Moià. This is what we need, precisely, for the country living and balanced: that we have the drones to Moià, and that we have Olot the winners of the Pritzker architecture drawing the best cases that can currently be drawn all over the world. Catalonia's artificial intelligence strategy is being developed, with the aim of maximizing research, innovation and the creation of artificial intelligence enterprises, and strengthening their competitiveness. And, specifically, will present the VIBRA information app and cultural agenda, which allows the evolution of the customized digital cultural notebook. I continue, from this third block, to talk about equality between women and men; the policy of equality. We have promoted the incorporation of the gender perspective into health policies, with a new model of endometriosis care, and we have protocols to follow up on pregnancy and the creation of an advisor council. The security protocol against sexual rape has been introduced in the middle of the night. More than thirteen thousand people are expected to be trained to fight sexual rape in the middle of the night. The Catalan Observers of Justice in Male Violence were created to analyze the judicial response to male violence and to improve its effectiveness. The Strategic Platform for Gender Equality Policies 2019-2022 has been approved, in order to overcome structural discrimination and develop and effectively recover the measures set out in Law 17/2015, of effective equality between women and men. We have opened the fifth call for the 2019 ICT Dona Awards. It must be borne in mind that 6,600 people will have been registered in the first year of operation of the Service of Accompanying the Victims of Crime, in order to be able to go to testify to the jutjats, avoiding patience and victimization, a very important fact. But this equality we must also transfer to the rural world, and that is why the Council of Women of the Rural and Maritime World has been created, to recognize the role of women in the Catalan primary sector. The Guide has been approved for the incorporation of the gender perspective into public contracts, also, also to public contracts, a new tool to achieve effective equality also in public contracts. We have approved the Pla director of training in gender equity, a pioneer in the field of administration, and a new treatment program with gender vision for all women interned in prisons in Catalonia, to seize them and prepare them for their return to freedom. They will guarantee, as I said before, a maximum of one hundred and forty days for reconstruction after a breast cancer, in the framework of the new decree of waiting lists. And it will allocate 32_million euros to eradicate male-based rapes in 2019, within the second Comprehensive Intervention Programme against male-based rapes 2019-2022, with more than one hundred actions. Finally, he is working for a national pact for the eradication of male violence in Catalonia. The work plan has already been presented to the National Commission for coordinated intervention against male violence. And EMPOWA presented itself, a project co-financed by the European Union to facilitate the access of women entrepreneurs to European finance and innovation. As for public administration, our proposals for Catalonia are the following. As you know, we have approved a public employment offer of 15,018 seats; as a matter of fact, we have increased the employability of the Generality. Enguany, 6,633 public seats called, 5.005 teachers, 820 squadron moves and 250 bombers. I would like to fill in the import of these figures, and the import takes into account where we came from. Unfortunately, this country had not been able to make a new call for bombers, the Cos de Bombers, in the last six years. With the commitments we've made, these 250 firefighters in the 250 plus 250 plus 250 over the next three years, a thousand new firefighters will serve our country. And this is a great effort, calling 6,633 public places, which is, I think, one of the most important measures the country has taken, precisely because through our public servants we can better serve our citizens. We have reached an agreement with the unions for the return of the 2013-2014 foreign payments of the public workers, for an import of 1,100_million euros; a pending issue, a topic that assumed a few waves last year, but a topic that we have been able to resolve, and we have resolved as we have solved all the waves that have been presented to us, many of them fair and legitimate claims, many of them that this country would be able to address if the disloyalties of the State were not the ones that are, and that, speaking, consensusing, dialogue, discussing and reaching agreement, all of them will be resolved. The Standard Pla 2019-2020 has been approved, which you plan to process two-hundred standards in the next two years, more than forty-fourths of which are currently in progress. The decree is being processed to implement the electronic vote in the future trade union elections and the rest of electoral matters in the administration itself, as has been done with the chambers. The Regulatory Simplification Plan is being promoted to reduce the Catalan legal order. We have recovered most of the social laws suspected for the Constitutional Court, some for the withdrawal of the State; others for the government's initiatives; others, because they are in process, by means of laws on buses or by means of parliamentary initiatives in which we will introduce the corresponding documents in order to be able to finish them. In this part of the Public Administration I no longer talk about what the institutions had to recover after the application of Article 155, and therefore re-establishing a new Administration, but I do remember what the effects of Article 155 entailed: a direct impact on the assumptions of all, of the Generality, of all the citizens, by perpetuity, blocking or tightening. As it was expressed in all detail, it exceeded 1.800_million euros; 1.800_million euros cost Catalans the application of Article 155. The Ethics Committee Network has been presented to enhance ethical culture in the Public Administration. The Hourly Reform Office was created to deploy the Hourly Reform Pact, target 2025. An agreement on the internal training of public administration workers has been approved. We have created the territorial delegation of the Penedès, which joins the existing seven. And phone 012 completes twenty years with more than thirty-four million phone calls. At this time, there has been more than thirty specialized services provided by the administration. If any of you, some parliamentarians haven't visited this centre yet, I recommend you do. He will understand very much the services that are also provided by this phone, which greatly helps the administration's tasks. With regard to the part of citizenship and human rights, a plan that was a personal compromise and that we have been able to pull forward: the National Plan for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, to address from the legislative point of view, assumptions and public policies all the challenges that citizens have with disabilities. More than a million people in Catalonia have some kind of disability. And if we want a country alive, but we also want a country with equal opportunities, it's this collection that we need to take into account the most, because it's the most disadvantaged collection, it's the collection that we need to help treat equally, because we all really have the same opportunities. In parallel, it is working in a code of accessibility of Catalonia, always taking into account that our criteria will be marked to what the United Nations has marked for people with disabilities. This is the path we want to aspire to. And in this line the Civil Code of Catalonia has also been modified, to allow people with visual and hearing disabilities to do will without witnesses. We have created a new program of language and culture of origin of the student, with the aim of strengthening knowledge and believing that each student has his or her own family language and culture of origin. We are developing the law for equal treatment and non-discrimination, and we have dedicated more than €1 million to promoting policies to prevent discrimination in the LGTBI collection. In the last two years, the assumption for these performances has increased by 80_per_cent. It was a merit of all, but we were also able to reach an important agreement just before the electoral cycle: the Table of Dialogue of Parties and Entities against Racism, in which we committed ourselves not to making irresponsible use of immigration and its effects. At least here let me thank all the parties in the chamber for their willingness to address this issue, which is the will with which this country has always addressed the issue of immigration, with total respect and with complete compliment and strict compliment of human rights. The Civil and Political Rights Office and its adviser council have been created. The office has processed more than sixty applications, and, in parallel, with various associations, has presented the manifesto against violations of the rights caused by the events of October 1, 2017. The Catalan law of democratic memory is being drafted, for the international principles of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. And it seems to me important, too, this subject, for a country; it seems vital that we have all the value to democratic memory. To me, frankly, it exasperates me when I feel like I'm parted from the Spanish State that they don't want to know about the historical memory. It's exasperating, because we're just late, to this country, to historical memory, many years late, and all the efforts that have been made these last few years are worthy efforts, that are reversing the situation, that have allowed us to identify the first five victims of civil war and Francoism. And that's important. Every victim we can I.D.'s a complainer we're oblivious to. Every victim we can identify recovers our most essential memory. And in this sense, as you know, the driving force behind these memory policies was the Romeva Councillor, I would really like to thank him for all his efforts, and, of course, those who are continuing to make the Councillor. [[Greetings.]] In these two years, the plan has facilitated the opening of dissets and the recovery of 290 bodies. How important each of these recovered bodies, how important. The Comprehensive Plan of the Gypsy People 2017-2020 and its deployment has been approved, and the initial formation in Catalan language has been increased for people who access the first-time service. The Office of Civil Rights and Policies has published an interactive map of the repression of the first October, and has thus given response to Parliament's motion 51/XII, which I recommend to the whole opposition. It's very interactive, and it gives you a glimpse of what happened. I think that every Member of this House should click on this map and find out what the repression of the first of October was. It works to sign a convenient cross-border to search for European finance in the project of development of unification of senyalization criteria, in the framework of the cross-border project of memory routes. And, finally, we are speaking in the area of citizenship and human rights, working in the National Pact for Interculturality, for an open and diverse Catalonia, based on these values of inclusiveness, interaction, diversity and belonging. And finally, the last two aways from this third block are security and emergence, and justice. On security and emergencies, counselor, a thousand new seats have been created in the field of security and emergency, i.e., 750 squad seats and 250 firefighter seats, also with an extraordinary boost, as it had been years since it had been achieved. It is necessary to add the 454 practical steps that completed the training course and the 317 volunteer bombers who passed the basic course in June. It was agreed, we have granted the integration of the Mosso d'Esquadra to the Centre for Intelligence against Terrorism and Organized Crime, the CITCO, and it is working in the best of the procedures of the Mosso d'Esquadra before a terrorist storm. The police device Ubiq has been implemented in Ciutat Vella, Barcelona, which involves an increase of preventive and uniformed patrols in those areas with a special incidence of robberies and drug trafficking. The equipment of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra has been improved, with a new police office from the Mossos d'Esquadra to Moianès and the construction of the new commissioner of the district of Jonquera, with a reversal of 3_million euros. It is driving a new legislative framework, which strengthens and updates the model of the public security system of Catalonia, putting forward two very important new laws: the Law of Police of Catalonia and the Law of Emergencies and Civil Protection of Catalonia. We have improved the reorganisation of the Central Chamber of Bombers and Cecat in Barcelona and Tarragona. Another of the claims we found, counselor, was certainly from the bombers' collection. And speaking with them, discussing with them but agreeing with them we came to sign, with them, an agreement that improves their working conditions after more than two years of claims. Among other things, as I said before, it will involve the call of a thousand new places of functional bombers, but also more resources in materials and infrastructures, with 53_millions this 2019, that will allow us to buy two-and-a-half heavy vehicles or devote 18_millions of euros to the best of the bomber parks. We have also integrated the gender perspective into the training activities programme of the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia. We have granted with the General Council of Aran a new model for the management of emergencies that homologates the Aran with all the territories of Catalonia, but, moreover, it is given a differential treatment. And it follows with the Tram and Fixed Radar Plate to reduce the leftness of the road. We have installed tram radars, five at the length of 2018; the dock, at the AP-7 to Santa Perpètua de Mogoda, and two of us this 2019, at the A-2, between Jorba and Argentçola. And I say this with reference to what we set up, two weeks ago, the National Pact for Safe and Sustainable Mobility; we also have a challenge as important as the country, and therefore, counselor, all the support. I think it was an important starting point, this national pact, but we also need and demand cooperation from the whole chamber because we are playing a lot on the issue of safe and sustainable mobility. And, naturally, he wanted to refer to the fires of the Ribera d'Ebre. As you know, I think that this country is acting exceptionally in exceptional situations. We saw it in the fires. I've had the opportunity to see bad rail accidents. We all had more than extraordinary proof of the 17th of August, as they resolved. But I'd also like to claim the day-to-day life of our Emergencies, Bombers, Security personnel. It is on this routine and grey day, that allows the rest of us citizens of Catalonia to do our jobs, where I put the value, an immense value. And I'd also like to take advantage of it here, so I'd like to thank all the emergencies – all of them – for their pocket. Now we have a repte, now we have a repte region, which is the Ribera d'Ebre, after the fire of one month ago. Well, we've got to be able to coordinate all the help for those affected by the forest fire. We've had various meetings, she'll advise. I know we'll be back this week. We have to give all the explanations. I think the best we can do is above all be very aware of the situation in which we find ourselves. Say: 'Escorti'm, this is the proposal for solutions that the Government of the Generality has. I, this weekend, as I insist, had the opportunity to talk to Pau Ciuraneta and Pere Jornet, two of the pages affected, most directly affected by the fire. And I saw how they were claiming our pages, the citizens, the inhabitants of the Ribera d'Ebre, is that we tell them what we can do. They'll throw away because they think of themselves as their land. And they said to me, "We will go forward because we regard this land, but tell us how you can help us, right? And I think it is very important that, in these own meetings, we continue to succeed, in an orderly, centralized, systematized way, in giving response to the citizen when the more they need, and, in this case, our compatriots from the Ribera d'Ebre need it. Also – I finish – will realize the resilience plan before risk situations and emergencies in Catalonia, which incorporates the active participation of the citizenry and also develops the rehabilitation phase. Finally, in this third block – we have another one – there is justice and all the activities that have taken place since the Council of Justice. Seven new rooms have been built in Lleida's judicial building; more than EUR 5 million have been invested in the works of the Palau de Justicia de Tortosa; its Catalonian electronic judiciary and the Carpeta de la ciutadania have been created, because it is possible to access information, procedures and electronic services of the Administration of Justice; four new residences have been opened for prisoners arriving at the end of the sentence in semi-freedom, to the High Empordà, to the Baix Penedès, to the Lower Llobregat and to the Barcelones, and in the three previous years more than EUR 100 million will be allocated to us. More than half a million euros has been allocated to the contract of the Service of Attention to the Intellectual and Development Disability of the inmates of the prisons. It is about enabling a positive rehabilitation process and improving the quality of life of people. The preliminary memory of the draft law updating the Civil Code of Catalonia has been approved, in line with the deletion of the masclistic expressions and because the psychological maltreatment that represents one_of_each_maltreatments is a cause of disinheritance. A law is being drafted to encourage mediation in family conflicts, especially with smaller ones involved. They have allocated 7,4_million euros to the inn in march, from June 2018 and until 2020, of fourteen new jutjats to Catalonia. 2018 went into operation jutjats nous to Granollers, Badalona, Barcelona, Reus, Terrassa, Llobregat Hospitallet and Vendrell. The victim's care module has been operational in the criminal enforcement information system. Videoconferencing rooms have been set up in six prisons and three juvenile justice educational centres, with more recourse to lawyers and interns to ensure the right of defence and assistance. A deal has been signed with the Council of the Catalan Advocate to promote mediation in the resolution of conflicts. Thirty-five internment places have been created at the juvenile justice centres, in Montilivi and Til·lers, and it has increased from 302 to 337 places. Or the implementation of a selective collection system to the prisons in collaboration with Ecoembes has been promoted. The public consultation prior to the preparation of a draft decree, for which the demarcation of the registers of the goods and mobile properties in Catalonia is approved, has begun. It has been announced that Mollet del Vallès will have some jutjats to open the doors on October 2019. June 2020 will begin the works of adequacy of the Casa Serra i Moret building, of Vic, to be used for judicial purposes, with a reversal of 1_million_i_mig euros. By 2025, 40_million will be allocated to us judicial buildings in Catalonia. Finally, he is working on a strategic plan for the criminal execution of adults, which will seek formulas for decongesting prison centres, enhancing the reintegration of prison sentences, promoting the open environment, alternative criminal measures and conditional freedom, and betting on a model of participation and coexistence in the centres. Also, as has become clear, computer systems are being adapted to facilitate the use of català in the field of justice and to evaluate the normalization process. There is a data on the use of the català to the Administration of Justice. Only 7_percent of the sentences of our courts and tribunals are written in Catalan. I don't know if this is a syllabus that seems reasonable to Ciutadans. I don't know, I'd love to... too, huh? But it's a question that I address to you, because you're feeling them in Catalonia after 7_per_cent means it's not spoken in Catalan to Catalonia's jutjats. It's an exclusive realm of our language. And, therefore, it seems to me that it still justifies, therefore, that we still need to talk about the normalization policy of the català, because our language is found in equal conditions as the castle. [[Greetings.]] I, lastly, and the last block: a Catalonia open to the world. External action. Government delegations have re-opened abroad and the Diplomacy, and we are not very proud. We are not very proud of the Catalan delegations, which allow us to have a voice in the world to explain Catalonia, to help Catalans who are foreigners, to help businesses who want to invest. We also have Action's offices, of course. But we are not proud of the Catalan delegations that have opened to the United Kingdom and Ireland, Germany, Italy, France, Switzerland, the Balkans and the United States of America, plus the three new ones that we have opened: Tunisia, Argentina and Mexico. The National Plan has been developed to implement the 2030 Agenda in Catalonia and will be approved by the Government by September 2019. I think here too– and, if I may, this so-called so-called suggestion– we need to debate, this chamber needs to debate the 2030 Agenda in Catalonia. I think we need to give him all the value. I would suggest, therefore, that Suggestions seem correct, to make in its moment a monographic debate on this question. You think there are 920 commitments to meet the goals of sustainable development. All countries are immersed in this debate. And if we aspire to be a normal country, so do we. We have developed a plan for Brexit that defines a set of measures to be prepared and that bases the strategy on three pillars: citizens, businesses and the same Generality. We have presented the Pla Europe, an initiative to strengthen the Catalan presence in Europe and to put the European project down to the citizenry. And we insisted on the Spanish government's holding the sale of weapons to Saudi Arabia. We have sent a letter to six ministries of the Spanish Government from a motion approved by this Parliament of Catalonia. And so, and in the same line, we have declared Catalonia safe port and created a working group to gather rescue ships to the Mediterranean. Let everyone know that Catalonia is welcome. [[Greetings.]] The Pla Director of Cooperation for Development 2019-2022 has been approved, an important plan, a plan on Catalonia is often required with its plans for cooperation around the world. For our experience, for our expertise, recovering the goal of reaching 0.7_per_cent, with an increase of 20_million annually, the Programme for the preparation of the bid for the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games Piraeus-Barcelona 2030 has been created, a project that we also consider important when we speak of a country living and of territorial balance, and that we consider essential for the Piraeus, and, moreover, an opportunity for international projection and the implementation of the Piraeus comarques. We have exported Catalan culture to the world through the Smithsonian Folklife Festival 2018, through... Yes, it's not nrigu, Mrs. Sierra – it's not nrigu. It's just that you can't laugh about this. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, he can't laugh, that's right, because he shows a lack of respect and a lack of understanding for Catalonia's culture, his laughter, which seems absolutely intolerable to me. [[Greetings.]] And I find it regrettable – regrettable –, indeed. Miri, Mrs. Sierra, sorry. It's here. The Venice Biennale, the Fira del Llibre of Buenos Aires 2019, a cycle of Catalan art exhibitions at Japó... All right, continue laughing. So yes, all this, we export Catalan culture with all the pride in going to the countries and the world to explain what Catalonia is and what culture is and what we bring with the arts, with dance, with music, with literature, with painting, with sculpture. We want our creators to have opportunities to get out of the world and we will help them in whatever we can. The strategic platform for external action and relations with the European Union 2019-2022, which wants to make Catalonia a known and recognizable actor in the world, and which is committed to the 2030 Agenda and to the 0.7_per_cent of development aid, has been presented. The compromise has been renewed with the four engines for Europe, to increase the potential of these leading territories at European level, remember: Catalonia, Baden-Württemberg, Llombardia and Alvernia-Roine-Alpes. France and Andorra have been granted the new image of the Pyrenean Park of the three nations, an alliance that gives dynamism to this heritage of three countries. The action plan of the Mediterranean strategy will be approved and the Pla Marroc will be relaunched, with a debate on young people on the table, and the impetus of the European Institute of the Mediterranean. Jaume Plensa has been named one of our most important creators in the country, as ambassador of Catalan culture, as guarded with the Pau Casals International Prize. If I may, he was going to say that he has the honor of representing Catalonia, but I would say that we have the honour that he represents Catalonia. The call for grants for Catalan communities abroad was opened for the year 2019. Cooperation with the Regional Council of the region Provence - Alps - Costa Brava has been strengthened, with a protocol for the development of joint Euro-Mediterranean cooperation actions. The call for grants for the implementation of concerted development cooperation programmes and concerted education programmes for the development of a human rights-based and gender-based approach for the years 2019 and 2020 was opened. And I end up with the last point of the next block: the internationalized Catalan economy. In a way, too, when the block of economy was talking to them. But it's worth it if we go back. The Catalonia Exponential initiative has been created to capture the trends and technological changes that are produced by the world through the transfer of the Catalan business fabric, with two offices, to Silicon Valley, as you know, and to Seül. Business missions have taken place in Argentina, the United States, Ghana and Lakes, Hong Kong, South Korea, Holland, France and Germany, to enhance the internationalization of companies and to give companies the strategic contacts of each country. The Brexit window opened, as I mentioned before. A new edition of the Coupons of Internationalization programme has been launched, with the objective that one hundred and fifty pemas will receive aid of up to four thousand euros to start exporting. The week of internationalization is being organized for thematic days: industry, health, mobility and food, in order to boost the negotiations, open lives to get to us markets and put international projects on the market. A global map of international trading opportunities has been drawn up. A technical office of internationalization barriers has been opened. And the creation of an interdepartmental commission has been approved to help the peppers overcome obstacles when they export. A plan of forty-six actions has been presented that the Spanish government wants to claim to reduce the barriers that Catalan companies find to go abroad. And we are very proud that the Generality's investment-gathering strategy has rejected the recognition of the Financial Times for the second year as a result, recognizing Catalonia as the European region with the best investment-gathering capacity in the southern part of Europe. Finally, the International Technical Office for Public Contracts has been opened or the Fine Food Business Forum has been launched to connect producers and exporters of fine food products from Catalonia with importers and distributors of third countries. Work practices have been set aside for young people younger than twenty-six years in foreign trade and investment offices and the Support Programme for the Internationalization of Social Enterprises has been strengthened through a programme within the Support Platform for the Third Social Sector. MPs and MPs, you have asked us, as the government, what was each of the actions that each of each department was carrying forward. This is the work and effort of many people, counselors and counselors, and their teams. I want to thank them, because I think this exercise, if they want a thorough point, I recognize it... but it was in the resolution. I think we give it completely, let's say, rationally what you were asking for, but above all, I think that the message that we should send today from this rostrum is a message in place, that this is a country that is on the march, that is ready for the challenge that it wants, that it wants freely and democratically to pull forward, that the Catalan economy is going well and that all of us – all of us – are committed to this economy going well, because the Catalan economy, that goes well, that goes down well for all the citizens, whether you are independent or not. Therefore, I demand from all of you your commitment that, all the disloyalties of the Spanish State, we agree to claim them together. It can't be that this country is facing this fiscal deficit, it can't be that we have these infrastructure deficiencies pending, it can't be that the additional provision of the third of the State, so I'll give it to you or I won't give it to you as the wind blows. I think..., and you are also demanding the responsibility you have with your citizens because all this – all this – is a long way to the Catalonian economy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.127.0	Thank you, President. We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you. [[The session is suspended at a quarter of three in the late and three minutes and is resumed at four and four minutes. He chairs the President of the Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who is assisted by the Secretary General and the late Anna Casas and Gregory.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.128.0	Good afternoon; deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. Following the debate, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lorena Roldán, for a maximum period of 15 minutes, the first place is the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.129.0	Yes; thank you, President. Mr. Torra, two hours of speech to say nothing new. Well, let's not read anything new. It's strange to me that you didn't point at anything while I was talking, but, of course, how you get it all written from home, because it gives you the same thing as we say here, doesn't it? That is the assessment you make of what the opposition tells you. It brings its wording..., which, by the way, I believe was the same as the investiture debate, that of the balance sheet of the year of government. I don't know, don't throw the papers away, don't throw them away, you can use them again in the general policy debate, if they do – if they do – because we don't have a date yet. But, well, an essay that yes, I recognize, was worked on. The writing, alone. I think he has worked more on that wording than on everything we have in the legislature. This was written..., I think at least you could have done a bit of self-criticism, a minimum – a minimum. You have sold how well you do everything, how well the economy is going..., that I also tell you one thing: that is, you spend your life complaining about how oppressed and asphyxiated you are, to justify the coup and to justify that the laws are skipped, and then, on the other hand, you sell us how well everything is going. What are we left with, Mr. Torra? Are they suffocated, repressed, or is everything going great and the Catalan economy going great? What are we left with? Of course, it's just that coherence isn't your strong suit, huh? He also said that Catalonia is a land of accompaniment. That's what he's said a number of times. What has he rectified, you? Do you no longer believe what he wrote that the nation runs the risk of undoing itself like a sugar in a glass of milk strung up by the immigration avalanche? This is what you wrote, Mr. Torra. Well, something is something, if you've rectified; though I don't think so. You have also started talking about the diversity of Catalonia, the richness of your languages, haven't you? , this, at first. Of course, the same person who says that speaking Spanish in Catalonia is unnatural; the same person who says that Spanish speakers are wild beasts. But he comes here and takes out the richness and diversity of the languages. It's not very consistent, you, Mr. Torra. Besides, he betrays the subconscious. You referred to the number of sentences, for example, written in Catalan, and you escaped and said: "Write in our language. Of course, what is Spanish, Mr. Torra? What is it, Spanish? It's not his language, is it? No, no, of course; it is the language of the colonizers, as the Koiné manifesto says, which they like so much. It is that you betray the subconscious, Mr. Torra, as much as you come here and try to disguise something else. It's happened more times – it's happened more times. You've wanted to look good by highlighting how respectful you are with diversity and freedom, too, and you've thrown me in the face of me wearing a bar. What's the matter, that the bar is yours alone, Mr. Torra? I'm sorry to disappoint you: look, I'm wearing a bar, I'm wearing spardeños and a flamenco suit, if necessary. [[Greetings.]] I know you don't understand – I know you don't understand, I know you don't understand – but I'm proud of my roots; I'm proud of my roots as millions of Catalans who have more than one flag in their hearts, Mr. Torra. That you don't get into your head, but millions of Catalans feel that way – Catalans, Spanish and Europeans – no matter how much you don't understand. That's the real Catalonia, Mr. Torra; that's the Catalonia you don't want to see, huh? , the Catalans to whom we fit more than one flag in the heart. But, of course, you have abandoned..., that real Catalonia, no; you have abandoned all Catalans, all of you, the independenceists and the non-independenceists. Because the waiting lists I was talking about do not discriminate, there we are all, independenceists and not independenceists; poverty does not distinguish, affects independenceists and not independenceists. Mr. Torra, the stellate doesn't feed. Well, yes, it gives food only to you, which is why you don't let go, only to you it gives food. Stop lying and stop selling smoke. That only causes frustration among citizens. We've told him many times. You are generating frustration in the citizens. You have managed to leave Catalan society in two and have disappointed the two halves. You took a bath of reality here today. You have also shown a great ignorance of what is happening in Catalonia. You've come here to sell... I don't know, proposals that you think you're going to make. When are they going to do it? When are these proposals going to be made? Catalonia is much more than you see. In Catalonia, Catalans do not reach the end of the month. For the first time, more than half of Catalans say they don't reach the end of the month. Catalonia is also the one where accompanied minors sleep on the street, where there are more than half a million Catalans waiting for a visit with the specialist, where eleven thousand people have died without receiving the help of dependence that corresponded to them. But, of course, you live in your world, in your parallel world, in Mr Torra's world, in your ideal world, where the republic exists, where Puigdemont is the president and where Europe recognizes them. But I am sorry to tell you, Mr Torra, the republic does not exist, Mr Puigdemont is a fugitive and Europe has turned his back on them. [[Greetings.]] They have no majority, no social majority, no international support and no viable plan. At most – at most – they have Sanchez, but neither. It's been a long time since you dropped your face. And I think it has become clear, in this speech that we have made, and now also, that your problem is not with the rest of Spain, your problem is with reality. By the way, he told me, too, he blamed me, why we didn't make a positive speech. And you tell me? You who are the ideologists of « Spain steals from us, you who say you live tremendously oppressed. Look, the only repression that comes into you is the one that comes into your payroll every month; that's the repression you have here. Stop saying it, stop telling lies. Of all the sayings, you have believed them, because you have a problem with reality. He came here, too, and talked about the tax deficit. Look, not 16,000_million_of_euro, not 11,000_million_of_euro. Which is that Mas-Colell himself already recognized that that was not true. That of so much telling lies are believing them, Mr. Torra. They don't want to see the problems of Catalans. He doesn't want to see the barracks. He hasn't said anything about the barracks. They don't want to see the waiting lists. They do not want to see the lack of public day care, which has not said anything at all. Are they going to allocate some kind of resource, some kind of money, for zero - to - three education? No, nothing; you're not going to do anything at all. And, what I was saying, he came out here and explained to us things that you're thinking of doing, that we don't know when. Look, the one who sat earlier in his chair also said he was going to be independent in eighteen months and now he's sitting..., run away from justice in Waterloo. Stop making those promises that don't go anywhere. Many of the issues that we have dealt with and that we have brought to this plenary are not new things, Mr Torra, unfortunately, are not new things. Look, for example, I've told you about children with special needs, children with ASD. Two years ago, I myself, in this rostrum, defended that motion, with those requests that we bring back to you in this plenary. The motion was adopted unanimously by the whole chamber. What happened with that democratic mandate? They've got him in a drawer, dusting, because they're not interested – they're not interested. You who are expert in dividing Catalans have had the gift – let's say so – of bringing the primary care workers, the family doctors, the pediatricians, those of the concertate and the workers of the SEM, who have all been put on strike, Mr. Torra. How is this, that you are all wrong or the wrong one is you? We are not surprised; we are not surprised because healthcare professionals have unfinished agendas, and that is bad for them and bad for patients as well. But you don't do anything. What do you plan to do with the Barnaclinic? He didn't tell me. What about the black hole in Reus Hospital? Are they going to expand the Trueta, the Vall d'Hebron? All this I tell you is promises that you have made and that you have not kept. With the Clinic, what are they going to do, for example? I don't know; 146_days you have to wait there to make an endoscopy. What do you plan to do, huh? And you tell me about a decree to improve waiting lists, a decree that you haven't even brought here, Mr. Torra. How is that pointed out as an achievement, if we have not even seen that decree? This is a serious debate, this is not a letter to the Kings, Mr. Torra. Its incompetence is harmful – harmful – for Catalans. What else? What else did I point at? Yeah. You talked about culture and you talked about the importance of libraries, you said. Look, Barcelona is the only province in Spain that does not have a provincial library. Turns out there was money and there was also space, but they decided to use that space to spread the invented history of separatism. Do you know what it was, Mr. Torra? The Born Centre of Culture, the one you were running. And he comes here to say there's no library. [[Greetings.]] Man, please; please, Mr. Torra. You, in this legislature, look, the only decisions you've made are more process, more mess and more confrontation. Besides, with you as president, there are more embassies, yes. He came here and said how proud he is of the embassies. Of course, how they serve you to place all the friends, for you are very proud of those embassies. But it's not that there's just more embassies, it's not, it's that there's also more barracks, there's more dependencies, there's more poverty, there's more waiting lists and there's more Catalans sick of you with your happy process and your lies. Your incompetence robs us of the future, Mr. Torra. Because, while you have been giving millions of euros, 3,7_million_of_euros, to those who spy on children in the schoolyards, Catalonia has been climbing in the rankings to become the autonomous community with more barracks, the autonomous community where there is more school segregation and the third where academic results depend more on the income of their families. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, Mr. Bargalló, yes; I've already told you what to do before. You who speak of independence as a solution to all evils have despised the opportunity to work for the real future of Catalonia, which are the children, Mr Torra. I know you don't care. What else? Ah, well, yes, of course; you've pulled out the chest, too, you've been here thanking the counselors... well, it's just, of course, you haven't chosen the counselors according to your ability to rule. He doesn't care about that. What matters to you is that you are obsessed with the process the same or more that you are obsessed with. And then you choose them that way, with those criteria. And they are so obsessed with Catalonia's independence that they forget to manage real Catalonia. But the most serious thing is that they forget reality. I've told you before, if it's not a problem with the rest of Spain, it's that they forget about Catalans because they don't even see them, because they don't see reality. And that's why this plenary is called the Royal Catalonia plenary. That, that you don't see, that you don't conceive, that you don't understand as Catalonia, that's your Catalonia too, that's Catalonia where you are the president of the Generalitat. I... I don't know, we have more data that I haven't given me time to say, but they're also very worrying. In Barcelona, the life expectancy of family members varies ten years depending on the neighbourhood in which you live. You are creating very worrying territorial inequalities – very worrying. They come here to teach us about the state of well-being when investment in children is well below the Spanish average and in light years from the European average. How do you get your chest out of that, Mr. Torra? I said to him: « In Terres de l'Ebre there is not a single residential space for people with physical disabilities; neither has he answered me, you can see that it does not matter. Wake up. Wake up, Mr. Torra, at once. See the reality. See what's going on in Catalonia. We're beating records that we shouldn't have hit: the worst poverty rate in the last 15 years in Tarragona. He also talked about housing. Look, the Catalan law provides that the housing park has to have a 15_per_cent of social housing. Do you know what percentage we're in? In 2_per_cent – in 2_per_cent. And do you come here to say that it is a priority? Does he come here to say that this is a priority? Look, I'll show you the budget you're spending on housing. [[The congresswoman shows a full room.]] Half the national average. This is Catalonia, huh? ; Catalonia, Andalusia, Murcia, Basque Country, Navarre, Madrid. Look where we are. And you say this is a priority? So what a way to be a priority this is; it doesn't seem like it. Look, this year has been a year of disgovernment, a year of chaos, a year of paralysis, a year lost – a year lost –, in short, a year more of the process, another year more of the process. And on top of that, you keep repeating that you're going to do it again. Because that's all they care about: waste the money of all Catalans as if there wasn't a morning to do absolutely nothing, to get absolutely nothing good for all Catalans. You were talking, like you were saying about the tax deficit and you're always looking for excuses to blame others... but, look, I'm bringing you other data today too. I have earlier brought out news where I put, for example, that you have spent EUR 600,000 on travel, even exceeding everything that Mr Puigdemont spent. Your journeys have cost us dear, Mr. Torra. Well, look, with those 600,000 euros on trips you've spent, do you know what you could do? For example, pay the salary of twenty-six educators, or, for example, the cost of one hundred and sixteen day care places, those to which you do not allocate a single euro. With the 700.000_euros for Cultural Action of València, for example..., that would have served us to, for example, the salary of nineteen teachers, or the cost of one hundred and twenty-nine nursery places. And the most indignant thing, do you remember? The extra 20_million_euro he gave to TV3 – extra, as if they didn't have enough with the budget they have –, 20_million_euro. Do you know what I could have paid with those 20_million_euros? Look, 3,700 child care places, ten_ thousand university enrollments and eight hundred annual residence places, which have eighteen_ thousand elderly people waiting for their place of residence. In its Catalonia it is more important, it is more important TV3 than older people, day care centers, young people who cannot afford college. That's your Catalonia; that's the Catalonia you want. Look, I've told you before too, with the money that has been spent in a month, just in a month, to go see your friends the trial prisoners could have paid the sign language interpreters to the deaf children. Are you going to do it? Are you going to do it, Mr. Torra? Or will we continue to have deaf children in class without being able to follow the explanations because they have no sign language interpreter? I'm asking you. Because it's 35,000 euros a month. Look, I really don't know... I don't know what else. Catalonia has very serious social problems. I'm running out of time, and I have a lot of points, because, of course, you've made a two-hour speech here. You've made the letter here to the Magi, you've been promising things you're thinking of doing we don't know when, but it's that the problems of Catalans can't wait any longer, they can't wait for you to decide to put those measures in place. Really, look, I'm going to be going through things, which I've pointed out a lot. But you, too, have spoken, for example, of economics. With all due respect, with all due respect I say to you, but it is that you have quoted as a source Mr Oriol Amat, which I insist, with all due respect, but that in the last parliamentary term I was a Member of your group. Is that the source you have here to explain how well the economy is doing? She's left things behind. For example, in the Cercle d'Economia – that didn't mention it, did it? – they came to tell you that you were putting the Catalan economy at risk and they asked you to change course; but that you here have not explained, that you here are not interested in – you are not interested in. Really, every day that you are at the head of the Generalitat is a lost day for all Catalans. There's not a single area of government that works. Leave it now. Let go of those we have shown that we have solutions for Catalonia, and a prosperous Catalonia, a Catalonia of freedom, a Catalonia of all, Mr Torra, that Catalonia you do not see. We've told you before, we've told you in the control session, I've told you again here, and today and now I'm telling you again: let go. If you don't want to work for Catalonia, if you only want to do it again, repeat it again, as you threatened again yesterday, that you know that you will have us in front of you, not only to stop you again, but to work for the problems of Catalans, because we do care. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.130.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the return of Mr Miquel Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.131.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Many honorable President of the Generality, members of the Government, deputies and deputies, partners all, the real Catalonia..., what is the real Catalonia? The 7_million_i_mig of citizens and citizens, living in forty-one districts and in the Valley of Aran, a Catalonia with diverse territorial and social needs, with very varied needs. Catalonia is a country that has a lot of trumps in its hands: capable workers and workers, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs with great commitment, autonomies, professionals, scientists and scientists, public servants and servants, unionists able to claim and agree, well-prepared and prepared students, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs willing to risk, a good teacher, a good climate, a strategic geographical location, sea, mountain, rivers, good communications, ports and airports, able to attract tourism, investment and business projects... Catalonia is a lot of things, and a lot of good things. From our point of view, a good government would know how to get the most out of all these trumpets. Catalonia is Barcelona and its metropolitan region, but also the regions that are losing people. And, as I have done before and remember, I will quote expressly the Alt Urgell, the Alta Ribagorça, the Lower Hebrew, the Bergedà, the Barberà Conca, the Garrigues, the Montsià, the Pallars Justà, the Pallars Sobirá, the Priorat, the Ribera d'Ebre, the Ripollès and the Upper Earth. And real Catalonia is also many things that are not so positive, there are problems: hard, poor, unequal, large people who live in solitude, difficulties in gathering new people, great territorial imbalances, difficulties for youth emancipation, shortage of social housing, wage exclusion between men and women... You told us, and with all due reason: « Catalunya is Hewlett-Packard and Facebook, but also Nissan's difficulties. And, therefore, when we try to make a diagnosis as balanced as possible, we can not only take refuge in those things that go well, that logically we have to show them and get them to the maximum profit, but also recognize that it is not all a way of roses. The Catalan Government had a budget of EUR 38,000_million and 230,000 public servers. We believe that with these resources it can do more and better, and that is not contradictory with asking for more, with demanding the just deal that suits us. When we ask the citizenry, apart from the economic problems that alarm it, they mention politics and politics as the main problem. It certainly weighs a lot on the current situation, in which the policy and those that were at the head of the institutions created problems that later were unable to resolve, with important consequences for everyone. And the feeling of cul-de-sac, of frustrated expectations, of impotence, of fear of fracture, of uncertainty, are sensations that today share many Catalans and Catalans. We offer them to take refuge in what divides us and deepen to what we can be united in. We reject the division into blocks, we close the cross-sectionality and the whole between differents. I greet these agreements so varied that they are being produced across the country, and they will understand that today and especially I greet the agreement of the government of Barcelona Metropolitan Area, integrated by four political forces; I believe that this is a path that should be followed. It would be a good thing if we committed all our pleas to stability, that we extended ourselves from unilateral and illegal drifts, which, at the end of the day, have made everything more difficult for us; that is to say, from our point of view, all the contrary of 'we will do it again. He has no sense of persevering in error. That doesn't mean that no one has to give up their objects, but we do have to move on to an absolutely different scene. And, if I may – because you've talked a lot about dellejayats – the mother of all dellejayats is to have wanted to beat the Constitution and the Statute. [[Greetings.]] And believe me if I say it: in the end, it's negotiating the breach. There's no way out of the mig: negotiate or break. And, therefore, a government must take this first option. And sometimes, in listening to you, it seems like you've decided to try to break again. This debate, all of a sudden, could be a lost opportunity if it is converted on a new occasion to throw the dishes at each other. But this does not mean that we make a negative assessment of your government's management. But maybe we can try to make this a useful debate if we identify the biggest problems, the main priorities, and we can agree on some measures to address them. And this is the meaning of our intervention. We want to contribute and ask the Government to also contribute to the creation of a climate of dialogue and understanding between the Catalan parties, based on respect for political pluralism, which is the best guarantee of coexistence. We reiterate the need to combat and ail racism and xenophobia, to eradicate hate speech and dehumanization and to combat all forms of intimidation or violence. Let us reiterate the need for an express waiver of unilateral life, which is always guaranteeing respect for legality and the current institutional framework, as well as the mechanisms and majorities envisaged for its reform. Dialeg, negotiation and pact; this is the only way. Majorities, and I also have to say to him: the deeper or more radical the reform is, the wider the most necessary. We believe that it is necessary to fully regain the institutional sense and ensure that the institutions are at the service of the city council. The three main objectives: to refer social and political consensus to our country; to promote economic progress and to strengthen social cohesion are the other two. Three great things: consensus, economic progress, social cohesion. And that's why we have dared to establish six great country priorities. Country priority number 1, which I believe can be widely shared: promote economic development ahead and just. Catalonia's future economics is undergoing a growth based on knowledge. We want Catalonia to be the country of talent and knowledge, and an international pole of first level research and innovation. We don't want to be a low-cost country that attracts investments for low labor force costs; this is a model that doesn't generate stable job places or value added to our economy. The future is of knowledge, it will be of the knowledge industry and of the knowledge countries, that is, of those who clearly have to put knowledge at the center of the economy, to locate it in the territory to generate innovation, competitiveness, wealth and well-being. In the past few years, since 2012, the Government of the Generality has reduced the knowledge, universities and research centers assumptions by a 30_per_cent, and increased the public college prices by a 66_per_cent, and made access and equality difficult for young people looking for opportunities for future ones. Therefore, it is necessary to capture this drift so negative, because it is to universities, institutes and research centres where knowledge is generated and where this knowledge is transferred to generate rich economics and social welfare. Faced with the challenges that you clearly identified and that we share – digitalization, artificial intelligence, new energy models, industry 4.0 – because these challenges we can address as knowledge is at the heart of our policies. Priority 2: Public education. Miri, the public investment that the Government of the Generalitat devotes to education is of the lowest in Europe, of the order of 2.8_per_cent. The Catalonian Education Law proposed for 2017 a 6_per_cent of GDP. We are aware that this will not jump from one year to another; but the comparison with other autonomous communities reflects how the governments of Catalonia since 2010 have penalized education much more than other communities. So much so, as public investment in education decreased in recent years by almost 20_per_cent, the spending of families in education increased by more than 27_per_cent, and perhaps this explains why the level of family income conditions Catalonia more than other autonomous communities the academic performance of the studentship. And, therefore, we want an educational system that guarantees fairness, or that guarantees it better than in the present. There has been talk, and therefore I will not repeat, of the need to finance municipal schools. There is also a need to move further forward in the inclusive school model, and we do not forget a challenge yet, which is the domain of a third language; it is an objective still far too far in our country. Country priority number three: public sanitation. Miri, there have been details since 2010, there has been an increase in the number of beds, an increase in the waiting list, and there has been an increase in territorial inequities. You have told us that you have hired 250 meths, only 122 of us; but, finally, we have already discussed in other debates. In any case, we are far from what we need if we really want to attack the waiting lists and these territorial inequalities that are produced. And while the quality of public care has this tension, accessibility to the system is complicated and citizens opt more and more for private insurance systems. It is a bad symptom, it is, from our point of view, an indicator that indicates the need to "squeeze more – in this yes, "squeeze – in public sanitation. Country priority number 4: the fight against inequalities. We talked about lists of expectations, of residences, of the difficulties of the system of dependence in Catalonia, in which you also said that one of the fundamental difficulties are the problems of financing, some of them derivatives due to lack of compliment of the commitments of the State, effectively. What's going on is that the problem is here. I have to say in these questions: we have come out of the joints, which have seen themselves with a much greater competitive and presuppositional limitation than the Generality to attend to and complement to what the Generality, for reasons that have already been mentioned and others, does not do. We talked about the need to update the service portfolio and the forecasts that had been made by a law passed in 2010. I am not going to go any further, but I will certainly place two themes which also have to do with these inequalities, with these social policies: the need to strengthen the child protection system, and also the need to drive housing policies decisively. Country priority number 5: combat territorial imbalances. To the question I asked you this morning, I spoke, and at least at the speech level and in your answer, I was able to see a coincidence of diagnosis and concern. Now you need to put the wire in the needle. Country priority number 6: climate change. It's time to recognize the climate emergency. You, the Government, have declared this situation and, therefore, are not aware, and we must make an effort of social pedagogy, but of public policies as well, in order to meet the objectives that we have set ourselves: of decarbonization, of having a new green agreement, the Green New Deal, to Catalonia, of agreeing with Spain and the European Union, with sufficient funding to guarantee the creation of employment and a fair transition in the most vulnerable sectors and territories, before the necessary changes in the forms of production and consumption. We must incorporate into our reflections the consideration of limits: the Earth is one, there is no plan B, the country is also a... And from this point of view we would like to welcome the efforts of a greater protection of the territory, of which you have also made yourself felt in your intervention. We also need to focus infrastructure policy from this point of view to ensure the right to mobility in a safe and sustainable way. From our point of view, it is necessary to promote public transport and the electrification of transport, the fight for the quality of the area, the reduction of contamination and the reduction of the environmental impact of infrastructures. This must be compatible with the needs of the country. We do not plant, for example, an absolute opposition to an eventual expansion of the airport of Barcelona. If we do, we will have to work, we will have to decide, we will have to agree and make decisions that will impact our country in the next 20 or 30 years. It is essential that we increase the weight of industry in our product fabric; so we will have a more stable occupation, and surely the economy will be less vulnerable to its external dependence. The Industrial Pact needs a new and renewed impetus, and also an economic compromise. The industrial sector must adapt to globalisation, to the economic transition and to the digital transition, and this many businesses, small and medium-sized, above all, are not in a position to do so alone. It should promote the leadership of the Catalan industry in sectors such as energy accumulation and transport electrification equipment. The truth is that I believe that, from the point of view of priorities, we can agree with relative sensileness. The proof of the new whether we really agree is if we get all ready to approve some assumptions for the year that will help these and other needs. That is why – and I finish – it is necessary for the government to present the draft assumptions for 2020 and the draft fiscal and financial measures for 2020. We want you to do it, as you're setting up our laws, before the end of October. And if you want, we're willing to talk to you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.132.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.133.0	Yes, thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Today Ciutadans has summoned us, in this specific plethora, to speak of the real Catalonia, and according to his vision there would be a Catalonia that saw in a parallel world, that saw Matrix, embolized with flags and that is unable to recognize and want the real problems that the real Catalonia is experiencing. And from the same story, Catalonia would not be a nation, it would have historically never wanted to be, except for the fact that later years, a bunch of policies have dedicated themselves to deceiving more than two million Catalans and Catalans. You can hear that this visit we don't share, we think it's not right, or at least it's not right in myths. But it's that, besides, the thesis of real Catalonia is not even his own. Already in 2013 Ms.Alícia Sánchez-Camacho, who was then leading the Popular Party in Catalonia, after the massive day of that year, made some statements and said: « Real Catalonia today has stayed at home. So, by the way, Ciutadans is not original. And, certainly, it is seen, according to this theory, that Mrs. Roldán in those moments also did not form part of the real Catalonia, because she was on the day, she did participate in the Via Catalana. [[Greetings.]] And that's because Mrs. Roldán is an exhibition of Catalonia's complexity, a complexity that you, the Lords and Lords of City, do not want or want to recognize. And what I'm most hard to hear is his obsession with fueling the conflict between Catalans and classifying citizenship into a few boxes every time smaller, more strict, in his ideological journeys across Mars. And it must be clear that as real and as much Catalonia is the broad sovereignist movement in favour of the right to decide how all the people who voted for you are; as real is Catalonia that it felt moved because it did not like what happened in this Parliament on the 6th and 7th of September 2017 as all the people who came out on the 1st of October to defend with their own things the ballots to the col·legis before the brutal police repression; as real is Catalonia that they say they are happy birthdays or happy in castle; as real is Stopa as they are the Friends of the Arts; as real is the Catalonia of the voters of the People's Party as that of the voters of the UPC; as real is Barcelona as it is the Sardinian, the Earth, the Holy Land, the Holy Land. Real Catalonia is also all the young people who have had to leave this country after a lost decade of austerity or our great people who are dying alone waiting for a place in a public residence. [[Greetings.]] So real is the people who suffer from repression and the spread of civil and political rights such as doctors and patients who are patenting the details of public health, regardless of the ideas and feelings they have before a hypothetical independence from Catalonia. The real Catalonia is also all the people who don't come up at the end of the month, who work and who are poor, who defend public services and who spend most of their money to pay for a habitation, regardless of the flag they place on their balcony. Real Catalonia, therefore, is diverse and complex – it is not only plural, president, it is also complex – and you do not understand its complexity or diversity. We are a country with a clear national consciousness, but we also have strong links, historical, political, economic, social, sentimental ties with the people of Spain and with the popular classes of their nations. We are a country of working and multilingual people. We are Catalans and Catalans who have come from all the reasons of the world with the will to improve personally, to organize ourselves and to live in a society every time fairer. We are people of all orientation and sexual identity, feminists, who we have come to change everything to have a society with more possibilities to be happy. And we need to preserve this complexity and this diversity, because it's the one that makes us stronger in order to be able to overcome the challenges we have in the future. This is real Catalonia, with all its complexity. And what's not real, what's a scam, is Ciutadans' concern for the popular and working classes of this country. I insist: it's not real and it's a scam, because, if not, who's the opposition you've made? Who's the opposition they're making? Have they renewed the action or inaction of this government or this government? Have you sought alliances and managed to agree with other political forces of this chamber to bring forward proposals that will improve the life of the citizenry? All you do is scream and break bridges. That's how you used your million votes. And, besides, they are unable to recognize the exceptional context we suffer, because the violation of civil and political rights is indisputable; prison and exile are incomprehensible in a democratic society, and we should never – ever – have reached this point. What's different is the unilateral way. We are convinced that it was a bottle error, it was a fraction of large dimensions, but confusing the penal sphere with the political sphere is not only unfair, but it does not help solve the question of funds and is preventing Catalonia from having a real political debate about the future that this country deserves, because it is still contaminated by exceptionality. Look, you won the Catalan elections with a spectacular result. That's undeniable. But it's also true that they're now falling apart. Who until now was her leader, Mrs. Arrimadas, was unable to articulate an opposition to this government for the visceral rebuff to Catalanism and for the addiction of her party to the conflict. And, if we had any doubt about it, it was just the last few weeks that went by with some grotesque exhibitions, with their positions to the manifestations of the pride of LGBTI people. And more you have copied the Popular Party and even in the failed strategy, for another band, of sacrificing Catalonia to win Spain, but it came out badly. And so you have gone from being a force that represented a hope for a part of the citizenry to becoming a historic party, without the ability to reach agreements or alliances with other political forces; only with two, that, yes, with the People's Party and with the ultra-right of Vox, with those that extend the rights of women, of the LGBTI movement and of people who migrate. They, for the sake of detail, are willing to do anything. And you go hand in hand. And now they come here and they want us to believe that they are very concerned and concerned about working classes. So I'll tell you how you act with the popular classes and workers when they rule, because we can already want it; we can already want what you're doing in Andalusia. In the first place, they are breaking down the foundations of public education; they are favoring private school and concerted school, advancing towards a dual model in which commercialization is gaining ground and the public school is becoming a reduction for families with fewer entrances. Secondly, they are insuffloating money to private sanitation with the excuse – yes, because they have to look for an excuse – to reduce the waiting lists; they are deriving resources in a way that is not transparent to multinationals. And, in the same way, the suppression of the drug sub-stage will turn into favors for pharmaceutical corporations. And we already know how this went: first the public is degraded and then it was privatized. Thirdly, they are whitewashing the forces that are demanding data from people who work with the survivors of male violence. You're bleaching them. And they'd just have to come here and tell us that they were very concerned about the climate crisis, when they took care to drop the Madrid Central project and had to come in and put up with the few before that. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, they see what is being done in Andalusia and Madrid by the hand of Vox and the People's Party, their receptions for the real Catalonia do not set any more than detail in the assumption of health and public education in favor of the private, tolerance and whitening of the most retrograde policies of its neo-Foreign partners in the fight against climate change and the rights of LGBTBI people and women, and also block any social progress that may come from the State. You have become not only a historic party – I have already said this – but a conservative and blocking force. And I'm already telling you that we won't let you abuse 99 percent, because you were born with a very clear objective, that it was to refocus and rent your face to the right, but we were also born with a very clear objective, that it is to defend the interests of the middle classes and workers and to make democracy great, and democracy are social rights, national rights, civil rights and political rights; all this is democracy. And here the government suspects; here the government suspects, because its public policies are neither real nor non-existent. President, you can come here and talk for five hours, you can talk for twenty-five hours if you want, you can explain to us how many dollars you will buy in the different departments, but the reality is: how has Catalonia progressed since you were in the government? What's he been up to? You're talking about macroeconomic figures that ultimately don't come, these moneys, to the families' buttocks. Do we have more self-government? Have inequalities been reduced? Is there any less precariousness? What solution have they given to the children of Ciutat Vella, who are six times more likely to fail school than those of Sarria? What do they say, to the two thousand students who have let the universities go because they can't pay taxes? What have they done to the thousands of people who die waiting for a place in a public residence? He remembers that there is a demonstration before the government, a concentration of the sector of dependence, employers and trade unions, which only claim resources and dignity. What do they say to the locals who have had to lower the blind because they can't do it anymore? What do they say to them, to the veins and veins that have had to abandon their barrels because they can't afford the logger? A fake decree? Is that all this government is offering? Is Catalonia now more prepared to face the fires? Do they declare climate change and take no concrete action? Are we now a more cohesive society? The answer to all these questions is no, and they know it. And the government majority of Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana is "unfounded. This government does not govern, however much it speaks, this government gesticulates. And it is true that the exceptional context is a disgrace and that independence is deprived of its first political line. But at the same time I would say that you are not fulfilling your responsibility to provide Catalonia with a strong government that allows us to move forward, protect self-government and solve the problems of citizenship. And you said before: "Citizenship values public services very well. But it is not thanks to public policies or to the funding that is being put in place or to the support given to it by the Government, it is thanks to the workers and public workers who are bringing this country; it is not thanks to their Government. A single law passed for the government; some data striking the Idecat of poverty and inequality; the inability to present assumptions and, even more, clear, to approve them, and the absolute lack of a full shared route. This is the balance of his legislature, this is his government work. And it seems that they are only agreeing to buy the land, on the part of Incasòl, Hard Rock and keep it in power. And beyond the constant improvisation, the government alone co-ordinates repression and a nostalgic rhetoric that is caught up in the past. And most people, think what they think, even a part of the most pragmatic independence, are fully aware of this situation. And the only thing they do is subject the social axis to the national one, and they're just craves of concern and patience on the part of the citizenry, and in this way the country's joint will never make this government its own and it won't hold it to the government's legitimacy. And they don't want to see that block policy is exhausted and that only after mutual recognition can we move forward. And that only Catalonia can govern it – and say to rule, not to occupy the cadres, which is what you are doing – leaving behind the witch hunt, who is the first or last traitor, no longer looking at the enquests and posing the country before the party. And I wouldn't want to end up without making a mention of what I can spend tomorrow in Madrid, but one more time I will do it in a exercise of prudence and self-containment, because for us it won't stay and we will try until the end. I just want to say that negotiating is not humiliating and that no one can try to be humiliating president about 4_million voters. The responsibility to make government is Pedro Sánchez's, and without this agreement neither he will be president nor the country will be able to advance, and he would also be opening the door to a government of the right and the extreme right. And as I'm sure, Miquel, that we all agree on this, I say you have everything on your side because this is prosperous, because we can no longer do it. And, finally, President, we do not give up anything, but we do ask you not to take the time to negotiate in Madrid, because this morning Mrs Borràs, who is your representative at the Congress, has had it. Therefore, the task force asks her to do it, and, if not, to the proper elections she asks us to vote for her. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.134.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. Then, on behalf of the Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, has the word MP Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.135.0	Thank you, President. Well, today we are celebrating this Ple over the real Catalonia on Ciutadans' proposal, and, first of all, we want to say that we are very clear that what we do not want for Catalonia of the present and future is what Ciutadans does and will do there on governing – in Andalusia, in Madrid, or probably in Múrcia – male politicians who deny and endorse violence against women, and the LGTBifóbia, manipulation and denial of historical memory, racism and xenophobia, negationism and aggravation of climate change, legitimization of fetishism and neoliberal policies against the popular classes and in favour of IBEX 35. And, for what he does to the president's speech – as much as he has gone, they will already explain it – more than talking about real Catalonia has exposed a management report of autonomy, which perfectly could have pronounced Artur Mas or Jordi Pujol, in full business-friendly line. We have not listened to him speak of self-determination, of recovery of sovereignty over our common basic resources and benefits; of guaranteeing social rights, such as the right to housing; or of exercising civil and political rights, despite the repression and impositions of the State. And that, President, is also real Catalonia. Listening to him we came back before 2012, which I have to say has clearly surprised us. The real Catalonia is the one that is fractured by inequality, poverty and precariousness; the one that is threatened every day by male violence; the one that is massively repelling tourists and expels families from places where they are living because of the speculative pressure of the lobby; the one that is violently denouncing in complicity with the mafias of housing; the one that allows the feixism field freely for our streets and places; the one that is threatened by a climate crisis that capitalism provokes and hinders every day exploiting and destroying the territory; the one that suffers from the difference of twelve years of hope of life between the richest and the poorest – yes, capitalism and masculism kills, kills the real Catalonia – the one that suffers from the repression of the political repression and the political repression of the former, and the political repression of the former. Today, speaking of real Catalonia, I also want to note that the active or passive support for Pedro Sánchez's investiture is probably through the waiver of the right to self-determination, to normalize repression as well as to park, probably, the repeal of labor reform or the law bites. They're gonna give it up? But the real Catalonia is also the one that fights, that of the popular victory of '1 October and 3 October, that of the vague feminist, the one that resists denunciations, the one that fights to defend the territory, the one that faces fascism; the one that wants to collate; the one that fights for universal education and health, public and free; the one that fights for the labor and social rights of all; the one that fights to transform the present and build the future. And that is why we want to talk, also, about Catalonia of the future, which for us means to imagine it and to want it independent, socialist, feminist, ecological and in the national mark of the Catalan Countries. A country of social, civil and political rights for all, over origins, identities and languages. In that Catalan culture is a work collectively built from all diversity and catalá is a common good shared in a multilingual society. A country that is united in a new international order based on justice, human rights, the rights of the people and full responsibility for the preservation of the planet. A country free of the 78th Regime, its monarchy and its elites and oligarchies. A sovereign republic, where basic resources, common goods and the economy are at the hands of the people and the people's service, serving equality and human development. Where capitalism remains in the past. A country where we can exercise, where everyone can exercise all rights, all social, civil and political rights, including the right to self-determination. And this right, precisely this right, today it is not possible to exercise it in the framework of a democratic agreement with the Spanish State. The October 1 referendum did not have any effect, not only for repression, but for the lack of will and determination of the Catalan political power to assume that the self-organisation of the people and the sovereignty of the Catalan institutions are the only way, despite the repression, to make the construction of the Catalan Republic real and effective. But they are only the current atzucac in the exercise of self-determination and repression of the causes of the problems of Catalonia, they are also the policy of the Government of the Generalitat, which maintained a segregating educational system by reason of class, sustained an unjust tax system, reproduces labor relations and social inequalities that increase poverty and precariousness. They participate in the repression of protest and dissent, leaving free to fascism, and zealously applying the law bite. They violently dissuade families and favor large estates and habitation mafias. They exploit the territory and exacerbate the climate crisis. Give up public control of our basic resources and common good. They obey and obey the State and its judicial institutions when they retaliate or deny us rights. These policies are also part of the problem, and we will also have to drop them so as to smooth out the Catalonia we want, for the future and for the present. Mr. and Mr. Ciutadans, Mr. and Mr. of the Government, President – who has already returned –, certainly, the Government of the State, the Spanish State and its institutions violate our rights, our social rights, civil rights and political rights, the Constitutional Court continually retaliates public policies, the social policies that this Parliament develops, but, more than the action of the Constitutional Court, we are concerned about the lack of action and determination of the Government to violate the limits imposed on us by the State and capital. This is real Catalonia, the rights and self-government suppressed and violated. That of some Catalan institutions, and that of a people fighting for their rights and freedoms. A people who deserve to go back out on the street, to do it again, to win and exercise social, civil and political rights, falling down the rule, and standing face to face to face, to whom the defense in repression and denial of civil and political rights. A people who are not resigned and who deserve political parties and institutions never normalize resignation. We want independence to change everything, and we need to change everything to achieve independence. I the CUP - Constituent cry is not resigned. He will make proposals, responsibly, in the street, in the assemblies and in Parliament, to sum up efforts, to sum up all possible efforts and to achieve these objectives. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.136.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, deputy Alejandro Fernández has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.137.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, in discussing a debate on real Catalonia, it is essential to analyse the two fundamental consequences of the process we have been living through for a few years. The first is the Government's abandonment of public policies. And that is how much you have tried today to disguise it with a pleasant, vibrant and vitamin intervention this morning, which has thrilled us all. Governance does not govern very well, but to combat insomnia you are a figure. But, apart from abandoning public policies, which have serious social consequences, to which I shall refer below, there is another serious consequence, which is to severely alter coexistence, although you also deny it, and which is very much affected. And to talk about this, you also have to go to the source. There are some, in nationalism, that place it in the statutory debate, the judgment of October 2010. False. Let us remember that the collaboration between the governments of Spain and Catalonia extended until 2012, and in addition the party that promoted, through its appeal, that sentence, which was the People's Party, obtained the best results of its history precisely between 2010 and 2014. Little punishment, little concern was perceived at the time against the People's Party, or against that sentence that went absolutely unnoticed. What was decisive, and I have repeated it on some occasion, is when Artur Mas has to face the 15M populist movement, and he has to get out by helicopter. And there you make a crucial decision to understand everything that has happened next, and it is that to combat that populism, you decide to become populists. And they do, moreover, following the manual that brilliantly defined Giovanni Sartori, when he said that the characteristics of populism are: creation of an external enemy – Madrid steals from us – magical solutions to complex problems – independence will bring all the solutions of the world –, and messianism in political behavior. Artur Mas began with open arms of messiahs, and it can be said that Puigdemont has had exactly the same kind of behavior. Therefore, it has nothing to do with the Statue. It cannot be dissociated, under any circumstances, from what we are living here with the wave of populism on the left and on the right that has been lived throughout Europe. The problem is that in each country it manifests itself in a different way. In Italy, which is perhaps the country that has suffered it most intensely, left and right, Salvini, North League, Five Star Movement. In Greece, Syriza; in France, the National Front. In Spain, at first, Podemos, and in this part of Spain called Catalonia, you. Because you are a clearly national-populist movement. But this absolutely diabolical consequences for public policies, and social consequences, because you, as you blame Madrid, the enemy, are absolutely unaware of any problem because nothing is your responsibility. It turns out that today we have a Catalonia in which the risk of social exclusion affects 21,3_per_cent of Catalans, three points above the Spanish average, with special incidence in women and children. We have a Catalonia at the tail of per capita investment in health care, and, instead, in the head, on waiting lists. We have a Catalonia in line in per capita investment in education, and instead head in barracks, ninety-three schools with barracks. We have a Catalonia in which 125,000 requests for public housing have been requested in 2018. In the same period, 2018, only 667 protected housing units have been delivered: 125,000/667. But it's enough for you to blame Madrid. You are absolutely not responsible for anything, because that is the fundamental characteristic of populism. There's only one thing worse than this, just one, which is seriously altering coexistence. If Madrid robs you, according to you, everyone who feels Spanish, therefore, will be an accomplice of the thief, therefore becomes an enemy, becomes a settler, becomes a botifler, and that is where hatred nests, that is where coexistence is destroyed, in treating more than half of the population as if they were, simply, traitors to the homeland, and therefore the dissenter is marginalized. Have you noticed, Mr. Torra, that you, throughout your time as president, have never spoken of coexistence, genuine coexistence, how we live together with each other? He's never done it. You always talk about the momentum. That momentum in which a part of Catalonia, through a new insurrection, can manifest and impose on the rest of Catalonia its vision. Living together, living together, living together. I told you in full, I told you in committee, I told you on TV, I asked you on the radio. Less singing, I've asked him anyway. Well, following a tradition of Anglo-Saxon parliamentarianism, I am also going to ask you to sing. Don't let anyone get scared. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] I will do so through a very brief and fully regulatory stumbling block in favor of coexistence. Besides, it's Manolo Escobar's, which I know is going to get to you very deep, and I have to very well dedicate it to you. [[The orator sings.]] « I'm just asking you, I'm just asking you to make my life nice, even if it doesn't match you at all. Thank you! [[Voice remorse and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.138.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet. Next, has the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the deputy Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.139.0	I promise not to sing in no case. [[Widow's remorse.]] Good morning, President. Vice-President of Parliament, councillors, deputies, deputies of Ciutadans, today you want to make a general policy debate, but you have made a mistake of date, and as an alternative, now you know that you do not have the media focus you expected, you plant a new and clever electoral campaign act, and you do it as always, looking for division, lacking what the majority of citizens of this country think, and I hope that, at least, you will serve them to win some primaries to Mrs Roldán. As a matter of fact, it's what I need for this. Anyway, he tricked me, or they fooled me for almost three minutes. During the first three minutes of the first intervention, the second one no longer, I thought, at some point, that maybe they really wanted to talk about real Catalonia. But in three minutes there were already three hits: chiringuito, TV3, runaways, the president's articles, and, therefore, brushing, brushing, brushing and re-spraying permanent confrontation. But they have made a mistake again, because before their division gains, they will always find us there, to defend all – all – Catalans and Catalans. Today you were planning a supposed repte: talking about the real Catalonia. So if they really want to talk about real Catalonia and its people, let's talk about it; this is always good for us. Mirin, Catalonia is a land of crowded, step by step, that has built its identity thanks to the diversity and effort of its people and to the contributions of all those people who have come to it at the length of history, and this makes us an extraordinary country – extraordinary. Many of the great peoples and cultures of the world have passed through this land, and today, hundreds of cultures share harmony, fusion and diversity. Catalonia is a country of working people, inclusive, open, restless and persevering, with a privileged geographical situation, connecting directly with Europe, but combining it with the traditions of the Mediterranean, of both sides of the Mediterranean, halfway between the sea and the mountain, and between two great states that have often tried to assimilate us. Our identity has been built through popular revolts and a spirit of fighting against permanent injustice, of collective resistance, which has allowed us to preserve the language and a culture of our own, saving it, to say the least, from the darkest ages, which have been many and very long. With an eye always laid in Europe, with an eye always laid in the world, but also with strong own traditions and a culture that embraces everything there and everything that decides to form part of it. The Catalan people have also been characterized by their commitment to the great causes, such as poverty, freedom or justice. This Catalonia – this Catalonia – has historically been a land of opportunity. The people settled in this little raccoon of the world, they came from everywhere, because they had the opportunity to have a future, a future that they could not find in other bands, because, at our house, by luck, no matter where you came from, nor the idiom in which you talk to your parents, there is, in some way, a Catalan dream, an opportunity in the form of a social ascent, an opportunity that many people found in Catalonia and that they had not found before. Being a land of opportunity has made us, yes, a land of entanglement, even though it does not please them, and this is the Catalonia that we defend, it is the Catalonia that we want. Today, we can say that our home is your home, but this is not new, at the length of history, it has always been like this. But it's also true that it's not all nice and they're calling us self-criticism. We never defend from the Left a self-fulfilling version of reality. The biggest problem that Catalonia has, like most Western societies – along the lines of rights and freedom of speech – is inequality and, today, the risk rate of poverty in Catalonia stands at 20_per_cent. 778,032 women, 694,291 men are found in llars marked for the risk of poverty. 52.7_percent of the population says they have problems arriving at the end of the month. Catalonia has, not in doubt, one of the best health systems in Europe, but not the best, but, at the same time, leads the regions of the State with the most lists of expectations. We also see that the number of young Catalans entering the foreign language does not cease, despite the growth of the economy, and not all voluntarily or to form, eighty-thousand young people currently living outside Catalonia, and it is that youth tourism is high, despite the fact that macroeconomic data are very positive. In Catalonia there are still 1,015 barracks and only 30_per_cent are to cover specific needs, the rest respond to structural needs and, certainly, there is a commitment to eliminate them in the proper seven years, but today they are still there. And I could list more of them, but I think these examples already serve to illustrate what I wanted. Yes, in Catalonia we have problems, in Catalonia we have people who suffer, many people who suffer and we are here with the will that this does not continue to happen, because we are here to help everyone. But it's so true that we have problems and hard, as it's true that we have a structural problem and that all the attempts to solve it have been made. The citizens of Catalonia generate enough resources to have a welfare state at the level of the best of the world, but these resources do not revert to their own country, do not reach the Catalans, our GDP or the repeated record in the level of exports do not have after a capacity of public expenditure that allows us to care for our people and the solution to this is a republic. So we've been explaining Republican Left for a long, long, long, long time. A lot of people have tried it before, but since a birth without a state or, as we say sometimes, with a state against, that's not possible. Let 'a thousand' show with some data... – with the risk that some have already said in the president's brief speech [[relays]] –, some data that always forgets Ciutadans, as it is our economy tomorrow and as this does not reverse in the welfare state. The Catalan economy grew by 2.6_per_cent in 2018 and has grown by five years. Catalonia, with 1,200 start-ups, is the region ahead of Europe in business. In Catalonia, foreign investments between 2013 and 2017 recorded an increase of 34_per_cent compared to the previous five years. The Tax Agency of Catalonia – « xiringuito, surely – recovers in three years 557_million euros that is intended to evade fiscally, four times more than the cost of its operation. And you could continue with the airport, with the universities and with the traffic of goods to the port or with the numbers of the Catalan tourism. And, despite all this, as I said before, our young people are leaving. And, despite that, our levels of dependency coverage are not the ones we want and are not going to, and there is no right, because Catalonia has to aspire to have one of the best welfare states in Europe, we have the dimensions, we have the productive capacity to make it possible, we have to aspire to be one of the most just and equal societies in southern Europe, becoming a referent in this area, as are the Nordic states. But we know that in order to achieve it, first, we will have to form an independent republic. We know that this extraordinary country does not have a future in the Spanish State, because it has been a long time since Spain decided not to be the State of Catalans, not only because it has never felt its own language and Catalan culture, but because they have systematically offended us, because they have cut our progress, our economy and our social cohesion, they have taken anti-economic decisions, because they were in Catalonia, generating discrimination in infrastructure that is largely structural, and what has been known as a fiscal deficit, and, for so much that they tend to love it, you know that this model is absolutely unfair with the citizens of Catalonia, also – and also – with all those who vote for you. And that what divides is not wanting to make a republic or the independence of your country, what divides is not wanting to celebrate a referendum; democracy does not divide, democracy can never divide. What fractures societies are inequalities, lack of opportunity, injustice and repression. And we don't have tools to solve this situation, not enough, and we want them, we demand them, and we want them to help people. The social struggle against inequalities, the struggle against the structures of power currently constituted in the Spanish State thanks to the 78's rule, is what has always moved us and moved us, since the foundation of Esquerra, eighty-eight years ago, until today. For us there was no social struggle without national struggle or national struggle without social struggle. Independence is her, the initial goal to build a fairer society, our goal from the last eighty-eight years, and social struggle, the stake for social policies is the best way to work this republic and to make us republicans. Look, independence is the only move that's really making the 78th rule and its power structure truncated. You, who supposedly came to question certain aspects of the system, have ended up feeling the most retrograde defenders of the status quo, as was the "socio-vergence of the sadly misnamed" Catalan oasis. Also those who wanted to rob the cells from the places should recognize today that only independence has put the rule on hold. Miri, they fill their mouths on the consensus of 78, a supposed consensus that they made a group of men – yes, only men – smoking in one place, just next to another place where they were crushing and clearing their weapons another group of men; a consensus that was not too much, a consensus that was only a point and followed, a consensus that, today, has disappeared not only because we no longer voted for it, but also even those that voted for it, no longer share it. The 78's rule is the power structure that prevents things from changing and, at the moment, we've already made it thunder and no one doubts that we'll continue to shake it until it falls. Because the 78th Regime is the direct heir of the '' tied and well bound'' and the '' before broken red''. And you know perfectly well how the 78 rule has been responsible, because they are advanced students and because they are part of it, they have been responsible. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the real Catalonia, the real Catalonia suffers repression on the part of the State and does so with a new general cause, this time against independence, a democratic and peaceful movement that struggles to get Catalonia to become an independent republic in Europe. And this general cause is developed from all and each of the powers of the State, well coordinated, well thought out, and the media power giving it discursive coverage and, above all, contributing permanently to the dehumanization of the adversary, in order to be able to later justify all the actions they take. And the monarch – the monarch – publicly swallows it. And that's also real Catalonia, because, even though they don't want to see it, in 21st century Catalonia, there have been political arrests and seizures, exiles and exiles, reprisals and reprisals. In Catalonia in the 21st century, it pursues ideologies, social movements, in short, it pursues dissent. But we will not surrender, because, for us, the Republic is the only way to guarantee the political rights of all the citizens of Catalonia. If we want independence, it's because we want to live in democracy. And that's why we need to make a common front and do it with all the Democrats in Catalonia, work the alliances with the Democrats in the Spanish State and make our voice felt loud and clear in Europe and the world. Look, real Catalonia – as they like to talk to you – wants to be able to decide the future of the country in a referendum and it is very clear that it will be so, that no one doubts it. Only the citizens of Catalonia will be the ones who decide what they want to be, no matter what a law says, it will mark neither their sovereignty nor their identity. Nations form people, there is no birth without culture, history and traditions, but not without the will of citizens to build a shared future. And we know that you're just like the people of this country think, they want us to stay Spanish as long as we want to, because the Constitution says so. They don't want to listen and they don't want to hear. There are many differences between you, your group, and us, but one is fundamental above all else, we will leave it to ourselves because everyone can decide the future of this country, whether they are independent, whether they are unionists, whether they are federalists, what we want is for the citizens of Catalonia to decide their future through the ballot box, exercising democracy, we want everyone and always being able to give their opinion, as well as those who think the opposite and want to do it through the dialogue and we want to do it through the negotiation. You, in change, do not want it to be spoken and forbid it to be given an opinion. As they don't like the debate, directly, don't let anyone decide, at all, who thinks like you or who voted them. Democracy makes them allergy sooner, they are more to impose, to ban, to stop and to seek confrontation and, perhaps, in the end, it is simply that they have to vote and, perhaps, they have to vote because they have to lose. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.140.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, of Mr Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.141.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, ladies and gentlemen, President Torra... I speak to you on behalf of Junts for Catalonia, I surrender with my own guilt and with a proposal for a conundrum. We have sometimes fallen into the trap of City, for the exceptionality of the moment, and surely, because we have not known enough: City wanted to convert this Parliament into a tavern. But today they won't get lucky. Out of institutional respect, today we don't fall into the mud. Put the stop in the gag factory, and it's serious. Today alone, Mrs. Roldán, has wasted half an hour of intervention. Mrs. Roldán, no juice or muc, as they say to the Jew, no consistency, no feeling, no thanks. They propose us to talk about real Catalonia; as always, a title, of entry, traps. If you want to talk about Catalonia, if you want to talk about Catalonia there is not enough « Catalunya. And if it's about talking about Catalonia, the day it's decided to talk about fiscal deficit, which is this deficit that affects the whole country, all the barrels, all the product fabric, all the university, all the research centers, all the third sector, all the pages and the public service, all the children of the country, the day that defends the interests of all the people of this country, then they will start to be credible, to be serious. The day you ask for explanations, for example, for the time of August 17, 2017, then they will start talking about Catalonia. But while you are a cross of a state that never completes with Catalonia. And that's why they demand them, to you and also to the trio of 155, why they demand, why they ask the government of Catalonia for what they are unable to demand from the governments of Spain, which is who has the resources. Why are they so brave here and so porcupine in Madrid? Why? Why don't they ever denounce the Rodalies disaster, for example, that every morning he plays with the fate of thousands of citizens who have to go to work? Why are they never put their hands at the top when the Constitution annuls the decree of energy poverty, a decree that directly affects people who pass them the thinnest? Why don't you ever claim that you are guaranteeing the rights of voters who vote together for Catalonia, Republican Left, and who see their votes, like our votes, aren't worth the same as if you voted for, for example, your other members of Vox, to whom you whiten? Why do they allow it? How nice it is to talk about Mandela, the socialist Salvador Allende and the epic of Xile of September 11, 73. What a good thing it is to talk about defending the freedoms of the other side of the world, many kilometers from Catalonia, and not to put yourself in the red with the situation that this Parliament sees, that sees Congress, that sees Europe, where thousands of people have been silenced. [[applause]] because thousands of votes have been silenced. Catalonia has advisers to the prison and the country's president to exile. Catalonia takes responsibility for the government and can take you to prison if you complete the election program. In the real Catalonia, some pathos political repression; while you live in your particular Matrix, where democracy is, if you can be, cartoons. But do you know the fattest? That repression is a dead end – repression is a dead end. Now we have even every court that forbids this Parliament – oh, man! – talk about the monarchy, surely the most corrupt in Europe. The thickest thing is not only exile, but also that the State plays spies and that the Spanish governments act exactly – exactly – as a dictatorship would do. But, along with political repression, there has also been economic repression. That the State organized the flight of Catalonia's entrepreneurs and capital to punish October 1, this is also very difficult. It is very big that taking advantage of this engineering because there are parties – you yourselves – that come to this Parliament alarmed because there are companies that have left Catalonia denying the major, and that is cheating. That if they left it is because it was organized a great operation of the state, with the king of the « á quí them! I'm hanging out phone calls like a boig. Too many lies, so much repression, empty speeches and sterilized gags. Today we talk, as every day we do in this Parliament, about the country, and we do it from the gaze of Junts for Catalonia. We like to observe, think and project the country from the centrality with the maximum aperture of sights; a position that contrasts with the narrower of those who carry the debates to the flags and, if possible, to the origins. You've been making a debate that's unreal. This same week, we have still read to the Spanish press, to the supposed progress, that Pedro Sánchez would stop the identity debate. How can I stop the identity debate, if there is no identity debate in Catalonia? They still don't understand that we're not talking about surnames or language? The great debate in Catalonia is to ensure the well-being and talk about the future shared that we have ahead of us. This is the big debate we're doing in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] A debate that is of all, of all barrels, of all companies, of all autonomies, of all you will work, of all workers, of all people. Traditional economic sectors struggling to adapt to a changing world or sectors that are strong precisely because they were born in a crisis and technological environment. And this debate with a motxilla loaded with stones and rocks, Catalonia was loaded with rocks, sediments provoked by the insistence of the Kingdom of Spain to fail what they promise. Political Spain is incapable of completing what it has agreed to. If not, how do you explain that you dilute the candidate for the presidency of the Spanish Government, the socialist Pedro Sánchez, make his investment speech and decide – and decide – not to talk about Catalonia? Why did he do that? Don't you know more? Is it allergic to do politics from politics? Is it irresponsible? Are you afraid? Probably a little bit, but not only. Talking about Catalonia the summer of 2019 is seeing that we have a state against it, because it is disloyal with the interests of Catalans. And that everyone listens to, and out: maybe we've made mistakes. Perhaps the resistance and resilience and strength we've done before an established state has taken place a little. Maybe we're in a hurry. Maybe we haven't been able to explain the actual size of 155 or the State's willingness to escape our leaders, because when they escaped leaders we already know – and as long as we know – what they do. Perhaps, in fact, it can do better. Perhaps we did not accurately calculate the uncontrolled reaction of a Spanish woman in the state of shock when the government said we would not vote and October 1st this country voted. Maybe we didn't realize the king wasn't an arbiter of anything. And perhaps we need to explain more about the work of government, and explain it to everyone, as President Torra did today – thank you, President. But what is quite certain is that independence is and will continue to feel the best solution to the country's problems. The independence project is not magical, as they say, clearly not magical. But right now it's the only real political proposal there is to guarantee the prosperity of Catalans. The rest are threats, inconcretions, smoke, and in the case of Pedro Sánchez, silence and anti-political. Sánchez wants to be the West's beacon of new European socialism and, in change, he does not know how to sit on a table. Candidate Sanchez, the statesmen speak. It's urgent that political Spain understands that independence is a political idea that pulls people out. He pulls out of the society because the citizens we've suffered, each in their fields, the col·lapse of the State at the time of offering some sort of exit that's not enough and repressing it. It withdraws from a company that you see threatening its institutions and its Statute by the year 2010, and also because of the impossibility of effectively managing the massive arrival of us Catalans. We want a horitzó of fullness, Catalonia wants a horitzó of cultural fullness, of social fullness, of economic fullness. We don't want a wall or a resigned living at all. Independence is not against anyone. With independence we should be able to cut off the injustices that result from not having enough resources. Open your eyes, please, open your eyes. That they don't see it, that the world is changing and dynamic and that this country asks for the 5G and the State offers us the telegraph? That they don't see it? The only magic realism is to think that with a state against it there can be a future. Magical reality is to think that one day the State will act as Saint Jaume, who fell from the horse and suddenly saw it clear. Independence is not about flags, what more would they want? It's talking about social justice, economics, getting all the way to every reason in the country, fiber optics. It's leading the energy transition, and it's betting on technology, which is key. Independence is to think big to compete in a global world without bound hands, is to go out into the world without marked cards. The proposal of independence is to defend prosperity and well-being and to say things for its name, however hard it may be. Ladies and gentlemen, explain this to the country: with the tools we have, we always go to the trailer. That's why the time has come to leave the motxilla, because we're carrying a lot of rocks: economics, socials and democrats. Mrs. Roldán, flying a show? Said in August 2017, it will soon be two years, and by its silence you will know them: the PSOE, the PP, silent; the State of the IBEX, silent or campaigning against independence; the most progressive and alternate state does not say or say any more; silent ex-ministres, silent presidents, silent everyone... This silence is assandering. They want another one, show? Tax deficit, do you sound them? We know, it's a classic, Mrs. Roldán, a classic, but a real, tangible classic, which also explains the current Catalonia. Today, in July 2019, the tax deficit is 16,500_million euros each year, and now there will be some who died saying no; so yes, 16,500_million euros of tax deficit every year. In two years, by god, two years, this tax deficit is 165,000_million euros, it's barbarity. This is the reality that explains the waiting lists, the prefabricated modules at schools and institutes, the price of tuition at the university, the needy not covered in social matters. The waiting lists, Mrs Roldán, do not fall from the cell, are the direct result of the unbearable fiscal deficit. Please admit it and explain it, and they'll tell the truth. The tax deficit is giant. This is the reality, lords of Ciutadans. And what's to be done? From the start, look, respect the votes, respect the ballot boxes. The country votes as it votes, voting as it votes: in the elections of 21-D, the independenceist majority; in the Spanish elections, the victory of those who defend that the ballot box is the decision of the future political of the country, and in the municipalities and the Europeans, Catalonia has returned to vote independence. It's full of bits. Catalonia is a country, Catalonia is people. The real Catalonia tells us that with the tools of an autonomous Catalonia always, always, always, we will stay half way, that it is a way of saying that we cannot cover the needs of the citizens with the quickness that everyone deserves. And this half way affects the 7_million_i_mig Catalans, from Santa Coloma de Gramenet to Santa Coloma de Farners, from Barcelona to Camp de Tarragona, from Pirineu to Empordà, passing through the Ribera d'Ebre, the Garrigues and Segrià. There's no country in Catalonia, there's no country barricade that's not affected by the hardies of the State. But Catalonia is also hope. If we're far from where we are, we're about a new social and political reality. Catalonia is a history of perseverance, and we persist in achieving it. That's why we're addressing the people who are wondering if you've felt the collective effort we're making to have a better future. The answer is yes. Citizens and citizens of Catalonia, yes: any effort for the country, to live better, to defend our economic power, to achieve an infinitely fairer society, any effort is worth it. A country in which, despite repression, despite the fiscal, democratic or infrastructure deficit that suffers, despite everything, Catalans and Catalans resist, persist and gain independence from Catalonia, which will be the best way to guarantee the well-being of future generations. Catalonia, Mrs. Roldán, is not the one hundred and five..., the fifteen retails, or one hundred and fifty retails, or 155 ABC retails that you showed today, that you showed today in this Parliament. Catalonia is a diverse country, Catalonia is a great power that wants to live in freedom and democracy. That's why Catalonia will be what it wants to be. There will be no repression that lasts a hundred years, no monarch that can cut our tongue, no president that can deny our right to decide, say what the lords of Ciutadans say. Only Catalans and Catalans will decide what Catalonia will look like. Catalonia is a diverse country, as I say, of great power, that wants to live in democracy. Catalunya will be what it wants to be. Mrs. Roldán, you're also invited to decide what to look like. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.142.0	Next, and in response to the parliamentary groups, the President of the Generality has the word. When you're ready, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.143.0	Good afternoon. In the first place, I would like to send the condol to the family of the woman who was murdered today in Terrassa; it seems that unfortunately there has been another feminicide. My condolences, then, to his family and to all the terraces. Miri, Mrs. Roldán, I'll give you a couple of tips, if you'll excuse me. First, I think, honestly, huh? I think you should prepare a little better for your interventions. I don't think I can come here to the Parliament of Catalonia, let go of four topics and repeat them one time and another. More than anything, because it's that we're going to get Mrs. Rimadas out of it, and she's not treated like that either. And the second council. Miri, the use of irony is a little complicated – a little complicated. I say this because when the man doesn't lock her up, with the use of irony, so she passes on to the others a certain shame, and even ends up turning the person who practices her into a certain patheticism. I'm delighted, huh? , that you use the bar, but delighted; you can't imagine. But I still like it more than I liked it at Via Catalana. That's what's great about it. Indeed, I find it fantastic that you are attending the Via Catalana and, like millions of Catalans, standing there supporting the demands of the people of Catalonia for independence. And I honestly think that..., and I have the hope that well, if there was a time, then I could be again. And, therefore, I do not think that one day we will see her again alongside those who defend the rights and freedoms and the right to self-determination of Catalonia. Mr. Iceta, man, who beat up the Statute seems to me to have been the Constitutional Court, huh? , with the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Let's remember that we're precisely in a... our country doesn't have a rule that has approved its fellow citizens, huh? And that seems to me to be an abnormality from all points of view. We have always repeated very often in this rostrum, and on the part of many people, the famous three great 80_per_cent consensuses. And I think it's very important. Jo... well, it's just... I'm sorry. No, no, it's how you always laugh when it comes to these fears, isn't it? I don't know, read the polls and read the election results. Yes, yes; there are 70, 80_percent Catalans who do not consider the monarchical institution to be their own institution. I think in this case it's stronger than the percentage. There are 80 per cent of Catalans who do not believe that politics should be brought to justice in the 21st century, but that is why we have a democratic system. And there are 80 percent of Catalans who are also in favor of the people of Catalonia deciding freely their future. Tomorrow we will vote in this Parliament on a motion for a resolution that will strengthen and demand the exercise of the right of self-determination. And it seems to me to be very important; it seems to me very important that the chamber reposition itself on this subject. And what I would also ask everyone who will vote on this motion for a resolution tomorrow is that this defence of the right of self-determination is not just the defence of the Parliament of Catalonia, defence of it, defence of it in Madrid, defence of Europe, defence of it; what we vote for in the Parliament of Catalonia must be what we defend in each of its parliaments in which we are represented. But I would like to thank you, Mr. Iceta, for your priorities: knowledge of the centre, education, public health, struggle against inequalities, fight territorial inequalities, climate change, stable occupation, etc. Indeed, I think that there is a body of priorities on which we could agree; certainly, we could agree. And on some of these issues I think we need to establish a summer pact, because this country needs it. And, therefore, from this point of view I do appreciate it, so that we have this point of departure, if we could reach some agreements in the future. In Comú Pode, Mrs Albiach, I agree that real Catalonia is a complex Catalonia and that complex Catalonia is real Catalonia. That's it. The complexity of our country – which in the end must also be so complex with any other country, eh? – it's a value in itself. And, therefore, this plurality, this complexity, these diverse accents the fan, our country, so, special, if I may. And that probably also explains, when we first talked about the measures, the whole subject of associationism, of voluntarism, of solidarity, of the athenaeums. There is a Catalonia that defends from cultural questions to economic or social questions, what follows, or its barri. And, therefore, I think yes, that this is the Catalonia that we have to put in value and the Catalonia that we all – which we all – believe. I don't want to tell you that I fully share the criticisms that you have addressed to the Ciutadans Group, and that I subscribe to the cent_per_cent, and that, in change, we say that I share much less of what you have done to the government, huh? , especially considering that we have made the effort to enhance, so two-cents and demand measurements; now we won't have enough time to get in there one by one. But I would like to tell you the following: I say, you always tend to tell us that we separate the social and the national, and I think this is false. I wouldn't be independent if you thought I was just fighting for one of the two axes, really. I think they're just the two loved ones in the same coin, huh? And, therefore, from this point of view, I at least express what my opinion is. On our legislative output, therefore, I also regret not to coincide with you. The government has not brought a law to Parliament, it has brought seven bills of law and divided decrees of law. Fifteen of these decrees from the government have already been ratified by Parliament. We've also approved fourteen preliminary memoranda. And as you also know, by agreement of April 24, 19, the Government approved a normative plan of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia. I could do the relationship of all the decrees and all the bills submitted and preliminary memoranda, but if we want to do that later. You also made a call to Mr. Iceta at the end of your intervention. What I would like to comment on is that never, on the part of the Government – I think neither of Junts per Catalunya..., and allow me, Esquerra's companions, also, that I speak for Esquerra –, never, have we missed the votes of In Comú Podemos nor of Podemos, have we ever humiliated the voters of En Comú Podemos and of Podemos. On the contrary, I think that we have always been sitting on the table in case you at any time wish to reach agreement with us, to agreements that we understand are actually to be negotiated and that are to be agreed, huh? And from this point of view, therefore, I regret once more that we could not have reached an agreement in which it was the processing of assumptions. Benvolgut Carles, the companies of the CUP, I think that "action and determination, effectively, are two words that I share. I think that this country, in front of the challenges that will come, before some sentiments, that, if they are not absolute, they do not only judge our companies and companies that are in prison, but that they judge the right to self-determination in Catalonia, will not only need to respond in a form of protest, but also in a form of political response. And the political response to these feelings I only conceive from two points of view: a democratic response and a response based on the exercise of the right to self-determination. I think we have an opportunity, an opportunity here, that we have to work, that we have to make sure, that we have to talk, that we have to debate, but a great opportunity because effectively the feelings are, if you want, then, that point of inflection also within independence, huh? to re-exercise the civil, social and political rights that are denied. That's what we're going to do again, just this. If the right to protest is denied, we will protest; if the right to freedom of expression is denied, we will express ourselves; if the right to self-determination is denied, we will self-determine. I think that this is essentially an expression, the synthesis of a title, which is not said by the President of the Generality, that it is said by entities such as Ómnium, thousands of citizens, and that in some way also means that now the companies of the CUP also had to not normalize the resignation, that I agree very much. Mr. Fernández. Well, I'm glad you liked my exhibition, huh? No, fantastically, I must have passed fantastically up here. All right. All the way, you think I have eight hundred standards, and more, that we could follow if you need to, huh? And so, on the day that you, then, want to mediate, you let me know and I explained these resolutions. Home, titillating us from populists to us, man, me, honestly, huh? , after your pact in my country, in Spain, with Vox, which is fascism, populist fascism, so allow me to tell you that it seems like an authentic barbarity. It seems to me that the most important part of his exhibition was, in the band of the song... that God guarded us from me going to do something like that, huh? I don't know, I think it would be much better for the soundtrack of the Titanic orchestra. But I think what was really interesting about your intervention was when you put your focus on living together, huh? I insist, I deny that there is a problem of coexistence in Catalonia; there is a political debate in Catalonia – there is a political debate in Catalonia. Who has a problem of coexistence, gravely, is the Spanish State, where extreme right-wing forces have appeared, faixist forces, which is indeed a difficult problem, when forces like these appear to a country. And that you, that Citizens come to agree with these forces, I think that this is a problem that can generate a difficult coexistence problem between the Spanish State. But in Catalonia there is a problem of democracy, there is a problem of public debate about whether or not we are interested in being independent. I can..., and I'd like to explain it to you and discuss it with you because I think Catalans are winning it with independence. And you have all the right to stand up in the gallery and say, "No, you don't want them to be independent because they'd lose them, because for you I'd suppose a harm, for what it is, huh? For whatever reason they are. But why can't we have this debate, quietly, without threats, without threats, without putting ourselves in jail simply to debate a question like this? I think this is the important point, huh? And, therefore, I would like to make it clear once more that there is no problem of coexistence in Catalonia, there is a problem of democracy, there is a problem of respect for human rights, its civil and political rights, citizens' rights, and the right to self-determination of peoples. And to the companies of Esquerra and Juntes for Catalonia, thanks for the support to the Government, thanks for your interventions, so with which I fully agree. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.144.0	It will be two and a half minutes for each parliamentary group, and we will make one and a half minutes for the subgroups. So, Mrs. Roldán, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.145.0	Yes; thank you, President. Mr. Torra, I don't know, really, you've come here..., and you always complain about the forms of others, but yours leaves much to be desired. Yours and your group's. They have spoken here about gags, but we have had to listen for example to 'the trio of 155; you called us'mariachis' at the beginning of your speech; 'the 155 retails of the ABC, that this is another gag too; 'democracy of cartoons, too; 'the king trickant com un boig. What's the matter, that the gags you can do, the others can't, right? As always. You say what can be done and what cannot be done. As always. Because you have a problem of freedom, I told you before, you have a problem of freedom. And they also continue to demonstrate the problem they have of reality. You have said that this is not..., that here there is no problem of coexistence; you just said it. There's no cohabitation problem here, no. That's why the radicals, those you're jealous of and telling them to squeeze, to squeeze, are going to legibly clean the soil we trample on, the soil the constitutionalists trample on. Isn't that a problem of coexistence, Mr. Torra? What's that? Because besides, you justify, encourage, jealous them, tell them to squeeze, these people. That's not a cohabitation problem. That you are dedicated to declaring us people not grateful for our ideas, that is not a problem of coexistence, is it? No, no. It is not an identity debate, we have been told too. No, man, it's not an identity debate, but we have to read things like this that you wrote. He said: "Spain has essentially been an exporter of misery, materially and spiritually speaking. Everything that has been touched by the Spaniards has been caused by racial discrimination, social differences and underdevelopment. What is this, Mr. Torra? Because that's what you wrote; that's a lot of other things. « Outings on the street and on the street do not indicate that there is the road of your peers and your opinions. The castle is moving forward, relentless, voracious, fast. That's what you think of the Catalans that we also feel Spanish, huh? Of the Catalans who came here, very many people, to work and who are obviously also Catalans, they are not instruments of linguistic colonization, as you say [[applause]] No, they're Catalans just like you – just like you. And until they recognize this, here in Catalonia, we cannot live and live together, which you say there is no problem of coexistence; the problem of coexistence you believe, of truth. They had the opportunity to rule for all Catalans, they had the opportunity to get to work to solve the problems I told him. From everything I explained to my intervention, from all the worrying data I gave to my intervention, you only got the bar, that says a lot of your priorities for Catalonia. Don't let the one we do have an idea of Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.146.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.147.0	...integrator and everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.148.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the turn of Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.149.0	Thank you, President. Most honourable President, you said: "The one who beat the Statute was the Constitutional Court. Miri, the Constitutional Court modified it, and I think it made a big mistake, but you wanted to repeal it, and so we're talking about very different things. [[Greetings.]] Second, it's a lot about 80 per cent. Look, I'm the truth that every time I see it narrows down the area where one can count on the truth. For example, 135 Members of the Third Party, 90. Well, it's the total, and the two thirds are calculated on the total, and if you don't ask, and so, 90. If we want to make a statutory reform, 90 Members have to support it, then we have to negotiate with the General Courts and submit it to reference. What do you want to change the Constitution? Parliament may refer to the Congress of Deputies a proposal to be approved, depending on what it wishes to touch, or for three_five_parts or two_thirds. And I don't want to recognize this is what really breaks living together, because the great guarantee of living together is a legal framework respected for everyone, and that's the problem. Finally, effectively, you say that with our extended hand. We are a party of government, of fact we govern many institutions with very cross-cutting agreements, very diverse and, therefore, our obsession, our priority is to defend the interests of the citizenry and, therefore, if there are opportunities to improve local finance, if there are opportunities to reduce territorial imbalance, if there are opportunities to effectively attack climate change, to promote economic development, to reduce inequality, we, of course, want to be; now, at some point, we have to decide whether we want to agree or want to break; we have to decide whether legality is respected or whether we want another model, which I don't know who it is. And so, at some point, someone will have to say or recognize truths that have been denied and that they are, in part, the ones that explain the problems we have today and, even so, the absence of some Members in this chamber. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.150.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.151.0	Yes, thank you, President. President, this Parliament has only approved a single bill of law, which are the laws the government brings to approve, and it is the agency of public salvation. It is true that some of them are in progress, but at the moment they have not been able to approve of it any more and an example was the fake decree of habitating. If we did not separate the social and the national sectors, we would not be able to understand the squandering of assumptions that we were supposed to adopt, because it contemplated misery for the schools of Bressol, misery against the masclistic rapes or zero_euros for the public residences. And the reality is that real Catalonia needs answers and solutions and the problem is that there is not a single government that is cohesive, there are two governments that compete and, in fact, there are a few days that there seems to be three or four governments. And the government crises are counting for weeks and every week they have an embolism, so, clearly, the fruit of these bars is a government that is paralyzed and that does not act to cope with the brutal increase of the lists of wait, that we have seen as they have increased in 91,000 people, in the climate emergency, in fact you are not developing the Law of the climate change and we can lose the train of the energy transition and, moreover, are leaving thousands of people in a situation of poor unprotected of the guaranteed return of citizenship. And the consequence of this governance and this paralysis is that the power groups, the economic groups are acting without limits because of the lack of public regulation, and we're seeing how the prices are shooting and how it's driving the veins and veins out of their barrels or how private health insurers have increased because there's a leftover from the public system. That's the reality. I'm done. In real Catalonia we all live together, and luckily, many times, it went far ahead of what we see in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.152.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent cry is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.153.0	Thank you, President. Well, actually, real Catalonia needs big country agreements. In Madrid we already know that the only possible agreement is to deny the right to self-determination, normalize repression and, among other things, to renounce the repeal of the law bite or labor reform. In change, as Catalonia is an area of freedom and social rights, civil and political for everyone, for everyone, without exclusion. For us this is indisputably based on self-determination, gaining sovereignty, competing with the State and IBEX 35 companies for public control of our common resources and benefits, social rights and civil and political rights. Indeed, if it is a matter of building big country agreements on these issues, we have our hands full and we will continue to be poor, we will continue to face up to whether it is a matter of managing autonomy, compliance with the State and renunciation of social rights, civil rights and political rights. And, effectively, meeting these great objectives inevitably demands to transgress the State and capital, requires to return to it, requires that independence fully embraces the leadership and referencing of the struggle in this country for the defense of social rights, civil rights and political rights for everyone, and also the defense of environmental rights and the fight against climate change. It is essential that independence is consolidated with that reference, that majority leadership that guarantees a country of rights for all and for all. And, effectively, we know that it will be necessary to go back there, that it will be necessary to go back, step by step, all that the State and the Supreme Court forbid us and accuse us for having done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.154.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.155.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Torra, if I ever encourage myself to sing with the soundtrack of the Titanic background music, I'll ask you to do the choirs, because here I only know a politician who has a more complex panorama than mine, which is you. So that's where we've got it. [[relays]] an unknown solidarity that I think we could cultivate for the future. Look, these things always try to define them as accurately as possible, even when they ask me. I try to run away from saying words like 'Catalonia is ulsterized, because I don't think it is ulsterized, and I try to be more precise, but it could go a long way if we continue to consider a substantial part of the population colonists, traitors and botiflers to disagree – to disagree – I repeat. And that doesn't give me the feeling that you just understood it. And there's the snake of division and the break-up of coexistence, thinking that someone, by disputing, is your enemy to death. And that can't be the case anymore. And until you understand that rule of cohabitation, we can't move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.156.0	Thank you, Congressman. Correspond now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to the deputy Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.157.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Mr. Iceta, just a tip, about expanding majorities or majorities needed, 80_per_cent, and they say it Metroscopies or Gesop, little suspect of independenceists one and the other. And I think 80 percent, and you have to believe it too, it's a good enough majority, and we have it. We have it to resolve the voting conflict. And not recognizing it is denying us the solution. And, on the other hand, voting is also the best way to deal with the six-point proposal that you did to us. Therefore, if you want reinforced majorities, we have them to vote. And, Mrs. Roldán, you attack all the elements that you consider unique to our culture, starting with language. And that's the reason they were born. They were born to divide the Catalan society, to load the immersion model. A model of linguistic immersion that needs to be found in the barres obres of the metropolitan area, driven by worried couples and seas because their children have the future that surrounded them, that have no opportunities, and linguistic immersion is not touched – it is not touched. They also attack public communication media. And these media are leaders in Catalonia and the best regarded for Catalans in the last fifteen years. And I want to lose the Catalan police. And the Catalan police is the police that did the job for Barcelona's tempts. Attack all the pillars of Catalan society. And here everyone is from the outside. Everyone has a acquaintance or a relative who is from outside, and this has not only never been a problem, but it is the main wealth of this country. And here's three hundred idioms, and the catalá is the common language and the first language of this country. And that explains why not only a large part of these citizens come out every September 11th, but also, this very city is what comes out to mobilize for the causes that affect our home and the other reasons of the world. And that happens while you don't ask for forgiveness for all the evil you've done to IES Palau, where you applied your hate and division strategy. [[Greetings.]] And do they know what their main problem is? That every day your project goes down a little bit more. And I know it's hard to tell them - I do, but they won't win our house again. And they won't win again because it can't be... at home... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.158.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.159.0	And they're not going to make any Catalan elections, so tell them as usual, because our house is home to everyone. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.160.0	Quiet. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.161.0	Because he can't be a feminist in this microphone and, at times, Vox's main ally, because his problem is the lack of coherence. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.162.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.163.0	And this lack of coherence will make them... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.164.0	Thank you, Congressman. It's finally coming back, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia... silence everyone. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah? On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Eduard Pujol. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.165.0	Ladies and gentlemen of the House. Mrs Roldán, I have already told you that we will not enter the bronch, the tavern, the "lio. You like the tavern, and we don't like the tavern, we like the institutional respect of this Parliament, which means institutional respect for the citizens of this country. [[Greetings.]] And it's my turn to say it with a touch of emotion. Mrs. Roldán, we can make a living language, a language that goes to the limit, but we can't make jokes. And you know why? – Mrs. Roldán, I'm talking to you. We can't win because we have companies in prison and companies in exile. [[Greetings.]] And, for that matter, we're still serious. With respect to the hemicicle and respect for those who one day took responsibility for government and are paying to have carried, to have had case of an electoral program. This is the great sin of those who are in exile and in prison. And they won't get it, Mrs. Roldán, they won't get mixed up. Catalonia is a country of mestissatge, it is a country of sum, proudly of sum, and, I have also told him in my intervention, of common project of future. This is the debate. This isn't about flags. You want years of flags and languages and surnames and I don't know how many more things you're looking for, you're looking for the identity debate, and that was a common project of the future. And the future we'll all decide. And at the time of deciding everyone, obviously, there are guests, not on the sidelines. Mr. Iceta, very quickly. We could reform the Statute with the parliamentary majority that has... with the numbers that are now in this Parliament, but curiously, since the 21st of December, we haven't been all of them. That's what we should be ruminating about. We haven't all been there, because someone decided we weren't all there. And, in the same way, I see that Mr. Sanchez wants to be president with four secret votes in prison. That's read. It's a very new, very innovative concept. [[applause]] - Man, they're modern! – a new democracy. This brings democracy to bear, and this is why we are going to cheat on democracy: four people who should vote, who have the duty to vote for the citizens of this country and who the State decides that they will not follow tomorrow. A very strange way to defend democracy. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Leave it here. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.166.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the debate, this presidency has made them aware that, in accordance with the sequence agreed for the Board of Spokesmen, the processing of the motions for resolutions following this debate will follow: the deadline for submitting the motions for resolutions is until today the deadline for suspending the session of this late, therefore, from here to a sitting; the qualification and communication to the parliamentary groups and sub-groups of the proposals admitted to the Bureau will be fifteen minutes after the end of today's plenary session and the deadline for submitting the compromise proposals will be until tomorrow at one noon. I also remind you that, as the same Board of Spokesmen agreed, this term will be improbable. Subsequently, the communication to the Bureau of the motions for resolutions on which a separate vote is requested must be made before three o'clock in the afternoon, also as it was put to the Board of Spokesmen, and that, finally, the vote on these motions for resolutions and the transactions will be made later. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the recognition and guarantee of the rights of women]] [[401-00015/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The gift is the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the recognition and guarantee of the rights of women. We will continue, therefore, to read the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the recognition and guarantee of the rights of women and will do so the fourth secretary, Mrs. Adriana Delgado, who is asked to proceed with the reading. Secretarial...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.167.0	Thank you, President. « Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the recognition and guarantee of the rights of women. The Parliament of Catalonia assumes and makes its Declaration of the Parliament of the Donations, of '1 July 2019. The Fourth International Conference of the Dona, which took place in September 1995 in Beijing, obtained an unprecedented attendance: dissit_thousand participants and thirty_th thousand activists from all over arrived in Beijing to participate in the inauguration. For weeks, the foundations of a women's policy agenda were established, a declaration was drawn up and a platform of action was created that has been instrumental in hearing the profound changes of society, the result of differences and consensus, but above all, of the willingness to put on the state map the need to recognize and guarantee the rights of women, and that institutions are added to this objective. The Parliament of Catalonia takes over the replete of that spirit, with a democratic gesture from September 1995, which laid emphasis on the idea that women cannot continue on the margins of politics, but must be located in the centre. Women must decide for themselves and be escorted and recognized as subjects of right. The 1995 Beijing Platform for Action imagined a world in which all women and children can exercise their freedom and live in real equality. Because it could be done, he made a series of recommendations to all institutions, concrete in actions, aimed at guaranteeing the rights of women, such as living without violence, attending school, having salvation beyond the absence of maladies, participating in decisions and obtaining the same remuneration for the same work. At the age of five-twenty years, there have been many setbacks, but there are others who are still insufficient. Cross-sectionality opens the way for diversity to be central and to be able to work on equality with the recognition of differences as at common values. The Beijing process triggered a political will that does not come back, and they cannot allow setbacks because of past or present phonationalism. He also pointed out on a global scale the discriminations derived from patriarchy that were endured by the women and that they were silenced. Connected and strengthened the activism of women's movements in the international arena. Twenty-five years later, elected representatives of the country and of the women's entities and experts gathered in the National Council of the Dones of Catalonia met in the Parliament of Catalonia as the Parliament of the Dones, to continue transforming the world with small gestures full of symbolism and compromise towards the future. These future commitments, gathered in this declaration, must be present in all institutions and in all mechanisms and instruments. One of the main instruments, which had already been established at the Beijing conference, is the right allocation of resources and the need to have assumptions that truly guarantee equality policies under a gender perspective and equity parameter and, above all, that eliminate the discriminatory bases of the patriarchal system. The challenges presented in this declaration include the 12 areas set out for the Beijing Declaration in 1995, in which women's human rights, right to education and culture, labour and economic rights, right to social and political participation, sexual and reproductive health and rights, and right of women and children to live free of male violence. This statement is the cornerstone of a long way past the commemoration of the twenty-five years of the Beijing conference, and it is undertaken with the will that you serve to begin listening and recognizing the women to build, among all of us, a space to transform society into a fairer, more diverse and more equal society. With this statement, it is noted that the future passes necessarily to put life and healing in the center of the vines, and that forms are also part of the foundation. It must therefore facilitate the compromise of all women to be at the top of the country in order to face the challenges that the Beijing conference marked. Human rights The legal focus on human rights, expressed in conventions and other instruments of women's rights, is essential but not sufficient to bring about change in the culture that sustains unequal gender relations. For this reason, from all feminist movements and all those fighting against discrimination, it continues to work to change the patriarchal paradigm and achieve social transformation, with the international instruments of women's rights contained in feminist politics. The Catalan Parliament warns about the fragility of states to recognize the rights of women as human rights, protect them and guarantee them. The 1993 Vienna Declaration recognizes the rights of women as human rights for the first time. They are thus recognized in international agreements and instruments, such as the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Vienna Declaration, the International Conference of the Dona de Pequín and the International Conference of Cairo. Other international treaties on non-specific human rights and monitoring committees have incorporated the gender perspective during these years. It is necessary to collect the content of the justice of the international instruments and to make them effective in policies in Catalonia from an approach of intersectionality, which allows to identify the different axes of discrimination and address its causes, instead of addressing its effects. It should be noted that gender mainstreaming is an effective strategy to advance the achievement of equality between women and men in public policies and helps to eliminate inequalities, correct procedures and work methods, and promote social change trends. It is not a sporadic application of punctual measures, but of the application of transversal gene policies that signify a structural and social change. The Parliament of Catalonia makes Resolution 1325, on women, pau and security, of the United Nations Security Council, a resolution that reaffirms the need to increase the role of women in decision making respects the prevention and resolution of conflicts, and in the consolidation of the pau. Also, remember that it is necessary to continue to highlight the fact that children and women are the main victims of conflicts and rapes, and that, therefore, a specific approach is required to deal with it. Education and culture Parliament ratified that Catalonia has a legal order with standards such as Law 17/2015, of effective equality of women and men; Law 5/2008, of the right of women to eradicate male violence, and Law 11/2014, to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersexual and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia. Some laws that propose co-education as an essential element to absolve educational objectives and at the same time prevent discrimination, injustice and violence against children and women. But it is necessary to make the presentation of these laws, which, in the band of having an adequate premise, must gather the plurality and diversity of women and children from the context, the realities, the needs and the social, political and economic position they occupy. When it comes to culture and education, androcentrism continues to be dominant in all areas of knowledge, in all its manifestations and in its dissemination and perpetuation. It is important that education is not a mere transmitter of this patriarchal society, but rather that it inspires to make another world possible. The mark of concrete education must always be that of an education that promotes democratic values, co-education and critical experience throughout life, from the stage of zero to three years until the education of adult people. The Catalonian Parliament continues to highlight the importance of teacher training for the cross-sectional incorporation of the gender perspective, in order to overcome androcentrism in the content and gender stereotypes of conducts and attitudes that cause situations of male violence in the school environment, an environment that should be friendly and protective and empowering children and women. It is necessary to incorporate emotional education effectively into the wider compulsory education, adapted to each age stage, with a feminist perspective and a focus on sexual and reproductive rights. In order to combine equal opportunities and recognition and value of difference, both in the field of formal education and in the field of non-formal education at the time of graduation, such as the use of an inclusive language, which makes visible the female—verbal and iconic–; the occupation of spaces, especially those of the oci, such as school countries, without stereotypes; the promotion of scientific and mathematical degrees between women, and a content of the educational curriculum which makes visible all areas where they are and historically have been the women, all the contributions they have made in favor of survival and the quality of daily life, women's knowledge, the artistic manifestations of the phenomena that replenish the women's lives. We want to point out the role of families, in all diversity, as transmitters of education and culture; we want to highlight the role of women, the need to promote greater co-responsibility of men, and the value of intergenerational dialogue. Culture and education are from the point of view of culture, and, in the most general field of right to culture, the objectives are to focus above all on communication media, museums and other institutions of dissemination of knowledge, artistic manifestation, literary publication, entertainment, and in the field of music and sport, such as promoting a non-stereotyped image of women. There must be a balanced presence of women in areas where they are minorities, all denouncing the obstacles that stand in the way of them. Finally, we must insist on the need for political will and funding and the necessary resources. It is important to ensure the continuity and expansion of good quality practices. It is necessary to detect deficiencies and promote action in areas with deficiencies. It is recommended that effective follow-up mechanisms, specific observatories, appropriate indicators and the establishment of accountability areas for existing laws and a good dissemination of the results achieved be put in place. Rights laboratoires i economics In relation to labour and economic rights, it is necessary to fight against job insecurity and to promote real equal pay between women and men, by mitigating the elimination of the wage gap, the compliment of legislation on equal pay plans, collective bargaining and plans to eliminate pay inequality; the work to overcome the segregation of the labour market, the elimination of the wage gap derived from the dubious land and the sexist value of female workers and occupations, and the involvement of all spheres – including the public – with policies of social assistance, in an advent to the co-responsibility that allows work, personal and caring life to be combined with men and women. It is essential, as well, to promote real parity in decision-making places, by mediating the establishment of systems, such as quotas, which guarantees, as a minimum, fifty_percent of women in business-directing bodies, administration and the institutional environment; the empowerment of women with mentoring programs to overcome the glass floor; and the regulation of the actual compliment of mechanisms that tend to be parity, such as now the zipper lists. Another priority is the need to age for the real equality of the self-governing woman and the woman in rural areas. The combination of discriminations suffered by women in the workplace has a decisive impact on present and future performance, for this reason it is necessary to fight against the feminization of the poor by means of a national plan which provides for the creation of indicators with a gender perspective; the impetus for specific measures to guarantee the rights of the most vulnerable groups of women by means of real access to guaranteed income, the increase of non-contributory pensions, with interprofessional minimum wage as reference, the equipping of the rights of single-parent families with those of the families named, and priority access to social housing, and the application of social policies with a gender perspective. Social and political participation The feminist movement is a key agent of social transformation and a dic of contention in front of groups that promote intolerance and attack equality and diversity. That is why I want to promote reforms to achieve the right to social and political participation of all women. One of the priority actions that can be undertaken is to age because women's and men's parity tends to be fifty_per_cent in all organs of all institutions, public administrations and social and political organizations, and also in debates and in the opinion spaces of communication media, promote co-leaders, creating mechanisms for monitoring the compliment of betting and taking care to incorporate diversity – of cultural, functional, gender identity, sexual orientation and age. Secondly, to ensure the sustainability of calls for public aid to women's and women's entities, to provide assistance for subsidies, and the incorporation of a gender perspective into civic participation processes, to promote visibility and recognition of contributions and forms of organization of migrant or racialized women and to ensure that participation councils continue to be decision-making bodies where public authorities are held accountable for their actions. Finally, it is essential to eradicate all forms of discrimination suffered by women at the time of exercising the right to political participation, such as now the limitations to which migrant women are confronted; the legal restrictions on the free exercise of the right to assembly and demonstration; the lack of effective measures of reconciliation of personal, family and labour life; male-based violence against social groups affected by women who are active in politics and women; the digital generation – especially between women of vulnerable communities – or the lack of adequate response by social and political organizations to sexual or psychological attitudes towards women. Hi sexual rights and reproductions In the matter of health and sexual and reproductive rights of women, such a change of model of prevention and health care, that is universal, that helps the social and environmental determinants of health with a perspective of gender, feminist and cross-sectional, based on the human rights of women, and that reduces sexual and gender diversity. For this reason, it is necessary to promote universal access to women, throughout life, to health and information services with territorial equity, appropriate to the context and diversity of cases, realities, lives and life cycles, and to incorporate into it the point of view of sexual and reproductive rights of women in a holistic and inclusive manner, which are old for the security, autonomy and sovereignty of the things, which respect the right to decide on women to have children or not to have them and choose how to form a family. Promotion and prevention of women-oriented health programmes must be strengthened, with a special impact on affective and sexual education and co-responsibility; ensuring information, universal and free access and territorial equity in access to abortion, contraception and fertility services; promoting research, training and dissemination of information on the health of women with a gender perspective. It also increases the resources allocated to the health care of women, supervises them and systematically monitors their collective salvation, and strives for the equitable distribution of assumptions and for the implementation of an accountability policy. Right of women and children to live free of male violence The Parliament of Catalonia, before the difficult situation of violation of rights that involves male violence, recalls the careful diligence with which the states must act, collected in the international law, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Beijing Declaration and the Istanbul Convention. For this reason, and in order to give effect to this due diligence, it is necessary to adopt measures such as the following: It may amend Law 5/2008 of 24 April 2008 on the right of women to eradicate male violence, to include institutional violence, to establish its definition, types and sanctioning and reparation procedures, and to create an observer external to the Public Administration who backs complaints of women and entities with regard to institutional violence. The Law has to establish the mechanisms it guarantees: the approach of all forms of male violence; the attention of women in a period of hope not exceeding fifteen or twenty days; the quality of this attention with the specialisation of public places and clauses for externalisations that guarantee decent working conditions, among other measures of struggle against the precariousness of the sector; the elaboration of a quality study of judicial bodies that allows to adopt appropriate measures in the fight against male violence, and, finally, the instruments to control the compliment of the Law. To ensure the full care of children and adolescents in a situation of male violence, with sufficient resources and services, coordinating the care network for male violence and the protection network for children with protocols with a gender perspective and adequate training; with the establishment of protocols with a gender perspective to care for minor victims of sexual violence – such as the new Barnahus model or others who have recognized non-victimization – and resources to respond to rape situations such as forced marriages or female genital mutilation. It is necessary to ensure the psycho-educational and therapeutic care of minors, so that they cannot remain conditional on obtaining the consent of both parents or, if not obtained, on the interposition of criminal or civil legal proceedings. The Administration, in compliment of the due diligence and the superior interest of children and young people, must guarantee the formation of the judiciary and legal operators in order to avoid, as established by the legislation in force, the feelings that hold shared custody in situations of male violence, and to review the function of the finding points, which must prioritise and guarantee the superior welfare of children. It is necessary to guarantee the rights of victims of trafficking in sexual exploitation with specific measures of support from the very moment that this situation of violence is detected, and to recognize our rights as victims. It is essential to lead from women's policies access to comprehensive care networks, resources and services, to security and legal assistance promoting detection and identification tools that allow the exercise of these rights, without need or need for cooperation or complaint in the police or judicial spheres, by means of a broad feminist approach, which takes into account all types of trafficking recognised with the exception of Directive 36/2011/EU, the European Parliament and the Council of 5 April 2011 on prevention and fight against trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims, which affect, in particular, situations such as sex trafficking. It is an ethical feminist approach that takes positions that give priority to questions of supposed civic coexistence or that builds perfect victims based on stereotypes; that expands training to professionals and differentiates realities – that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that it is, that is, that is, that is, that it is, that is, that is, that is, that it is, that is, that is, that it is, that is, that is, that is, that it is, that it is, that it is, that it is, that it is, that it is, that it is, Palau del Parlament, July 24, 2019. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-07-24-3602.168.0	Thank you, Secretary Delgado; thank you also to the members of the Consell Nacional de les Dones, the president of the Institut Català de les Dones, to accompany us on this reading. The point of the order of the day that was expected to be followed by the passage, before the hour, tomorrow, so that tomorrow morning we will begin and resume the Ple with the decree that was expected to see his two-quarters of God, and then we will make the motion that was established as the number 13 of the order of the day, which is what we were to do at these times. Therefore, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock in the morning. Thank you very much.
