ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.1.0	And we're giving the start to the Ple's dam. [[Motion for a resolution on the closure of General Cable plants in Manlleu and Montcada and Reixac]] [[250-01016/12]] In this case with the agenda item, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the closure of General Cable's plants in Manlleu and Montcada and Reixac. As this proposal has been presented jointly for all parliamentary groups and sub-groups, we will open a single two-minute intervention round for each parliamentary and five groups, for the sub-group. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the deputy Carmen de Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Good morning to General Cable's workers present here at the hemicicle. And to begin with, I suppose you know that, but you know that all the parliamentary groups present in Parliament have agreed to push forward this motion that we are going to vote on in order to try to help the maximum in this process, in this unfortunate process that you are experiencing. These plants, the plants of General Cable that are pending a closure or the suppression of all jobs, give work directly to more than five hundred families in Catalonia and indirectly to more than 2,500 families. The closure of these plants, therefore, will cause a serious economic, social and family breakdown in the regions of Osona and Vallés. The requests made in this motion for a resolution seek to reduce as far as possible the effects which it can cause, although the scope of the efforts which the Generalitat can make at this stage is rather limited and should in any case have a palliative effect. We would even add some more measures aimed at improving the qualifications of workers involved in the employment regulation dossier. Training, training and more training is the best recipe to keep the professional qualification up to date and to have greater chances of reintegrating into the world of work as soon as possible. From this parliamentary group we are not tired of repeating to the Government that it has completely disentangled itself from reality, that it is only interested in the matters arising from the secessionist drift promoted by the Catalan administration with particular virulence in recent times. The Government not only does not govern, but is not able to create the economic impulses necessary for productive investment to come to our region and create jobs. From our group we are not tired of repeating that the current social and economic situation does not favour the attraction of investors, job creation and economic growth at all. As far as other political options are concerned, the only way that citizens, Catalan workers can defend improvements in employment and wages is by creating the wealth that companies generate, and they only bet on territories that offer legal certainty. There was just yesterday the president of SEAT, Luca de Meo, who says that the current image does not help investors to bet on Catalonia, because companies need serenity and legal certainty. The times of autarchy have passed; we are in full globalization. Maybe it's not the best of the scenarios we have, but it's the one. This tough, inflexible, highly competitive scenario can jeopardize workers' rights achieved after many years of effort and work. The task of the public authorities is not to make matters even worse by increasing the risks inherent in any business project, on the contrary, they must make it easier for investments to provide adequate remuneration for their factors, work and capital, with fairness and proportionality. The closures of highways, the burning streets, the crowded streets repeated hundreds of times in all the information channels of the world, may seem to the Government to be a stepping stone for their disgusting desire to internationalize the process, but all they manage to do is to transmit to the whole world the situation of extreme gravity through which the coexistence in Catalonia passes. They cannot pretend to seek solutions when they are the main source of the conflict. We don't know the real reasons for the Prysmian company's march in our territory. They can be legitimate causes of corporate reorganization that, although painful and following the channels marked by law, we will have to assume, even if we do not like them. There may be speculative reasons as denounced by the works council and trade unions. He said that there may be speculative reasons, and that, obviously, if these are the ones that cause the company to close, we condemn without palliatives. But if what happens..., and what happens is that the march is due to the exponential increase in insecurity in general in Catalonia? Then the most responsible for the situation would be the Government and the parties that support it, since it depends on them, and not on others, to solve the security crisis in which we have been stranded for several months. We ask the Government to rule and to rule well, for everyone; to think of all citizens without taking into account who they vote for; to think of the workers, at the end of the day the main victims and who end up widening the ranks of unemployment. From Citizens we want to send a message to the workers concerned and tell them that, in any case, we will be at their side and we will try to get the government to act as soon as possible and in the best possible way. Nothing more. Thank you very much. And very lucky. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Before giving the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, to the deputy Mrs Marta Moreta, allow me – I did not do the principle – to greet the mayors of Manlleu and the mayor of Montcada and Reixac and the workers who are accompanying us today. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.4.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors, mayors of Manlleu and mayor of Montcada, welcome you here again to the hemisphere. Today, from this cliff I will try – I will try – to make everyone and every one of the five hundred people who see their work places threatened with the closure of the plants of Manlleu and Montcada and Reixac. I have listened, heard and spoken to many people in Prysmian, and I am left with a phrase that resonates with every raccus, every thought of these workers and workers: « Help us save the business and the places of work. This is what the workers of the Prysmian company demand, a multinational that wants the total monopoly of the cable industry and that will leave hundreds of unworkable people to these two plants. Look, 'cause I understand. Here, in this hemisphere, there are 135 places of work. So imagine that these places – these places – will end up this month of November, without work, without a soul entering the house, and, once you've imagined it, multiplicity for four times this amount and will give you the comforts that you think you will bring to the end this giant of the cable industry. Because it's not just in the imagination, this will be a reality to end this month: five hundred families will stay in the street, without work. This motion for a resolution is not just a recollection of the workers and workers of this company, it is a cry for this institution, the most representative of our country doing hand and hand to put an end to this closure. All of them need full recovery on the part of all of us; we need to put an end to this fraud: an unscrupulous company that has bought General Cable for a year and has not waited for more than a year to close it and thus avoid possible competition in the sector. Mirin, in Manlleu, this cable company was founded by a manlleucan businessman in 1921, now neither more nor less than ninety-eight years ago. It is the largest company in the city of Manlleu, a company run over to the territory, known as « El Cordo. The closure of El Cordo in Manlleu will have devastating effects for families who lose their jobs, for the economy of the city, but also for the effects of the tourism in the region of Osona and the destructive effects on the socio-economic life of a people who will lose a leading and specialized company in the world of the electric cable. We find parallels that can serve as precedents for us not to stop fighting for these places of work. In the Basque Country, in 2014, General Cable wanted to lock up a company that was said to be ECN, but the Basque Government made intermediaries putting all its efforts and negotiation, and finally the plant was bought and got the continuity of the various places of work. We may ask why Prysmian wants to close two solvent plants, with great specialization, which has several leading products for sale both at the national and international markets. The company has benefits, and the plants of Manlleu and Montcada, at product level, are the most specialized of the state territory. How, therefore, does the decision to close when the possibility of purchase is totally feasible? And besides, I know there'd be potential buyers. The closure of the plants of Montcada and Manlleu is, according to the company, for reasons of organization and production. These two motii are not justified, since before the purchase of General Cable the cable market gave work to all the plants existing in Catalonia. As political representatives of the highest political institution in Catalonia, we need to work together to reverse this situation and not to give away their closure. We need to be aware of what would happen to Catalonia if cable production is stopped producing on these two plants, the economic damage is obvious. We can't let this cable giant take over the world monopoly of this product. Do you know what impact our country will have when Manlleu and Montcada stop making this product? Do you know the cost of increasing the electrical cable and, of rebounding – who knows – the cost of the light? I'm sure many of you will remember the electrical failure that left hundreds of people in Barcelona without a light – we're talking about a few years. Then, in order to cope with the effects of that failure and to be able to restore the service, a number of generators – of course they remember – had to be installed to ensure that the veins and veins had electricity. The costs involved in this incident were high. What I'm sure they don't know is that it was Manlleu's plant that put over their orders the cable's sub-administration to fix that failure. Do you know what would happen if this sub-ministry came from the Prysmian plant in Milà? So that certainly would not be his priority and that the delivery time would double with writing down what assumed the electrical restoration in Barcelona during that failure, so as not to count, surely, with the economic increase that will suppose that a multinational like Prysmian dominates the world market. If there's no competition, the prizewinners fight. We all know that. Let's talk about wires. Do you know that the Manlleu plant is the only supplier of low-voltage cables to the Vandellòs and Asco nuclear power plants throughout the State? Do you know that this plant is the main supplier of medium voltage cables approved to large companies such as Gas Natural, Endesa, or French or Belgian companies? Do you know that Manlleu's plant is the only one that manufactures submarine cables? Can we afford this lockdown? I'm telling you, I'm not. We can't afford it in any way, we need to reverse this situation and move all the possible cables so that Manlleu and Montcada don't get hurt; but also for Catalonia, because it will be damaged by the closure of these two plants. The motion for a resolution we are debating has been drafted with the arguments of the same workers. We, as political representatives, must be able to approve it unanimously. The industrial tradition of our country has always been envied for many other territories; we cannot afford to lose this small jewel of industrial expertise, because if we look at ourselves at the microterritorial level, these two plants could be considered country structures. We must remember that the closure of the two plants would involve the loss, in addition, the loss of work of very many entrepreneurs and workers who work indirectly: transporters, personnel of services or maintenance companies. If we let these plants tank, we lose competitiveness in our economy, we lose innovation, we lose the opportunity to attract investment and talent, and we lose emerging sectors. We need to boost employment, because we all know that there is no strong economy without a strong industry. Thank you so much for being here. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.6.0	Thank you, President. Well, good morning, workers and workers of Prysmian, Manlleu and Montcada, who accompanied us today; good morning, Mayor Campos; good morning, Mayor Garrido. I would like to begin by publicly showing the support of our parliamentary group for the struggle of the workers of Prysmian, who face a great injustice. To them, to their families, to the entrepreneurs, workers and suppliers who can be indirectly affected if they produce the closure of these two plants, and also to our support to Mayor Campos and Mayor Garrido, because we are ahead of a conflict that has a great – and will have – a great local impact on the municipality of Manila and Montcada and also a great territorial impact, especially in the region of Osona, where Prysmian, therefore, has a significant weight in the industrial fabric of the city. Since our parliamentary group, we are celebrating today that we are bringing here to the plenary a motion for a resolution, jointly, between all the groups in the chamber, eh? Certainly, we believe that this is a success and I would like to thank all the Members and Members who have made it possible, especially Mrs Yolanda López and Mrs Marta Moreta, who, like me, have a territorial link with the problem we are dealing with today. A few days after Prysmian's intention to close his two plants in Manlleu and Montcada was known, so I had the opportunity to get to know the problem firsthand, to meet with Prysmian Manlleu's business committee, to demonstrate all our support, I know that Congresswoman Moreta also did it; I know that President Torrent, too. A few days later, all the parliamentary groups were represented here in this chamber by the workers and workers here in Parliament. And I think it's important that institutions, deputies, deputies; mayors, mayors, we're on the side, we show empathy, we show support, we're on the rise when they produce situations as hard and complex as this. And in this, our group does not have the slightest doubt: we are at the side of the workers and the workers. Certainly, however, a sense of a certain impotence before the limitations of what we can do from this Parliament. Obviously, it is important that we show the support and that we approve all the points of the resolution that we are bringing here today, but in the end, what it is to put solutions, real solutions to a problem that we are dealing with today, which is complex, but needs concrete measures. Legislative measures that we have no competence in this chamber to push forward, such as the repeal of labour reform; and executive measures, that the Government of the Generality does have competence to push forward but that, unfortunately, we are not seeing either action or results in these measures. And here, we are concerned; because the solution is clear. If Prysmian does not want to continue the activity, what is to find a buyer who allows this activity to continue and to maintain the places of work. And they know there are interested buyers. What the Government of the Generality has to do is to intervene, to mediate, to act because of this step; because that is the reality. And it's a problem for the Department of Industry, the Business and Knowledge Councillor, and it's supposed to be here today, it's Constellera Chacón, and we don't see it, badly. And so, that's what we're worried about here, because it's actually a tank that we think we're still in time to avoid and that we want you to do everything you can to avoid. Look, Prysmian's conflict isn't just a case; we're on the verge of a new economic recession, which is nothing more than a new phase of the crisis that we've already started in 2008, from which we've never been out. And now is the time to decide how to deal with this new recession; if we re-pay the popular classes and the middle classes, if they re-pay the majority, the vast majority of society for the benefit of a minority of great economic and financial powers, increasing inequalities, or if it's time, already a change of course and we start betting for real progressive policies, for redistributive policies, for expanded assumptions; for redistributive measures that guarantee equality in this country, through basic rights such as: housing, education, sanitation, pensions or wages and decent, stable and secure working conditions. We need to be aware of the situation. Occupational regulation shippers are multiplying in the last few months here in Catalonia. The Catalan industry is already experiencing an increase in labor crises, 75 accommodations to Bayer, 240 to SADA, with the closing of the Lleida plant ; 94 to TE Connectivity, also to Montcada ; 82 to Amplifon, or the closing of the Microson Bimbo plant ; to put just a few examples of how it is evolving, in the last months, the situation. And with all these, there's now the threat of the two Prysmian plants being locked up. Prysmian's tanking, said now, also, Congresswoman Moreta, would have a direct impact on 487 workers and workers, who would be welcomed; 334 to Manlleu, 153 to Montcada, with a middle age of more than forty years. But it's that the indirect affect is estimated at 2,500 people, because we're talking about an industry that's a district policy, that's a provider's node of other service providers, and that Osona has a lot more than it means. We are talking about more than two thousand affected families, in a city of 20,000 inhabitants and a region of just over 150,000 inhabitants. I don't know if you're aware of the territorial impact of this. Only with these accommodations from the Prysmian plant in Manlleu, would the rate of stay in the region increase in more than four points. Therefore, the impact is really severe. Prysmian's case is a clear case of the effects of neoliberal and saving capitalism to which the policies of the past twenty-five years have led us. I have to make it clear. Here, European social democracy and also the Spanish and Catalan social democracy are responsible, because they have succumbed to market liberalism and resigned to acting only with end-of-canon policies, without attacking the structural causes of the problems, acting on the inequalities generated by the markets; but not generating the conditions to prevent these inequalities from arising. Cal, there's a paradigm shift. We can't go on this path. And that is not just a problem of presumption, or a problem of lack of resources, or of a fiscal policy, which is obviously all that is necessary, but it is, above all, a problem, also, of voluntarity. Because legislating is free, it's free; and repealing labor reform doesn't cost anything and it's been a while since we had to do it. What is currently Prysmian's plant in Manlleu is a factory – now it was commented, too – founded almost a hundred years ago; it has almost a hundred years of history, El Cordo. Founded for a manlleunc and today, of course, in the hands of a large multinational. A factory that has arrived, came to have seven hundred workers, which now has 334, and that has already suffered four regulating expeditions in the last two years. Prysmian is a large multinational, undeveloped territory, without any concern for territorial development and much less for its people. The year 2017, Prysmian bought General Cable, with a single objective, said to us now the deputy of Ciutadans, that it was unclear what was the motive behind Prysmian's tank: I think it is, that it is very clear, because Prysmian already bought General Cable with this single objective, which was his tank to eliminate competition, that was the objective. This is where the model of neoliberalism that we've been installed in for years now brings us. The organisational and productive causes of the regulatory consignment are certainly not. It is more than believed that plants are profitable, that they have no losses, and that they make a type of cable that doesn't make all of Spain any more. And they do it well, as no one else knows, because they've been specialising for a long time. If the plants of Montcada and Manlleu are tanked, this cablejat will have to be searched outside. And when there is – it is said before, too – some emergence in the electric, energetic field, we will have to go looking for this cable out and who knows when we will cheat to hold it and produce it. And we are talking about the energy sector, a sector with large electrical oligopolises, a sector where today we have a new bit of the light that we will pay consumers and consumers unfairly. And the consequence of this, among others, will also be on workers and workers of entrepreneurs like Prysmian. But, let's talk about solutions: the most urgent, find a buyer and mediate because the purchase is effective; that the activity is continued and the work places are maintained. Second, the National Pact for Industry, and here the Government of the Generality must act: to deploy it, to provide it with resources, is essential. But I also need to execute the presuppositional resources that she already has, which she has not done either. And for the last time – and with this I'm done – once and for all repealing labor reform. A labour reform that makes it more flexible and less comfortable has facilitated situations like these. With the new government's agreement to the state, there's no doubt that a new horizon of hope...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.7.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.8.0	...because these and many other situations are starting to change already, once in a while. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.10.0	Good morning, all of you. In the first place, above all to thank the workers and the workers of Prysmian for their presence here today. It's very difficult, in a context... when they put your father from the table, to be able to continue day by day and, therefore, all thanks. And all the thanks, too, because October 9th of this year, 2019, just like many other days, have been permanently mobilized and mobilized, demanding their work places and demanding the maintenance of their work places. And on October 9th, at the gates of Parliament, the workers and the workers, a part of their representatives, gathered with sub-groups and parliamentary groups. And in fact, we want to thank this, because the motion for a resolution that we are now discussing really has more origin in its union action than in our political action. Certainly, there have been different parliamentary groups and parliamentary sub-groups that have taken a lot of initiative, but we always have to pay attention and thank who does trade union action and who always passes us through the joint political representatives of this Parliament. We also wanted to clarify a question and explain it with a certain arrest. We appreciated, of the motion for a resolution that we will adopt today, there was a point in which we disagreed, but we appreciated that it was much more important that there was a presentation as to be given, together, for all groups and agreement of the groups and that the Prysmian workers and workers could use this Parliament as the resonance box for their complaints, rather than our political differences. That many times, even so, they weaken these complaints. So far as we are concerned, we will not ask for a separate vote on point 6, we will vote on the joint motion for a favourable resolution, because we think that today the important thing is not the political representatives, but the important thing is that the workers and the workers, who are represented in this Parliament, are the workers. What do these workers and workers find? So that's the real paradigm of how working classes live the current stage of capitalism for a band, and the effects of the combination of labor counter-reforms. Certainly, together with the 2010 and 2012 work counter-reforms, which political representatives who approved them also have here, sitting on my left, and on my right, who approved 2010 and 2012 work counter-reforms, and who today expressed all the support. For a band, yes, also the pure expression of capitalism, the most salvific expression: that there is a multinational that buys to speculate and that there is a multinational that poses from the table accommodations of workers and workers with the only objective of speculative economy, not productive economy: gain more through a fence, altering the prices of the markets, which is now Prysmian, after the purchase of General Cable for this Italian multinational, therefore, it is the one that wants to transform into a reality, and therefore, new reality of capitalism, that controls the speculative economy more than not the productive economy. But it can also be done from a point of view as it is, in the least, legal; then we'll see if the proposal they make is legal or not legal. For a band, too, the one that formally allows labor counter-reforms, which is that, without the existence of losses– and, therefore, they have not even cared so much about posing from the table economic causes –, it is possible to try to close a company, and as long as they vagrant to look for false productive and organizational causes such as those that have shifted into collective contract extinction, to what we have historically called EROs. And thirdly, we also have a reality for which it is possible to transform what is an industrial polygon into a residential area. And that's what we need to talk about in this Parliament, and we need to find solutions. Certainly our country, our nation does not have skills from a point of view of basic labour regulations, we do not have skills, but we do not have skills can not bring ourselves to a dynamic in which we do not seek other solutions. In fact, we need to redouble our efforts to find solutions. For one band, look for solutions through which it is or should be a standard change and a new regulation of industrial policies, to ensure that it is not possible to requalify these lands so easily, but for another band, not only in words: these representatives of the workers and the workers, the families of Manlleu and Montcada and Reixac, do not only need words, need facts, and certain facts of the parliamentary groups, certain facts of the Councillor of Treball, certain facts of the Councillor of Entrepreneur, that we do not even have it sitting here today, in order to find alternatives and maintain jobs. And this happens to accompany – to accompany – that is what we do, what we have to do together with political groups and all the advisors and advisors of the Government, in the complaints of the workers and workers: either we are at the side of the families – working families – or we are at the side of those and those who develop the speculative economy, and so they consider that no one will do it, to pose on the other side. We know who we are for, and therefore absolute willingness to accompany the workers in their complaints and in their struggle to keep the places of work. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.12.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, Workers, Mayors, we are also in this motion for a resolution, so we were going to express it immediately to the Deputy Marta Moreta, who was in charge of it, led her in her report, and without putting it absolutely inconveniently, because we understand that she was positive, that it is a position that Parliament, in the most consensual way possible, is placed on the side of workers, therefore, well, that they are patenting an absolutely undesirable situation. And they will allow me to express all the empathy and all the solidarity of this Member, but obviously also of my parliamentary group. Other Members have expressed their territorial ties with the company. I can't do it, as far as your businesses are concerned, but I can do it from one side to the next. I hit Vilanova and the Geltrú. And Vilanova and Geltrú there is also Prysmian. But not just that. If I know what I'm doing, it's mostly thanks to the work my father did for more than forty years in a company like Pirelli, now Prysmian, right? And, therefore, they will understand my feeling and my bond somehow with these workers who are now patenting this situation. We have heard many interventions, and depending on the responsibilities that can be attributed or the tasks that we intend to entrust at this time to the Department of Work, but I think I have to make two reflections raising a little look, right? The first one. It has repeatedly referred to the responsibility of capitalism, neoliberalism, globalisation, for the situation that is going on. But all these concepts have two cares. There are those who remember only capitalism when there are companies that leave, there are those who blame neoliberalism when the companies go, there are those who blame globalization when they produce displacements. But it is these very concepts, which are obviously risks, which also offer opportunities: when there are investments in Catalonia and our territories, it is also the fruit of capitalism, it is also the fruit of neoliberalism, it is also the fruit of globalisation. And so, here comes another concept, and we need to see the creation of wealth, we need to see the generation of jobs, not just as an economic fact, which is, but also as a fact that generates social wealth. The best social protection a company can have without doubt is the creation of wealth. And because there is a rich creation, governments also play a phone book. And this is an element that we consider fit. I attach myself to the considerations – because I don't know if it's for..., I'm sure it's for justified reasons – of the absence of the Business Counsellor – I'm convinced that's the case – but it's not just a question of the Business Advisor, it's also a question of the Business Advisor. Why? Because it is important that, collectively, from the government, from the same Parliament, what we do, what we have to do is generate an atmosphere that is favourable for companies to settle in our home and for businesses to lose interest in moving around, to lose interest in leaving. And that requires political stabilization. And so the incendiary speeches don't contribute anything to it. This also requires legal certainty, and they do not contribute to certain spectacles we have given in this Parliament approving absolutely impossible laws. This requires freedom of movement for workers. It does not contribute to anything that there is who is dedicated to closing the border and preventing workers from moving, not just the goods – not just the goods – but also the mobility of the workers. And it wouldn't happen if at least there was a government that defended the citizens, all the citizens, and not just those that are manifest, which is in the situation in which we are. That is not what the motion for a resolution says, but I think it is the main requirement we have to make from this Parliament to the Government of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Albert has the word now. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.14.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, Workers, Workers of Parliament, Mayor Garrido, of Manlleu, Mayor Campos, of Montcada, directors, members of the Committee of Enterprise, Workers and Workers of Prysmian, many thanks for attending today, well in time, at nine in the morning, at the first point in the order of the second session of this week's plenary and with a motion for a resolution that is cabdal, a motion for a resolution that is very important, and we hope that it is also very transcendent; first, because the objective is clear: the objective is to manifest our absolute and total support to workers and workers of Prysmian of the plants of Montcada and Manlleu. Mention has already been made of the figures and the affect that would have these accompaniments not only at the territorial level but also for the map, for the country's joint map, and also for the same sector. Because the message is clear: Prysmian we know very well why he's going away; Prysmian we know very well what his goal is, and he doesn't because Tsunami Democratic is now doing social struggle. We'd always have to applaud all the social struggle moves, because they're the ones that make us move forward like society, and from here I applaud it. Don't go for that. [[Greetings.]] It goes on, among other questions, because from its optical world the globalized world that causes it is that, from the optics of Prysmian, a plant in the United States is much more important than a plant in Manlleu, a plant in Germany is much more important than a plant in Montcada. And why? Because its commercial strategy is this; its commercial strategy is in the world, its commercial strategy is not for Manlleu or Montcada; its commercial strategy is to monopolize the market and to achieve more benefits, more benefits and better business balance. They care a rave about the names of the people they make out to. And that's what we need to worry about. And that's what we're worried about. And why can Prysmian take this step and do it practically without any problem and with all impunity, why? Because we have labor reforms that make it easier for us to accommodate, and work reforms, in plural, those of 2010 and 2012; they make it easier for us to accommodate. They made it very clear to the workers' representatives and to the workers when we met them, they made it very clear to us. These labor reforms allow it to be much more cheap to join the Spanish State than not to join Germany, where Prysmian also has plants. We're on some fronts of globalization, and we have to face them with a very high face and we have to face them looking at the eyes of the popular classes, which are the ones most affected by the backs of globalization. And how do we do it? Taking measures, repealing labour reform. And I take the word from Congressman Parés, I take the word from him because you, as a group, also, as a group, as a group, both here and in Congress, we have been struggling to repeal labor reforms, on the 10th and 12th. And we have seen votes in this Parliament where it has clearly been seen that a labour reform like that of 12 can have some support, but in that of 10 it turns out that there is someone who is getting their hands off, because, yes, it was the labor reform that was promoted by the Socialist Party, which pushed Zapatero. Therefore, here this compromise must be clear, and it is the first step. The return, the return to the application for administrative authorization by the labour authority. It's imperative. Why? Because with administrative authority on the part of the labour authority before starting an employment regulation procedure, with this administrative authority, the Administration can intervene much more quickly. And so in this case the Department of Work would be better able, better able to intervene and deal with the negative consequences of the engagements. But it is not just this, we also have to take on other issues, we also have to take on other responsibilities and we also have to assume that from the business and industry world we can move forward and take steps as we advise and warn of those clues that lead us to think that a company can end up closing. Today we are in Prysmian, but I also spoke yesterday with other trade union representatives from the Nissan, the Nissan of the Free Zone. They now see how they can arrive in the month of December, and for them it will be a great tape to arrive in the month of December. And, if they get through this month, it'll be a great tape to get to June 2020. And if they get over that month, it'll be a great tape to keep moving. The best, the best measure for the social and economic progress of a country always passes through the establishment of its workers and its workers, not through the establishment of the economic balances of the boards of directors of large multinational enterprises. And we need to be very clear about that. And this must be one of the objectives, and it is one of the objectives that I am convinced, too, that this Government, this Government of Catalonia, is established, from its sphere of competence, from its own competitive limitations, because they are obvious. And here deputies and deputies have recognized it. It is for this reason that we, in the motion for a resolution, have raised a number of points..., and that, as the Aragonese deputy also commented very well, for the sake of agreement, because we consider that the most important thing today is that this plenary, from its transversality, but also from its firm and conviction, gives full support and brings this full support to the workers and the workers of Prysmian to the direction of the enterprise. Here in Catalunya, we want you to stay. Here in Catalonia, we want the workers of Manila and Montcada to continue working. And we have to do everything we can so that's it. And we as a parliament today make this decision. And every parliamentary group has made divestitures, because we know perfectly well who are the solutions that we can implement and we know perfectly well who are the paths that we have to resort to. And each parliamentary group has made transfers so that today we have this motion for a resolution from the table and that the picture is very clear, our unanimous support to the Prysmian workers and workers, both from Manlleu and Montcada. At that meeting there were also other workers and other workers. There were companies and companies from TE Connectivity, there were companies and companies from Microson and Amplifon, and there were companies from Monpack. With TE Connectivity, it came to an agreement. Microson and Amplifon also reached an agreement. Monpack's situation is hard and alarming – it's hard and alarming. Why? Because, among other questions, they saw how they had to work for a while and it turns out that they found the blind closed, and now they're in a situation that brings them to a very indefinite problem, because it doesn't allow the Administration to intervene, but it also doesn't allow the company to change their situation. What's that? So they can't go to work because they have a contract in place, but they can't go to their place of work. These situations are giving themselves to our country. And why are they giving themselves away? Because there's legislation that allows it. Therefore, we take measures – we take measures. And the two most important and immediate measures that we can take are: the repeal of labour reforms, the empowerment of the Administration so that it can intervene and, thus, also work to the heart of the National Pact for Industry. We agree, to work hard for the National Pact for Industry and to ensure that our country's industry must be a well-regulated and rationalised industry, and must be a competitive industry. What's to be attractive about? Also, above all competitive, because with the industrial map and with the industrial tradition that Catalonia has it is obvious that this is one of our engines and, therefore, we need to focus and reach great consensus and agreement so that this national pact is a success. And that too will depend not only on the Government of the Generality, but also on the political action of this Parliament, on the political action of the Members of this Parliament. Therefore, we need to move forward and we need to keep moving forward, because we don't want to continue to mention all the EROs that are being planted and all the EROs with which there has been a solution and others that have not – certainly, you know, but labor reform allows that if there is no agreement with ERO, the company will come up with its own. Therefore, it is very easy to mediate, it is easy to mediate! , logically, people don't even know. And this is another one of the templates and another one of the very important and very difficult problems that also facilitates labor reform, not just flexibility, and not just coaxed. So, I come back to the National Pact for Industry, we need to push this big agreement, and I'm sure it's an objective that we have these Members and these Members of this House coming to terms, but also, I'm sure, because we don't want to have more workers and more workers defending their jobs here, in this Chamber, because that means that we are doing well, that we have been able to work and, therefore, there has been economic progress in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Junts for Catalonia, it is the return of Mrs Saloua Laouaji.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.16.0	Thank you, President. Workers and workers, mayor and mayor... [[the speaker laughs]] Mayor, thank you for your presence here this morning – I feel, for the mistake. Good morning, everybody. I begin by insisting on the basic principle. Basically, the right that workers and workers must be protected for the good democratic function, and they must be respected for the enterprise and defenders for the institutions that we represent at this time. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.17.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.18.0	Productive activity is the force that society moves towards the common good, which is why it is important that the socio-economic policies that a partner country measures in the willingness and ability to generate occupation, and it is essential to strengthen the recovery of the occupation with the aim of ensuring sustainable economic growth and avoiding further erosion of social conditions. Moreover, investing in workers and workers, innovation and stimulating trade and social dialogue is essential to confront the possible growth of the country's unemployment. And as we have already said, today we are debating a proposal for a resolution in support of workers and workers in the centres of the General Cabre company merged with Prysmian, the Italian multinational that manufactures cables, electricity transmission system and telecommunications system, and is the major manufacturer of this sector, located in Manila and Montcada and Reixac. We are demonstrating from Junts to Catalonia all our support and help to prevent these centers from being tanky, we cannot allow this. Moreover, we must bear in mind that the closure directly affects five hundred families, five hundred workers and, indirectly, some 2,500 people who provide transportation services, cleanness, maintenance and many other things, all of whom aspire to a dignified life and who obviously depend on this place of work. The closure of these centres would, therefore, immediately, as we said, have a great impact on the occupation of the towns of Osona and Vallès. The ERO announces that the plant of Montcada is the second that is produced in the same place in a short time. TE Connectivity has also announced another, which also has a great impact at R & D level, centres working on development projects, with clients and suppliers and collaborative projects with universities and technology centres. We want to find a solution that avoids the lockout, a solution that allows us to maintain the totality of the work places and, unfortunately, if it is not possible, that you keep the greatest number of these and, in this sense, both from the Department of Work and from the Department of Enterprise we will do everything we can to keep it that way. In contrast to what has been said, from Catalonia, the government governs and is very concerned about the situation. And from the government it will facilitate the interview of the workers and the workers to the company Prysmian Group to find a business solution for the maintenance of the places of work and for the maintenance of the R & D centers linked to the plant of Manlleu. It will be old to guarantee the competitiveness and diversity of the sector, it will continue to enhance and facilitate the search for investors so as to maintain productive activity, both from the Manlleu plant and from Montcada and Reixac. To emphasize the fact that the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge has maintained different meetings in relation to the closure of the General Cable Company. On October 21, Constable Chacon held a meeting with the mayors of the Reixac and Manlleu joints. Previously, on October 16th, there was also a meeting with the Prysmian Business Committee, with the presence of the Director General of Industry and the Deputy Director General of Industrial Investment. A meeting had also been held with representatives of the industrial federations of the Workers' Commissions and the UGT. They held two meetings on 26 and 27 September, and also on 14 October, with the group's CEO in Iberia and the group's head of occupation and industrial governance. At the second meeting, the company was represented by the Directorate-General for Institutional Relations, and the company responsible for the reindustrialisation project also participated. For what the Government expects to do in the long term, by means of the Directorate-General for Industry and Action, and from the understanding of the causes that have led to the risk situation, the usual protocol will apply in the management of industrial risk situations, assessing the impact on the value chain of customers and suppliers, and assessing the possibility of transforming errors into opportunities, contributing to the cessation of the produced activities to a third without limitation, and also contributing to the cessation of the produced activities to a third with limitation, with the same collaboration in the search for alternatives and the application of support mechanisms in the field of the department. We cannot help but recognize that, regrettably, in the course of 2019_has significantly increased the number of workers affected by the employment and extinction regulation dispatch. Growth in relation to 2018 is very important. There has also been some encouragement in the economy and to put the needle in an urgent way and review labour regulations. Yes, we have a problem: there is a need for a review and modification of labour regulations. It is true that there are job regulation dispatches on the table that are only explained by the fact that there have not been the labor reforms, the changes in the labor reforms that are going on, that some of us have promised and that we have called for since the first moment. From the government and from the parliamentary group we demand the government of the state – to see if they are now able to govern and complete what they promise – a change in the labour reform, of urgent measures for the reform of the labour market. This is the context of Law 3/2012 of 6 July 2012 and the result of the dialogue and agreement between the social dialogues, which allow us to ignore the negative effects that its application has had and that it has on working conditions, and that it allows, among others, the return to the prior administrative authority of the labor authority in the processes of collection. We must be able to have and be able to offer quality work and we must be able to guarantee speed and security in the transition of time to the return of activity, to articulate specific programs for the requalification and re-entry into the labour market, for example, of workers and workers who are affected by the subject of industrial plants. I would like to point out that the Government is more committed than ever to promoting employment through the employment policies that respond to three priorities: training, work orientation and attention to vulnerable communities and territorialization, which is a very important point. And, obviously, the government, as I said, is also committed to people who see their jobs threatened. Prysmian workers can count on our support, they can count on us. We repeat: we are ahead of the fact that it is essential to satisfy a social need of first order. And finally, and as the subject of today – and you apologize – is a subject of social justice and human dignity, if you will allow me, if I may specifically allow the workers and the workers here, I would like to express my personal solidarity, mainly with you, but also with people held unjustly, and with my fellow prisoners and fellow prisoners who are in exile because of a situation of justice and a lack of political dialogue. Yeah, there's no such thing as a political dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.19.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, we'll go to the vote. I understand that there is no separate motion for a vote on this motion for a resolution... So let's start the vote. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution on the closure of General Cable's plants in Manlleu and Montcada and Reixac was adopted by 127 votes in favour, against, and abstention, that is, unanimously. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the situation of the Catalan company]] [[310-00243/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The new item is questions with oral answer to the Government. The first question to the Government is put, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, by Mr José María Cano, and it is about the situation of the Catalan company. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.20.0	Mr. Counsellor, in recent weeks we have seen how street violence flooded the main cities of Catalonia, a violence that is ending with more than six hundred wounded and huge losses for those autonomous who have seen the flames at the doors of their shops or are suffering the roadblocks. That is why I ask you: how do you intend to compensate all these families and businesses?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.21.0	To answer the question, the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, when he is present, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.22.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Cano, listen, worry and take care of us. But, listen, do you want these protests to end? So are we. But what they should do because they can end is, first of all, recognize that these protests or the origin of these bad protests in a political conflict between Catalonia and Spain. And I think there's a new opportunity now to take what it is, according to many of the questions, Spain's main problem at this time, which is its main political problem. And to do so, then, we will have to..., or have, and we will have, among all the folds, a sister and a politician, the « sit and talk. And you, listen, leave it for a while, huh? If so, to continue feeling a problem and also part of the solution.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.24.0	Senyor Puignero, we already knew that his Government was going to wash its hands in front of the boycotts of the companies and families of Catalonia. Look, Mr Councillor, in democracy, public representatives do not go hand in hand with radicals to cut roads; they do not devote themselves to harming the self-employed or families. You know well that the economy needs stability and legal certainty, but it has already been shown that its government and security are like water and oil. We are in the midst of economic deceleration, which may be the prelude to a recession. And you should devote yourselves in body and soul to defending the rights of Catalan families and businesses. And they should do so instead of cutting roads preventing people from going to work, preventing them from taking children to school, preventing them from going to hospitals or to the doctor. They should do so instead of boycotting workers in the Catalan industry by blocking border crossings, rather than burning containers at the door of shops or throwing stones at security forces and bodies. Look, we're in the middle of the 21st century. It makes no sense to go by the hand of violent radicals, as you do. They will never be able to defend the well-being of Catalans by protecting street violence. And if you defend it, it's because you Catalan families care little about it. That's why we tell them that it's enough, that we know them, that we know that their broken dishes are always paid by Catalans, those who pay the salary to you and your friends. And I want you to know that you will pass on to history as you are, irresponsible and insolidary politicians who from the institutions broke out of coexistence and sank a prosperous region; a prosperous region thanks to all the Catalans who raised with their effort..., many of them coming from other parts of Spain; those, precisely, who want to take their passport away. That is why I tell you, Mr. Counsellor, to stop, to ask forgiveness and to compensate all Catalans who have harmed by allowing and encouraging chaos. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.25.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.26.0	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report. If you really talk, huh? , with the enterprises of this country, with the small and medium-sized enterprises – this is a country of pimes – do you know what they would say, the entrepreneurs? They would say that the main problems... that are obviously concerned with these types that are produced now, but above all they are concerned about the structural deficiencies of infrastructure, of finance, that is suffering from a year ago in this country. Listen, you worry that one day Prat airport is busy, but in change they don't worry that the reversal to Barajas is double or triple every year that to Prat airport. They don't care about that. They don't worry... They worry that it's tall one day the AVE to Girona, but they don't worry, in change, that it's not the Mediterranean Corridor. They worry about the size of the AP-7, and they don't worry about us being thirty years old – or I don't know how many years we're already wearing – with the connection between the A-2 and the AP-7 here at Papiol, or that the Vallirana variant has been thirty years in work. [[Greetings.]] Listen, this is a country that grows in shape... in the last five years, huh? He's grown up, though he's got a state against him. Imagine if we had a state in favor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about digital cop]] [[310-00244/12]] The next question is about the digital cop, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.28.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. Mr Puignero, I have seen you very vehemently in the previous question. I would like to ask you if you intend to assume any responsibility or, at least, give some explanation to the illegalities that we are experiencing and that involve the CTiTI and the Cesicat coup CNI. [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.29.0	To answer the question, the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.30.0	Congressman, this is the only blow we've seen these past few days is his electoral coup. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.31.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.32.0	We the blows we see is every time a summary is opened or a sentence is pronounced [[applause]] , where all their corruptions and shames flourish. Look, in the trial sentence, the one that you go out to reject and burn the streets but that you haven't even read, says clearly that since the CTiTI has been embezzled public money, you have embezzled public funds that were destined for social purposes, to build state structures and to prepare illegal referendums. And, if this is miserable, more miserable is what we have seen in the confessions of those CoRs accused of terrorism, who say that since the Cesicat could have been financed and even collaborated with people who might be planning terrorist attacks. And what do we find against this? A shameful silence from his government. Now we understand why when we said "his commands were cut off from our microphone: because we were unveiling his collaborations with these CDRs." But the most important thing here is that the Spanish Government does not act either. You have to close the Cesicat and you have to cut off the tap to all the waste you're devoting to making your digital coup. Mr Puigneró, in the face of this scandal, any democratic government would have fallen, and you alone endure your lack of dignity and your lack of shame, which already seems to endure everything. Look, thanks to the summary, and as much as key names are used, we already know who is behind the CDRs. Stop hiding – so brave that we have seen you – and give your face here; tell the Catalans, in this control session, whether with the money that you misrepresent you have financed these CoRs or not. It is not so difficult: either they deny the CoRs or assume their responsibility, they give up their salaries and they also leave their minutes. And remember that, although they are silent today, we will continue to pursue the truth, here in parliaments, but also before justice. Because opposing your government in Catalonia, Mr Puignero, is not a political option; I believe it is a moral obligation for all Catalans who defend freedom, coexistence and democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.33.0	To answer the word again the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.34.0	They're so predictable, Mr. Gragera... the truth is, I thought that after the coup, the election that they've been through, they'd change their speech... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.35.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.36.0	Listen, look, there's nothing deafer than the one who doesn't want to listen, because I've already told them in more than one session. Cesicate, the new cybersecurity agency – by the way, huh? , approved and ratified by the Constitutional Court – it is not Catalan CNI; see if they are clear. It's a security center to protect us in this new digital age. Or do they want them to remain vulnerable? They want this country, its digital infrastructures, to be instrumental in developing the new digital economy, so... this country has no tools to defend itself against cyber threats, to defend itself against cyber attacks, to come from one's coming, to come from more than one's coming from another? Is that what they want? Listen, I don't know the name of the Cesicat, of the new Cybersecurity Agency... you're the kings of spreading fake news. Tinguin, please, a little respect for this country. What you constantly say about the digital coup, I say digital innovation. This country... [[Funnel veils]] – yes, yes – has always been at the forefront, at the forefront of the industrial revolution; now I want to be at the forefront of the digital revolution. And he wants to have tools to make possible what is an environment of economic growth, and therefore he needs tools to be able to develop. Innovation is fundamental. In the background, do you know what he's doing to you? They say they're very liberal, but they change them so that we take over the citizenry, that we take it digitally; they don't believe in the freedom of people. Because they know that when this country empowers its people, it's an unstoppable country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.37.0	The next question is about male violence. [[Ask the Government about male violence]] [[310-00248/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Beatriz Silva's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.38.0	Yes, good morning, Counselor. Last April, I asked him what budget his Government intended to allocate, from its own resources, to combat gender-based violence and what increase it represented for a network of care that reaches only one_of_each_ten women who are estimated to be victims of sexist violence in Catalonia. You replied on that occasion that it was 32_million_euros, but it was not, because then your counselor acknowledged, in written reply, that these 32_million_euros included the funds transferred by the central government to deploy the State Pact against Gender Violence. Subsequently, you informed me that the own resources for 2019 would be EUR 19,3_million, but it remains unclear whether this figure represents an increase, whether we are increasing resources or still the same. I would like to remind you that, on the occasion of the general policy debate in 2018, this Parliament approved an increase of 35_per_cent of the specific departure to combat macho violence in 2019. As you approach on 25 November, I would also like to ask you what you have done, which is ultimately responsible for all the equality policies of the Government of Catalonia, in order to advance the deployment of Law 5/2008, on the eradication of macho violence, which has been on the waiting list for more than ten years.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.39.0	To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.40.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Congresswoman, so tell her that the premise for this year 2019 is of these 32_million euros, these 19 and escaig, 19 and mig approximately, that they come from sources propitious to the Government of Catalonia, and we have the rest, until 32_millions, that they are the proportional part of the Covenant of State against Macho Violence, previewed for 2018 and that they are executing this 2019. Then, if it seems to you, in the second answer, I'll get more into the detail of everything I was asking for.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.41.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.42.0	Yes; I thank you for your answer, but I would like to insist on the subject of the law, because we do not get anything out of having good laws that are not deployed, but also in resources and in actions, because it still does not tell me whether we are increasing resources or not. With regard to the proceedings, I would like to give you two examples. In October 2018, this Parliament approved that the Catalan Pact against Macho Violence had to be implemented in six months, that is, in April, and we still have no news. Making this pact a reality implies a political-social consensus, parliamentary groups should be called to participate, but we are in November and we have no news. Another example. The State Pact against Gender Violence stipulated that comprehensive forensic assessment units should be deployed in September, which are a key tool for judges to assess the risk of victims and dictate protective measures. Catalonia received in 2018 12,8_million_de_euros to deploy the State Package against Gender Violence and 13,7 in 2019. I would like you not to answer me that they have not been deployed because Catalonia already has a model of success, because it is the community that dictates less...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.43.0	Congresswoman, your time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.44.0	...removal orders, because the judges... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.45.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.46.0	Thank you, President. I would therefore like to say to her that for what she does to the National Pact against Male Violence, as you know and spoke to her, I know, with the new president of the Català de les Dones Institute, she is working to coordinate the different spokespersons here in Parliament to put into operation the work that we have to do folds, as we agreed. Also remember, on behalf of the Government, that at this time we are working on the pre-project of presuppositions 2020, which is what we need to provide with this new funding in order to increase the match for the fight against male violence and to guarantee and to work for the eradication of male violence. And, therefore, it will be in the mark of these assumptions of 2020 that we will see increased this game destined to fight against male violence. Remember, and I know that you have also spoken to the president of the Catalan Institute of Women..., we should also achieve – it is important, and here we have asked and we count on your help, as with the rest of the Members of Parliament here in Catalonia –, as it was the year 2018, that an extension of the money coming from the state pact of this year 2019 that has just just begun to arrive and that for questions, therefore, of calendars it is impossible to spend this year 2019. And, therefore, we would also like to work on this extension, so that this 2019 money can also run 2020, as we did in this previous exercise. Remind him, therefore, that in these last months, and with all these resources, we have started a significant number of projects. We have started projects such as increasing in half a million the Convention with local authorities for the provision of information and care services to women; the granting of assistance for access to the housing of women in a situation of male violence, or the elaboration of a protocol against sexual violence around the eye, or the reinforcement of the service to accompany the judgment of victims of male violence. In fact, we are aware that in terms of male violence all resources are insufficient, and we need to seek the maximum synergies and complicitys among all...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.47.0	Counselor, it's over...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.48.0	...to achieve the goal... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.49.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about actions in the field of digital culture]] [[310-00240/12]] The next question is about actions in the field of digital culture. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the deputy Ms Montserrat Macià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.50.0	Thank you, President. President, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies, good morning. Honourable Councillor Vilallonga, we are immersed in the digital revolution, which is global and which is cross-cutting in cultural policies. Together for Catalonia, we understand digital culture as an essential agent for cohesion and inclusive policies and, of course, as an engine of creation and economic dynamism. We believe that it must be the basis of public policies that guarantee the democratization of cultural rights. And you know it well: we see culture as a powerful tool of social transformation, which helps to advance towards a more just, freer, more democratic and more relaxed society. The ways of creating, consuming, enjoying culture have radically changed respect for what we have been accustomed to. Sectors such as visual arts, illustration, music or cinema have known a transformation that has gone through with patterns that seem immutable and have forged a full world of opportunities so far unthinkable. Digital culture is strategic according to the RIS3CAT strategy. A good part of the emerging businesses that invest in Catalonia have sectors linked to culture. Counselor, we know we have a government that believes in culture. According to the Agency for Competitiveness, between 2014 and 2018, 192 centres with an innovative technological profile chose to be located in Catalonia. These 192 projects involved the generation of 10,400 job openings and resulted in a total economic reversal of 1,800_million euros. We have digital talent and international attractiveness. In this sense, one of Boston Consulting Group's most recent studies places Barcelona as the fifth city in the world preferred by digital experts. Financial Times recognizes the Catalan government's strategy of attracting foreign investment on an international scale as Europe's best among regions with more than 4_million inhabitants. Will you advise, what actions are driven by the advice you are leading to boost digital culture in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.51.0	To answer the question, you have the word Culture Counsellor, Mrs. Maria Àngela Vilallonga. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.52.0	Many thanks, Mr President; many thanks, honourable Member, for your intervention, which you have put on the table in this Chamber all that the Department of Culture thinks about digital culture and culture in general. Culture is a palar de la nuestro Catalunya. Since the department we have made a clear bet to drive ambitious strategy in the digital field, in the technological field. The objective of the Digital Culture Platform 2020, which drives the department, is precisely to put Catalan cultural and creative enterprises at the forefront. From the government we support the digital culture sector with loans for digital entrepreneurs, with business incubators, university and high-level professional training, with industry and markets, which distinguish us as a territory open to innovation and with a global positioning. Almost a third of Catalonia's start-ups are cultural, and half of them are dedicated to the video games sector, for example; they are one hundred and forty and represent 30_percent of the total state, in front of communities such as Valencia, Madrid, Andalusia or the Basque Country. We are working to lead the gaming industry in southern Europe, in the Mediterranean, because we are aware that in the north there are already some cities that lead it: Amsterdam, Berlin, London. For the department, video games are a strategic sector; in just three years, the billing and the number of people employed has tripled. In later times, we have seen the results of this policy, because multinational video games companies have established offices in Barcelona, some from the United States, like Riot Games, or from Asia, like Bandai Namco. Moreover, companies like Ubisoft or King have offices in Catalonia, with a good number of workers. Just on November 1st we signed an agreement between the Department of Culture, Action and the Tokyo CIP, which is an entity created to develop a hub of tech companies worldwide, which places us in this global network that will allow us to enter into cultural sectors of the world...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.53.0	Counselor, time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.54.0	...related to technology... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.55.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question on the answer to the damage caused by the torrential plugs of 22 and 23 October 2019]] [[310-00241/12]] The next question is about the answer to the damage caused by the torrential plugs of 22 and 23 October 2019. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.56.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselrera, this past October, therefore, some unprecedented torrential plugs have caused a overflow of the Francoli river that has exceeded all the levels that are historically known and has devastated, with a very serious impact, the districts of the Garrigues and the Barberà Conca: they have affected the villages of the Vilasell, the Forest, the Albi, Vallclara, Vimbodí, the Espluga de Francoli, Vilaverd, and also Montblanc, which here affects me especially, to leave totally anorreraised what was the landscape of my childhood around the Vell Bridge. We have had to regret hard personal misfortunes, with two dead and three still missing people – from here we want to reiterate our condolences and give support to the families and friends of these people – but we also have serious material damage both in infrastructure and in private homes, and also, as we have seen, in businesses. This, obviously, has provoked the response, as always in this country, to the spontaneous solidarity of the citizenry. We all remember the images of the days before collecting the blisters, betraying them of the fang, therefore, to help replenish that company, and that more have materialized into initiatives at the national level to help materially... And I would like to congratulate, of course, on the immediate response they have received from the mayors and the assemblies, from the Mossos, from the Bombers, from Civil Protection, from the groups of forest defense and from the urban guards, who immediately set themselves at the side of the streets and began to take immediate action. It is for this reason, Counselor, that I want to ask you about the Government of the Generality's response to the grave damage caused by these torrential plugs of October 22 and 23. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.57.0	To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.58.0	Thank you, President. The honourable Member, in fact, made a couple of weeks ago we suffered from a host of catastrophic effects: torrential plugs and riuades that cause very important damage and that unfortunately, in his balance, we also count on different mortal victims. A catastrophe that coincided, you must remember, with the first day of the previous plenary and that... [[For technical reasons, a few words of the Council's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...and at its importance, both the president and I moved to the affected area just to finish the control session. From the Government – you asked – we are determined to give a quick response, an effective response and an effective response in all cases of natural disasters and emergencies, and from the Department of the Presidency we coordinate this response in the Government's yes, but also with the other administrations that also participate in the response. So, to the governing council immediately after that, on Tuesday, October 30th, a government agreement was adopted with a package of urgent measures to be able to deal with this damage; a package of measures that works from the involvement of the different departments of the Government of the Government of Catalonia and that is coordinated from the Department of the Presidency so as to facilitate the processing of all the people who have suffered this damage, therefore, if they are more simple and vague, let us say to ourselves, as a single window, right? They must have the certainty to have an interlocutor who treats their case in a global way and who is not left behind. So this is what we're working on at these times. And as an example, we can say that the measures taken have been, for example, from the Department of the Presidency, to finance emergency actions carried out for the same places. Or, for the Interior Department, evaluate the improvement measures of the civil protection network and firefighters in these areas. O, des de Cultura, repair the Malmès cultural heritage. O, from Territories and Sustainability, review the planned actions in infrastructure. O, from Agriculture and Ramaderia, expand the line of prestecs to branches and affected pages. Or, from the Economy, to improve the interests of these prestecs. Well, as you see, from the execution, compromise to give a coordinated response, a quick response, an effective and effective response; this is our compromise and these are the foundations of our intervention. And tell him that we have also requested the execution that takes into account these plugs that occur and these damage that occurred the planned aids that contemplates the Royal Decree... [[The president withdraws the microphone's use to the councilwoman. She keeps talking for a while.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.59.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you. [[He asked the Government about the Royal Decree of 14/2019, on which urgent measures were taken for reasons of public security in the field of digital administration, public procurement and telecommunications.]] [[310-00242/12]] The next question is about the Royal Decree of 14/2019, for which urgent measures are taken for reasons of public security in the field of digital administration, contracting of the public sector and telecommunications. Question put, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, by Mrs Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.60.0	Well, good morning. Together for Catalonia, I would like to put this question to the Councillor about this Royal Decree, which is already known as the Digital Decree. The Catalonian Parliament recently approved a motion on the Charter of Digital Rights and Responsibilities, which the Council is developing; a letter that must guarantee these new digital rights. This letter does not cover the support of citizens, nor of the PP, but neither does the Socialist Party of Catalonia. These last few days we've been listening to you very critical of this law. An academic expert, not a catalan, non-independenceist and former senior member of the PSOE, claimed that the law decree was a hyperventilated administered right, no standard instrument, no legislative technique, no integration into the European right. Or Simona Levi claimed that thanks to this law decree – approved with the night of the elections – from now on, in Spain, the regulation on the internet has nothing to envy to the censorship of the Xina. And it is that, deputies and deputies, this decree allows, directly, the intervention of the internet, by public order, without guarantees. Then they self-identify constitutionalists and you are the first to violate it. We want a country that guarantees digital rights. Yesterday we read with Google collected data, lots of medical data from millions of people, without permission. This is not our model, and Councilman Puignero started the project IdentiCAT precisely with this purpose, project that Pedro Sánchez has paralyzed. In the country where the Mobile World Congress is located it is possible to intervene internet without judicial authorization. In contrast, Catalonia versus Spain. We want to know, counselor, what will be the impact in the digital economy sector, in the use of blockchain technology, in the advent in the Catalan digital administration, in the guarantees of the digital rights of the citizens of Catalonia. You want to censor a reality that has no borders, a reality that, like the Digital Tsunami, is uncontrollable, because freedom does not have to endure, as we saw the U of October. For all this, Counselor Puignero, we ask you about the government's capture of this law, which will be the position of the council and, above all, what actions to safeguard the digital rights of the citizens of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.61.0	To answer the words of the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puignero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.62.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, look, this government has a digital country project, a project that wants to be avant-garde, that some of this Parliament, uh, get caught up in the principle of the legislature saying that this was Matrix, or that it was the video game of Puignero, or that we wanted to rule the country with the WhatsApp, uh, I heard that from some Members. Well, now it turns out, now it turns out they want to ban, uh, they want to ban by decree whatever they say doesn't exist. The first surprise we have with this law decree. Second place, escort, we are building a country with our emerging rights – we emerging rights. Just as we claim the right to breathe a clean air as a new right, we also have to claim the right to free internet access, to unlimited access to the internet, without interference of any kind, with equal opportunity, is visible where it is visible, with citizens not being first or second for what it does to this access to the internet, which guarantees cybersecurity, which guarantees a safe environment in this space in order to give you a stable, which can offer us services and new cultures in the field, for example, of electronic voting. This is what we're doing with this digital country project. And that's what you and what you want, in this case, the PSOE government, to fall. This decree is a decree that assembles a lot or is the digital version of the law biting, it assembles a lot. It is also a decree that could be a digital LOAPA, because of the re-centralisation that it is intended to make of many of the generality's competitions taking advantage of this new digital age. And we can't and we can't allow that. And that's why the Digital Bill of Rights, which is already getting ready and which will shield these rights of our citizens. And on this famous road, and I hope we find other political groups. I welcome, for example, that, in this case, the Mayor of Barcelona, Mrs Ada Colau, tweeted, precisely as proposed by this decree, which I would like to read, saying: « Pedro Sánchez approves internet intervention by public order. This is a serious attack on fundamental rights and freedoms. We can't afford it. We have to stop it on the Internet, in the courts and in the polls on November 10th. I invite you to continue on this line, I know that, more than that, a United Left communiqué came out today at the level of the State...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.63.0	Counselor, time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.64.0	I, therefore... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.65.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the covert co-opting of public schools by means of quotas for associations of mothers and pairs of pupils]] [[310-00249/12]] The next question is about the covert co-opting of public schools by means of quotas for associations of mothers and pairs of pupils, formulated by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature, and on his behalf, the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.66.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, different governments of the Generality, of different colors, have had to finish a practice of reducing the financing – or rather the assumptions of the public teaching – at the time that the financing increased – in this case yes – of the private school. That, encanny, is a 1,000-million plus for private school that didn't go to the public. You are not guaranteed or so alone that we can study the public in our barrels, in each of our barrels, or in most of the country's towns and cities. They are turning us into leaders, together with the Community of Madrid, in educational concert and school segregation. Last week, counselor, FAPAC in public a report where 96_% of public teaching centres finance, or self-finance themselves through quotas that break with gratuitousness. Obviously, for this reason, we are not responsible for either the parents, the seas or the AFAs that can manage this, but we are responsible for the infra-financing of the Catalan public school. Counselor, the first two questions: why has your department not done anything about it, the last year, to end these illegal quotas and who will be the actions that will last from now on more than meeting with FAPAC to explain this report.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.67.0	To answer, the word has the advisor of Education, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.68.0	Thank you, President. Yes, Mr. Deputy, you're right. Last week, coinciding with the electoral campaign, FAPAC published a report on the response of 1,200 centres, of the AMPAs of 1,200 centres on a telephone questionnaire. It is an interesting report that yesterday we were in the Department by post and that we will study and work with FAPAC in a meeting that we have convened on November 20th. And, for the other questions to which you refer, there is a substantial element, we need a presupposition urgently – urgently – to make some of these policies that you claimed and, for others, we care very, very, very much about those centers that do not have AMPA, that do not appear in the study and that are some of the most disadvantaged in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.69.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.70.0	Counselor, if they're concerned, they hide it very well, because of their practice in educational policy. I already told you I didn't want you to challenge us that it's meeting with FAPAC. Look, it's worrying that you have to be an entity like FAPAC that tells you what you already know is going through our centers. And what we're asking you is very simple questions and we'll try to answer it in another way. Mirin, on the basis of what legislation – which, in any case, would be contrary to Article 50.2 of the LEC – you allow or do not prevent – and we say, do not prevent – these illegal quotas must be taken over by the families at the Catalan public school. We also consider that there is a responsible person, that is the councillor and that is you, not what happens but what does not prevent it from happening. And, lastly, we ask you again – in another way, in a very humble way, in a very calm way – you – or you, concretely – now a year ago, in a newspaper of abst of the Spanish State, he said that he would act the following months – so he said in September 2018 – because it is not copper in illegal quotas. Let's ask him again, will you answer, please, what has he done in relation to these statements in what way they would act? And, if not, what will it do, expressly in law or in action, for the 2020-2021 course?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.72.0	Thank you, President. The Committee on the Follow-up to the Pact against School Segregation – which you do not voluntarily form part of – has worked on this question which you ask, has made a request to all educational centres to obtain information, to all – at three_ thousand, not only at a thousand_ two hundred–, the department has obliged the current policy to publish to the web page of each centre this quota regulation and we need to differentiate the quotas which the centres require, from the quotas of the MPAs, which are voluntary. In the quotas that require the centre, the inspection already has orders, from the information collected, to act; because, in no case, can the quotas that are made from the AMPAs be mandatory. We have to work on the Follow-up Committee of the Segregation Pact and on the Commission that we have to do with FAPAC that, like you, does not want to participate in the Segregation Pact but that, in the background, we all have the same purpose, which is equity at school.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.73.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the response to the victims of male violence]] [[310-00247/12]] The next question is about the victimous women of male violence and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.74.0	Yes, counselor. One of the keys to the repair of male violence victims is to be able to access a decent, autonomous and stable habitat. What, in this sense, is the answer given by his Government to victims of male violence who need habitation? How many women do we find we need to live in and how long do they have to wait?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.75.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question you have the word the Presidency Counsellor, Mrs Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.76.0	Thank you, President. MP, therefore, look, certainly one of the main problems of the struggle against male violence is precisely the repair of the women who have suffered this male violence, that they are also patenting and also their daughters and their children and, therefore, the government's capture in this sense is to aim to speed up as much as possible access to the habitat and to facilitate, precisely, help them so that they can access an immediate habitat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.77.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.78.0	Well, he hasn't told us how many or how long they're waiting. Do you know how many bridge and support floors there were for victims of male violence in 2010? Eleven. Do you know how many, 2018? Eleven. And 2019 looks like the same. Each pes gives answer... – I forgive –, in total this gives answer to forty-two family units. Do you really think it's enough, that what his government does is enough? That with the help of the victims who have more to do a lot of work to be able to access it is the answer? There are women who must be more than four months waiting for a habitation, a housing solution. Four months in a male-violation situation. Four months with creatures without knowing where they will live and without being able to escape from the situation in which they are living, because, moreover, you must also know that many municipalities do not have the resources or the ability to give answers, and these women end up in pensions or shared floors. His government, in September, announced that it was carrying out a call for management of two floors plus and four SIES. In these lifts, there's still no such thing as that. At the risk of losing the resources of the state pact, because, more than that, they're in charge of the state pact and we're in November and they didn't run and the entities are asking us what's going on with these resources that they offered them. In fact, you – I know it's hard to say it there, but it's true – have good speeches – yesterday we heard the councillor for Social Welfare and Work – but they have few actions, they have very few actions, they're not doing enough. In fact, yesterday they voted against a sham for masculinist rapes, and, systematically, they failed to complete the motions of this Parliament that asked for more resources, as it claimed to have eight SIES at the end of the year 2019, eight SIES more than there was already. We believe that your government does not do enough, it does little to guarantee this repair, to guarantee these habitats, that it does not give an answer to the victims of male violence who suffer double and triple discrimination, because they are immigrants, because they come from the treaty, because they do not have economic resources, because they do not have a family network. He will advise, we ask him to be brave and also, when he is talking about assumptions with the Department of Economy, ask for more resources to deal with victims of male violence, because, moreover, it is very difficult to know how much the government is spending and in which departments it is spending.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.79.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.80.0	No victim has to be... [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.81.0	Thank you. To answer the word again you have the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.82.0	Well, honourable Member. Obviously the repair is a set of actions and not just one, and as the government worries and worries us very much this ability to give response to women victims of male violence. And, in fact, this is why the second comprehensive intervention program approved by the Government reinforces this comprehensive attention and recovery network for women in a situation of male violence, to the band to develop different actions needed in the field as well, such as training or prevention. To announce that today itself comes the call of four SIES, and therefore, we are doing the work, is communicating. And now the councilman just told me that today is the very day of this call. Miri, I'm sure that of the strategic goals approved in the program, three special fans are in repair. The purpose of deploying and expanding the comprehensive care and recovery network for women who suffer or have suffered male violence or for their dependent children. The aim is to improve the attention of women at the time of the complaints and at the length of the entire judicial process. The objective of optimizing the coordination mechanisms of the comprehensive service network of male violence. And if we're talking about some more concrete action, I can tell you the increase in grants to the social inclusion housing network, which is through this increase in the grant. And we can't buy, because you know that the State Pact money doesn't allow us to buy assets, so we have to do it through aid and subsidies. The escort service to the victim in his court. Also an important lawsuit. The creation of an emergency and permanent care device. Protocols against sexual rape in the vicinity of the sea. Finally, as you know, a couple of weeks ago we also successfully completed the first International Congress for the Eradication of Masclist Violence. A convention that applied academics and that applied entities, resulting in this way to work folds in order to smooth out an approach to male violence from a more global perspective. This is what we're working on and involving all actors to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.83.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.84.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.85.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about its strategy in relation to labour reforms and the judgements of the Constitutional Court that discriminate against malevolent workers]] [[310-00245/12]] The next question is about its strategy in relation to labour reforms and the judgements of the Constitutional Court that discriminate against malevolent workers. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr José Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.86.0	Thank you, President. We know, we met this week a ruling from the Constitutional Court which, surprisingly, does not speak of Catalan laws, does not suspect any law and does not prevent parliamentary debates. And I see that it wasn't about Catalans and he was talking about fundamental rights, like the right to work or the right to humanely face malalities without losing work, we thought that maybe the Constitutional Court would do a more open and progressive reading. But we have found that no, that the Constitutional Court does not only prevent debates here in this Parliament, but that it does very regressive readings of labour laws. In fact, the Constitutional Court has endorsed an article of the Workers' Statute which says that if you have been ill for many days, or if you have been ill for two months, you can be taken away from work. This situation encourages the helplessness of workers and workers, who see themselves in a dilemma: either they have to go to work ill, or well, even if they have the low recognizable medicine, they can lose their job. This situation is the result of the regressive labour reforms of 2010 and 2012. Reforms the PSOE had announced that it would repeal them, and it did not, nor does it seem that it should. The question, honourable counselor, is, even though this is a situation that depends on state laws and a court that has decided to make a reading more and more regressive of political and social rights, such as the Government of the Generality, it wants to face this situation of defencelessness in which we find our workers in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, there is the words of the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.88.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP, you've made it clear. On October 16th, we met this feeling, a feeling that stands in contradiction to different phonenal rights: the right to salvation with the right to work; that stands in contradiction to people who suffer chronic diseases; that stays and that gives tools of repression – we have known some cases of union repression, taking advantage of this tool. And what it shows is that there has been inaction, there has been a lack of willingness at the time of regulating the labor market around the two labor reforms that pre-caritzen: that of 2010, led by Mr. Zapatero; that of 2012, led by Mr. Rajoy. There's been inaction. I live it day by day. We have had, again to God, a debate of all parliamentary groups with unanimity, which is very good news, about the situation of Prysmian plants in Manila and Montcada. But if there was an element that is vertebrator of all interventions, it was the frustration point before a normal_mark that what it does is that shutting down businesses and taking people out is free to the Spanish State. And, unfortunately, also in Catalonia. And that's it. From here on out, who's our strategy? We will continue to demand the necessary changes in the subject matter of the standard labour market. And we'll take advantage of this legislature to put it all together, and then take advantage of the skills we have. Because, just as we have to criticize what is not done, we have to be aware of what skills we have. And in this area, there are two things that are closed: the work of the inspection; the inspection has done a great deal of work, has increased its inspectorship, has made more than nine thousand contracts convert from temporary to indefinite, has raised more than thirty thousand labor relations and has raised, between social security quotas and sanctions, 130 million euros in three quarters. And the other, the concertation. The ability to dialogue with economic and social agents, which is why we have an impact on collective bargaining and an impact on labour law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.89.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about its strategy for the enforced disappearance of minors]] [[310-00246/12]] The next question is about the strategy for enforced disappearance of minors, and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Raquel Sans. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.90.0	Thank you very much, President. She will advise, "don't cry, that you're going to be happy is the fragment of a typical letter, which was delivered to children who had been given into adoption if they were to ask for their mother. It was a very cruel text, in which the mother said that she abandoned the creature because she did not appreciate it. A mother tells her son that she abandons her because she doesn't esteem her. But it wasn't true. Hundreds of thousands of children were stolen from the Spanish State between 1938 and 1996. Don't cry that you're going to be happy too is the title of Tarragonan anthropologist Neus Roig's book, where all these cases are detailed, and it's worth reading. Let's settle down a little bit. These disappearances in the Spanish State are produced in three phases. The first, from the year 38, as a system of political repression of republican press, with techniques imported from Nazism. Later, the baby stealer is used as a tool for winning and controlling women who do not complete the canons established for Catholic Church. They take babies, especially single women, the most vulnerable women. This hard phase between 1952 and 1977, when these robberies are transformed into a pure bargain. Thieves that extend until 1996, when the Adoption Law is reformed and it is almost impossible to steal more babies. I would like to point out, and I think we need to point out, that we are not talking about winged cases. The National Court speaks of thirty thousand cases of disappearances. Some organizations xifren in three-cents_thousand– three-cents_thousand. And, despite these figures, despite the violation of human rights, it wasn't until last year when the first trial for a case of stolen children took place in the Spanish State. Gynecologist Eduardo Vela was found guilty, but he came out free because he had prescribed the crime. Yes, the Spanish penal code prescribes these crimes. They do not do so, in exchange, for the international law, where they are considered crimes against humanity and, therefore, do not prescribe until the victim has been restored to his identity. In addition to a resolution by this Parliament this year, the Government has approved an agreement to establish an interdepartmental and comprehensive strategy before the forced disappearance of minors. I'd like to get a little more concrete, if you please, on the detail of this agreement and, above all, what is the end of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, you have the word to the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.92.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, deputies, deputies. Mrs Sans, your question is very pertinent. In Catalonia there are hundreds of complaints filed for which he has named himself, as you described very well, the robbers of babies, who held his home during the Franco dictatorship and who was perpetuated in time during the Transition and well entered the 1990s. At this point, there is no victim with an effective solution. I mean, they didn't get an answer. And a fundamental right is being violated, which is the right to the biological truth, the right to know identity. Therefore, seas, couples, girls and children have no answer. And this situation, in the Government of Catalonia, concerns them and the occupation – very well, as you pointed out – also fruit of a resolution of this Parliament, and, therefore, there is an interdepartmental and integral strategy, which is led by the Department of Justice, but in which both the Interior Council and the Health Council participate. And with what goals? So looking for truth, restoring, repairing, repairing victims, identifying those responsible, putting them names and surnames, obviously, so that there is legal responsibility and, obviously, finding a search and investigation methodology. And who are the possible actions? You pointed that out very well, a trial was completed in which the sentence existed, but as the offence was prescribed... this was the answer of justice. So no, the answer to justice must be another. They're crimes of human injury. We need to see whether this is translateable or not in the current legislation, in the current Criminal Code. But also, in this case, in the universal justice, which I hope can, in short, be modified and, therefore, the Spanish jurisdiction can bring these judgments to justice, and therefore it can take a long time to come. Then, the possibility of quantifying. How many people are we talking about? How many stolen babies are we talking about? How many victims are there? And therefore, also the possibility to identify them through DNA, etc. And therefore, to have a DNA database to be able, therefore, to carry out the fundamental right to the biological truth. And, of course, the repair of victims. The necessary reparation of victims, which goes through a judicial response... – in this case legal, not judicial – legal, psychological, economic, etcetera...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.93.0	Counselor has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.94.0	...and that, in six months.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.95.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the President of the Generality about yesterday's plenary session, the absence in this session of the members of the Government and the differences that this evidence between the members who integrate it]] [[317-00141/12]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.96.0	Thank you, President. Mr Torra, how did you feel that the President of Parliament had yesterday moved the vote on self-determination without warning you and without you being present? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.97.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.98.0	Good morning. Mr. Congressman, we have already expressed in a letter that we did not understand why we were not informed of this time change. Therefore, logically, we continued to hold the meeting of the Executive Board. And today we're here, because..., as called in, so today we're here. Therefore, they do ask for respect, both for Parliament and for the Executive Board.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.99.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.100.0	All due respect, Mr. Torra. But, well, it's obvious he didn't feel very well. It wasn't so hard for him to recognize it and say it didn't feel right. And that, indeed, because what the President of Parliament did felt bad for her, as Mrs Budó said in the letter. I have already expressed my solidarity to you in your time, because, although there are only four of us, you are more alone than I am. And I remember perfectly well his investiture. I listened to him very carefully – I always listen to him very carefully, I must be the only one – that day he said, in his Pla de Govern..., he based it on three fundamental axes, which were unnegotiable and which were the basis on which it would be based, worth redundancy, this legislature: Consell de la República effective, as effective power, not symbolic; investiture and return of Carles Puigdemont; immediate implementation of the Law of Transition. It's been a gross failure. None of the three elements have been able to move forward, but it is that, on top of it, it has neither a budget nor a strong parliamentary majority to launch its government action. Has he realized that his government partners have systematically boycotted every initiative he has put forward? Have you realized that at the decisive hour you have always been thrown away? Have you considered that you are being long and are now in trouble because you probably already have a tripartite arrangement with Mr Miquel Iceta? I think it's obvious that you've been left alone. Don't prolong the agony any longer. And I think it's essential that you put the ballot boxes in. But to put the ballot boxes, the legal ones, the real ones, the ones of the autonomic elections. It is absolutely essential because this legislature no longer makes sense. You know it, and I know it. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.101.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.102.0	Yeah, we could've worked a little harder, huh? Mr. Fernández, today, this intervention. In any case, listen to me, you'll see here today and say rotund failure. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, I, speaking of failures, allow 'congratulate him for the trembling success of his formation in Catalonia, therefore, in the past elections. [[Greetings.]] He's got one to two deputies! And there's no representation of Lleida's demarcations, Girona and Tarragona. Zero deputies there. Actually, that's quite a round break. Your jokes are out of play today. Do you know why they're out of play? Because these members of the Bureau and these members of the Bureau are already being investigated by the State Prosecutor's Office – they are being investigated by the State Prosecutor's Office – [[applause]] , who gave orders to the prosecutor's office. And it's absolutely out of the question. And they have all my support, today, all the company of the Bureau, the president, that they have brought forward, therefore, this initiative. It is incredible – it is incredible – that in this Parliament it is not possible to vote on the right to self-determination in Catalonia. It's unbelievable. And you have to plant it. Listen, this has always been voted in this Parliament, many years ago we voted that Catalonia recognizes itself as the right to self-determination. And, therefore, it seems to me that these pranks are simply out of play today. And about the sensitivities of the legislature, so you have more than ever. And more than ever, it respects the election results. Listen, this diumenge is proof that the independence bloc is growing, that the unionist bloc is falling, that we have a project in Catalonia and that the one that doesn't have a project in Spain. Therefore, we are waiting for the Spanish proposal, to see if above, for Catalonia, and we have twenty-three independent deputies at the Congress who will defend the exercise of the right to self-determination in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.103.0	The next question is about the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about his position regarding the government pact announced by the PSOE and the United Nations.]] [[317-00146/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom, the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.104.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, yesterday he announced an agreement for a progressive government in the State between the Socialist Party, United Podemos and Comú Podemos, and we would like to know the position of the Government of the Generalitat before this new scene that takes place.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.105.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.106.0	Yeah, good morning. Actually, we know, of this agreement, we know the points... those two full ones, so, yesterday they gave themselves to know. We were particularly interested in reading the new point, which is about Catalonia, in which it is mentioned that it seems that it is said that Catalonia has a problem of coexistence, in which it wants a dialogue in Catalonia and not with Catalonia, and therefore that music started not to please us. I hope that, from all angles, now you, therefore, can explain to me exactly, this new point, if you reflect everything that you, in your electoral program, defend for Catalonia, which I hope now has the opportunity to defend it between this coalition government. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.107.0	To ask the honourable Member a new word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.108.0	President, this is a control session for the President, not the opposition. Therefore, I don't have to explain the new point to you; you will already see the events. Look, at a time of exceptionality, like we're flushing, and also with a new phase of the crisis that's bringing the head, now the only way there is the dialog and it's the new alliances. I don't think it's time for events, improvisations, or unilateral lives like you announced a few weeks ago. Because it's already proven to be a frac and because it left Catalonia behind. I don't think it's a coincidence that a woman who has recognized relatively little in the public record that the late 2017, the independentist elite, lacked empathy with the other side of the country that is not independentist. And I'm referring to Carme Forcadell, a brave woman, with whom I can have political disagreements but who is clearly putting the country ahead of the parties. And, in short, that's what we ask them to do: that they own the country in front of the parties. Look, we are working to find a political solution to the conflict between Catalonia and the State, and also to bring forward social policies in favour of the majority and working classes. Because whether we like it or not, Catalonia will be conditioned and affects everything that happens in the State. And now you have to decide. They must decide whether they want to be part of this new stage or whether they want to continue in the permanent blockage. They have to decide whether they want to follow the policy of the backpack and tweet or whether they want to move's. And only two points. The first: the preferred option, according to all the questions from Catalonia, for a government in the State is that of a coalition between the Socialist Party, United We Can and In Comú We can why, vague or not, I opened scenes to start unlocking. And the second: just think, for a second, what is the alternative; the alternative is either electoral repetition or a great coalition between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. And I don't know what you think is better for Catalonia, but I, seeing the first reactions of IBEX, the employer, the right, the electricity, the extreme right and certain media groups, have made it clear that it is the best for Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.109.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.110.0	Yeah. Well, I also thought this was a control session for the government and the president of the government. I do not know what, exactly, you have to see your question, therefore, with this control to the President of the Government. But well, I want to think about the positive. I want to think that this agreement of yours with the PSOE, so, for example, it will address the law bite, it will address labour reform, it will address the reform of loguers, of course, and that, therefore, this new stage will end with repression. You will be able, in the Council of Ministers, to talk about the freedom of political prisoners, as you have spoken here, with complete peace, and I suppose you will, and you will defend it in the Council of Ministers; to tell your governing partners in the Council of Spain, too, that Catalonia is a nation and that you have the right to decide, which you carried in your electoral programme; that you will have to finish the clavegars, that the justice of politics has ended..., all that you have defended, all that we have also defended, these 80_percent consensuses that you have in Catalonia, right? , to consider that the monarchy is no longer a proper institution – you have voted against the former monarchy –; that, therefore, the right to decide Catalonia, the right to vote, we must decide among all Catalans, and that politics cannot be judicialized. The hope we have of this agreement is that you, all of this, defend it; defend it and fight it, just as you, your constituents, have promised them. I insist that what I would have liked to have listened to and read – I suppose we would find it more forward and continue to develop it – is what the proposal for this government pact for Catalonia is, what it is. Because we're wearing a year and a half and we don't know so far about the Spanish governments. I hope that now, with you and the government, we have a final answer to what proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.111.0	President, time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.112.0	...has Spanish for Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.113.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the costs of the border blockade with France]] [[317-00143/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.114.0	Mr. President. Very honourable President, what benefits for the country do you think are derived from the attempt to block access to France for Jonquera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.115.0	To answer you have the word President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.116.0	Yes, Mr. Deputy. So I should ask the organizers of this concentration, of this demonstration, of this protest. But I want to remind you that in this country it guarantees security, it guarantees the free movement of people and goods, but it also guarantees the right to protest. The right to protest has been guaranteed when taxi drivers collapsing the Great Way; the right to protest has been guaranteed to air traffic controllers or airport security personnel when they have made the waves they considered convenient, and we guarantee the right to protest also at these times. Because... I didn't look at the saying, but I looked at the moon. What's the problem? There are still the same problems in Catalonia: the political conflict. It's the political conflict, Mr. Iceta, you know perfectly well. Perhaps now, with this new agreement with its new partners, that they claim the freedom of political prisoners, that they want Catalonia to be made clear that Catalonia is a nation and that they want the right to Catalonia, so you freely decide its future, perhaps – perhaps – here, now, there will be a change in the Socialist Party. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.117.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.118.0	President, I am convinced that you would like us to ask any less of you. Tell him, of all ways, that everything he asks you to do United We can only be possible if this government is finally constituted. So, I don't think they're going to block it. Now, I want to refer to my question. I said to him, and I say to him with all force, that actions such as blocking or trying to block the border are harmful to the country, harmful to the economy, damaging our external image and violating the right to mobility of thousands of people. They have an estimated economic cost of 15_million euros a day. And I must remind you, because it seems that you do not remember it, that one of your functions as president is to work for the progress of the country and for the defense of our national interests. You have to defend our trade, our tourism, the right to mobility. From this point of view, it contrasts his attitude with that of the Basque Government, that in knowing the intention to block the border of Irun he stated with force, in the words of his spokesman, Josu Erkoreka, that he wanted to respect freedom for the border crossing and that the Basque Government is not in favour of actions that block this right to freedom of movement and economic trafficking. Why don't you and the government that presides? President, there are actions that, even though they say they defend the country, harm our collective progress. And the question is whether his declared sympathy for the most radical sectors prevents him from defending the general interest. You don't watch your mouth before things that hurt our coexistence, our economic progress and the image of our country. Today the CoR, to which you have given so much support, make it clear in an official statement: "Independence or barbarism. President Torra, as President of the Generality, you have the obligation to put forward the defense of Catalonia's interest. And it must also be done when political and social sectors with which we sympathize objectively harm our country. You don't preside over the Catalan National Assembly, you're the President of the Generality, and if you don't have the ability to do so, we'll replace you again to resign and call elections. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.119.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.120.0	Yeah. Miri, I give him the right: my due, my obligation, my responsibility as President of the Generality is this, it is to defend the interests of Catalonia from everything – the interests of Catalonia from everything. So, criticizing the fiscal deficit, that's what we all have to do for the world. What did these elections cost? How many million have these elections cost? Why don't you criticize him? [[Greetings.]] Who are the assumptions rep Catalunya every year? Doesn't that concern you? [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm worried, because it's my duty...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.121.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.122.0	... worry about the general assumptions of the State, which are always lower than our total percentage of population and are still performed in very, very, very worse terms. I'm worried about the investments in Catalonia, of course, the investments in infrastructure that the State would have to make. Where is the Mediterranean Corridor – where is the Mediterranean Corridor? I am concerned that you make proposals from the Constitutional Court every two by three. The reputation that is at stake is Spain's reputation – it's Spain's reputation. [[Greetings.]] This is the reputation, after all the attacks on the independenceists, after all this policy of judicialization. They really have an opportunity: to end all this, to make a proposal for Catalonia at a time and to allow us to defend our own, which is the right to self-determination in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.123.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generality about the results of the general elections]] [[317-00145/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.124.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies. More 1,642,000 independent votes at the Congress – 1,642,000 votes. Independence has struck its record in percentages in a few Spanish elections and has for the first time, in votes, surpassed unionism in a state contest. We are more plural than ever, in the most difficult context and in the toughest choices for independence. We have shown in the ballot boxes, once again, that we persist and never surrender, and that we will have to prove it in these ballot boxes as often as we need, that we are strong, that we follow with the convictions always intact and that we gather every time more people, more seen and stronger, to defend ourselves from repression, to defend all of us. Because no, we certainly don't have time to change. Yesterday we saw a hug that marks a lot of things. We trusted in a left-wing agreement that arrived before the summer, but they preferred to prioritize the calculator, refer to the mid-sized demoscopia, come to chance and give the extreme right a second chance. They have embraced an agreement that by testosterone, selfishness and vanity they have taken refuge a few months ago; and now they have less strength and fewer escons, and we have more. Not to the more agile and retrograde PSO, to a PSC that is not distinguished from the PP during the campaign and which supports 155. [[Widow's remorse.]] We can't assimilate the PSOE's repressed mark. We don't validate or give up their lies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.125.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.126.0	Catalonia's problem is not one of coexistence, even though I fixed her investment agreement. A vice-presidency isn't worth much. Socialist arrogance against independence, if not, has contributed to the growth of the extreme right; to fascism, to grow more than ever. And our answer is always: to grow, to grow, to grow and to grow, and to do so at the polls, to win always at the polls and to do so in defense of self-determination, of the rights, of the freedoms of everyone, of the political and democratic fate, of the peaceful and always non-violent mobilized streets. And our message is very clear: we will win them until we force them to take them back and say loud and clear that without sit and talk, our answer is no. And force them to sue and negotiate to donate a political fate to the country, which passes through amnesty and ballot boxes. Let's keep going, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.127.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.128.0	...and ask him to follow... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.129.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.130.0	Thank you. Mr. Congressman... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, I've heard the end and I'll answer it. In the first place, satisfaction because they celebrated the elections with total normality. During the previous days, there was a series of rumors that if the collèges were attacked, that if I don't know what, huh? , all these things that happen to us, all these rumors that arrive absolutely "uninterested, between comets, no? When it turned out that we voted with total peace, and so once more it was shown that the favourite playing ground of the Catalans are the ballot boxes, there we go, there we vote and more there every time the independenceists have had better and better results. Also to celebrate that there was one of the participations, too, higher, even though not higher, even though we have dropped in points, but one of the higher, in some general elections. And we certainly analyze, we analyze the results. From the start, 42_percent of independence votes, twenty-three independence deputies, twenty-three deputies who send Catalonia to defend their right to exercise self-determination. I have to hear that thirty Members who are in favour of a referendum; Mr. Jaume Asens has always defended that the event should be a referendum for Catalonia, and therefore I understand that we have thirty Members in Congress, so that they will also defend this option as the most valid option for Catalonia's future policy. And it seems clear, therefore, that Catalonia has won the rights, freedoms and democracy. What happened to the Spanish State? So, in the Spanish State, what do we have? Let them lower their lefts and push the fascism. And it turns out – and turns out – that there is a problem of coexistence is in Catalonia. No, no; what I ask of Mr. Pedro Sánchez is that I opened a dialog table between the Spanish parties to deal with the difficult problem of the fascism they have in Spain. [[Greetings.]] It is urgent that we face the difficult problem in Spain, of coexistence, with fascism; fascism that has unfortunately been laundered with the pacts of the right, the ultra-right and the ultra-right, because, I don't know, each one of them who takes the qualification he wants, because it is already impossible to know who, but the pacts in the communities, in the mayors, etc., of all these parties have helped to launder fascism. And that's the hardest problem the Spanish State has right now: Spanish fascism. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.131.0	The next question... [[Question to the President of the Generality about the prosecution's actions and the situation of violation of rights and freedoms]] [[317-00144/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.132.0	Thank you, President. Many honourable President, Mr. Pedro Sánchez still has to answer why he has called these elections; some elections that have cost a lot of money to everyone, where independence grows, votes, percentages and deputies. For they have served these choices is to expose Mr. Pedro Sánchez. Mr. Pedro Sánchez who has made a 155 digital campaign, a digital law decree that goes against rights and freedoms; a lord..., a Spanish state that has manifested the gathering in Turkey during this electoral campaign. I, moreover, a Mr. Pedro Sánchez who took a public commitment, which is: "I will bring Puigdemont back to Spain. And when you ask how you will bring Puigdemont back to Spain, it's peta tot l'éstat de Dret, it's peta tota the separation of powers and remembers who rules in the prosecution, who rules in the prosecution. The prosecution, of course, investigating the president of the Catalan National Assembly, also these last days; the prosecution investigating Mr. Counsellor Buch for the safety of President Puigdemont ; the prosecution investigating the president and the vice president and the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia to allow debates here in the Parliament of Catalonia ; the prosecution investigating Poland, of TV3, and it is passing to make a gag ; the prosecution investigating a music group, such as the Manel group, for a song ; the prosecution asking for twenty-five years of imprisonment for our political prisoners. This is the Spanish State we have, a Spanish State in which they see rights and freedoms violated. And sometimes we see a Europe..., as the Advocate General of the European Union recalls that yes, the MEPs have immunity, that Mr Junqueras, that President Puigdemont, that in Toni Comín should be insured in the European Parliament defend the more than 2 million Catalans and Catalans who voted for them in the European elections, which does not happen. And a Spanish state that puts rights and freedoms at risk. And in the judicial issues it was clearly seen, where the People's Party already remembered that it had reliable prosecutors and had a prosecutor who "finished it, and now we see that the Socialist Party, its president, remembers that "who is in charge of the prosecution, this very prosecutor's office that brings you to a court, diluns, to defend freedom of expression on a banner that places "freedom of political prisoners. What's his stand before this trial before this situation of violation of rights and freedoms?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.133.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the paragraph.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.134.0	Yes, thank you, Congressman. We already know that the Spanish State has been trying to win the courts for a long time now that it doesn't win in politics. And, I insist, the first republican institution is the popular will; the popular will must be respected for everything, and it cannot be that it is continuing to judicialize politics. We've had some good news this week, you certainly noticed. The position of the advocate of the European Union on the acquisition of the Euro MP condition of Vice-President Oriol Junqueras seems to me to be excellent news; it is news which, moreover, must naturally also condition the situation of President Puigdemont and Councillor Comín, and, therefore, in the work that we are asking for, that justice is applied, right? Clearly, « Spanish justice has already become an oximoron, but « European justice has felt, that's where we can win the game and that's where we go. Certainly, you're referring to the judgment that I'm going to have for a while. The truth is that disqualifying a president, therefore, democratically chosen in this chamber, for an irregular instruction of an election board on a banner is probably one of the most ridiculous and disproportionate actions that have taken place in the persecution that we can already qualify as "delirant to independence." I trust that the High Court of Justice will prevail – I have to trust, it is my obligation, I have to trust it – the defense of rights and freedoms by everything, because there is no small cause in the defense of rights and freedoms; we are seeing it all these days, there is no small cause. Freedom and rights are won by me, centimeter by centimeter, and if we give in to any of these actions in which they want us to give in, we won't win. Freedom is a conquest and it is a conquest of all folds; therefore, I will defend until the last consequences the rights and freedoms of everyone– of everyone– because, if you do not do so, I could not be president of this country. And the question is another time – I did it in Madrid and I return to repeat it – how much democracy is it able to assume the Spanish State? Are we in the 21st century, in the year 2019, about to enter 2020, as we have come to this situation for a democratic question and respect for people's rights and freedoms? The State has to ask. Is there a possibility now, therefore, that the State actually planted it? Let's see. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.135.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about a possible self-incrimination in court for disobedience]] [[317-00142/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.136.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Torra, next week you are called to sit on the bench of the defendants for disobedience. Do you plan to plead guilty?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.137.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.138.0	Mrs. Congresswoman, are you the prosecutor? It's a question, let's just say, so... [[Greetings.]] He knows very well what my statements were, and he knows very well what my position will be that day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.139.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.140.0	Yes, thank you. Mr Torra, it's been days since coming here to this control session is totally inoperative, basically because you don't answer absolutely anything you're being asked. It is also rather curious how your colleagues are demanding that we address you as ‘the most honorable president, but for that you should exercise as such, and, to the shame of many, you do not do so. Not only because you don't answer the questions here, but you've been grabbing the newspaper covers for days, and, look, you know why? Not, for example, because I have reduced waiting lists, not; nor because I have approved budgets or because, I do not know, I have lowered taxes, I have reduced the number of barracks, no. You know, you guys, why are you covert? Look, you're being ported for applauding terrorist suspects; you're being ported for wanting to throw out the Catalan Civil Guard; for giving instructions to besiege Parliament; you're ported for thanking the hooded of your riots, for going to cut roads with the official car. That's very proper, isn't it? , of a very honorable President of the Generalitat, Mr Torra. Do you know how much yesterday's joke from your friends cost us cutting off the Jonquera? EUR 15 million. In addition, you also have the dubious honor of being pointed out as one of the leaders of the radical commands that are sowing chaos. And in case all this wasn't enough, it turns out that next week the Catalans are going to experience the shame of being news because you don't respect the Catalans, because you use public buildings as if it were the advertising panel of separatism. And I ask you again: Mr. Torra, what is going to happen next week before the judge? What's the news going to be? , that of a president of the Generalitat boasting before the judge and the Catalans of his disobedience? Look, I'm telling you from here that I wish the news was another, that of a president who recognizes his mistakes, that of a president who asks for forgiveness, that of a president who instead of encouraging violence condemns it. Because, look, the most serious of all this is not the covers you generate, the most serious of all this is the damage you are doing with your acts in Catalonia; acts that are already on their own are all very serious, but imagine if we put them together. That's the legacy you're leaving in Catalonia, Mr. Torra, a more impoverished Catalonia, a more divided Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.141.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.142.0	...a broken Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.143.0	...the time has run out...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.144.0	You're left with the honorable thing to do. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.145.0	To answer, again the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.146.0	Well, it didn't end very well, did it? Looks like it. It didn't end very well, this diumenge. And no, I can't say we didn't warn them. He can't say we haven't told him from here. Anyway, escort'm, losing 900,000 votes from the 21st of December elections, 900,000 votes, escort'm, is that you also have to recognize that one has to make a lot of effort to lose 900,000 votes! I mean, you have to go with a lot of winnings to lose 900,000 votes. [[Widow's remorse.]] I mean, really, let's, so, congratulate them. Do you know what these two minutes and a half of defamation have cost you, so you always come here in these control sessions? They just cost 36,000 votes. 'Cause we've got chicks. Miri, at twenty-five control sessions, losing 900,000 votes, it turns out that each control session you lose 36,000 votes. [[Greetings.]] And as we go, from this group of citizens, huh? , of thirty-six, you wander away and make the effect that all this will be reduced to five or six Members [[remorse of the voice]] , probably, therefore, in the proper elections. Because the globes are inflated...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.147.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.148.0	...and it's disinflen. And his globe isn't that it's deflated, it's that it's petat – it's petat. Yours – you – have lost dirt and skeletons in this path. Pitjor: you've lost lots, the skeletals and the Lucas, in this path, you. [[Rialles.]] And people, why don't you vote for them? [[Widow's remorse.]] You shouldn't have planted it, what happened here? - What happened here? Because Mr. Rivera has at least had a point of decency, which I recognize, to resign, Mr. Rivera, who has lost [[the remorse of the voice persists]] , you've lost – you've lost. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, we've won votes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.149.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.150.0	We've won votes. Mr. Rivera has had the decency to resign. And you, who have had a terrible result and who have lost more than half the votes, you do not think to resign, Mrs Roldán? You, Mr. Carrizosa, don't you intend to resign? Doesn't Mrs. Arrimadas intend to resign after this result? [[Greetings.]] Listen, look, I do wish you, as you go, that you'll have all the time in the world to read the book of El Quixote that one day Mrs. Borrà recommended you, because it seems to me that many of you have had your time free to read El Quixote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.151.0	President, he's running out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.152.0	...and sure... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings and strong remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.153.0	The control session is over... silence. [[Communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions]] After the control session, let's move to the next point of the order of the day that is the communication to the composition plenary... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] If they have to get out of the hemicicle, they go out quickly and quietly, but they do silence, please, from the room. Communication to the Ple of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with Article 49(2), the composition of the months of the commissions must be communicated to the plenary. They keep it in the file; therefore, I preach that I will be exonerated from their reading..., from the changes in the composition of the Bureau of the Youth Policy Committee. If you are paying attention, I should now respond and effectively be able to exempt myself from reading. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Thank you. [[Proposal for the law of Catalonia's sport (debate of totality)]] [[202-00009/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, which is the debate on the totality of Catalonia's Sports Law Proposition and Catalonia's Sports Law Proposition and Physical Activity. As it is a joint debate on two legislative initiatives, in accordance with Article 138.2 of the Rules, a representative of the Commission for the purpose of promoting the proposal of the Law will first intervene for a maximum of fifteen minutes. And in the end, the three proposed parliamentary groups will intervene, to present the Proposition of the Law of Sport and Physical Activity of Catalonia. And then the rest of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups, all of them, for a 15-minute time per group and seven minutes and a half per sub-group. In the first place, therefore, has the word, on behalf of the commission promoting the proposal of law, the president of the Union of Sports Federations of Catalonia, Mr Gerard Esteva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.154.0	Very good day, very honorable President of the Parliament of Catalonia; members... – I don't know if any of... –, yes, members of the Bureau of the Parliament. He also wanted to give a good day to the President of the Generality, who cannot accompany us; also to the Councillors and the Councillors – Councillor Budo is indeed there – to Members and to Members; many thanks for being here today. Above all, I appreciate what they've been up to – they surprise a little bit of this half-naked, but I don't suppose we're used to it from the outside. It is an immense honor for us to be here today in the Parliament of Catalonia. They accompany me – yes, with the full court – presidents and presidents of federations, clubs, sports councils, significant agents and scientists in the sector, and I am convinced that our Honorary President, President Moner, would be very happy to see us here. I'll split my intervention into three parts. The first, the transforming force of the sport; the second, the universe of catalá sport in data, and the third, demands and needs of the sport sector. The promoters of the ILP are exportive leaders, who have the pride of being able to say that we are successors of Pompeu Fabra. In fact, in Pompeu Fabra he was our first president, 1933, and Pompeu understood that the best way to transform society was to mediate sport, coming to every race and everyone. Show of this capillary, of this strength, is what we have been able to demonstrate today, presenting here a popular legislative initiative with 154,492 signatures of support. I want to make a special thank you to thousands of volunteers, club leaders, federations, sportsmen, family members, who have collected signatures in favor of this initiative. We want to donate today, here, 154,492 thanks. Does that sound like the phrase that the sport doesn't have to be politicized? So today, we wanted to make a proposal a little different. In terms of politicizing sport, we propose that we sport politics a little more. And with this I want to put four examples of this transforming force of the sport. The first, the birth of the Olympic Games, the year 776 before Crist, in ancient Greece. The Olympic pau is established every four years by various peoples. A trifle that united them to celebrate the sport games and put an end to all wars. The second example is what was called the ping-pong diploma, the year 1971. The story was that the American selection was left to watch the last game of the Chinese, of a Chinese duo, and as there was only one bus left, the American and Chinese sportsmen, they took it. When they arrived at the Olympic village, they were stunned, the journalists there, because these various sportsmen came together on this bus. You're going to make articles. And the president of the Xina, Mao Zedong, read it and saw an opportunity to unfreeze, to unfreeze the capitalist and communist bloc of the time. From this point on, he invited the American selection to the Xina, to participate in different championships and one year later, President Nixon officially went to the Xina to travel. Avoiding, probably, what you have followed the third world war. The third example, of which there were no films, which probably all of you could see: Invictus. It's how Nelson Mandela used the sport to reconcile a country that had been torn apart. The roar, in South Africa of apartheid was seen as the sport of the oppressors, and President Mandela, far from eliminating it, empowered him to make everyone identify him as a space of reconciliation. Finally, the Winter Games celebrated the past year, the Olympic Diplomacy achieved the sport reconciliation between the two Koreas, sportingly speaking. Two historically faced countries that, thanks to the sport, have started this reconciliation and have laid the groundwork for submitting a candidacy for summer sports in their own Olympic Games. Certainly, who was the artifice of this country was a català, in Pere Miró, current Director General of the Catalan Olympic Committee, probably the català with the most international people we have at our home today. I wanted to take advantage of... – as much as it isn't – so I would like to address the Councillor of Culture to explain to her, taking advantage of the advent, that we are collecting signatures because the Creu de Sant Jordi can be granted to this universal catalá, in Pere Miró. Therefore, sport as a referent of pau, of respect and empathy. Let's sports politics, because that means there are no enemies. There will be rivals, obviously, and they will be able to beat in the playing field, with the maximum strength and respect for fairplay. But once they're done, they have to be able to build bridges and build bridges, too. Therefore, we follow all folds, to apply pau, love, brotherhood, which means to sports politics. One_second point is to explain the universe of sport. What is sports in Catalonia? If we look at entities with no jobs, they are represented by seventy federations, of the different sports, by more than 12,500 clubs, entities without jobs; more than 700,000 federations, more than 3_million Catalans and Catalans that form part of our sports clubs, practically 50_percent of the population in Catalonia. Also according to forty-five consells esportius, the Union of Consells Esportius, more than 150,000 students who practice sports daily, and also – as said before – significant agents and scientists in the sector: university sports, the different professional colleges, business associations managing public and private facilities, clusters, etc. If we look at the future profit, that is to say, with a lifetime of work, Catalonia has more than eight thousand businesses representing the European region with more density of sports enterprises. Do you know what the company or entity with the most assumptions, who employs the most people and who has the most internationals? They may have some football club at their head, but I must surprise them: no, it's Fluidra, a company that is dedicated to the water world. It employs more than 5,500 workers, makes more than 1,350_million euros, and is practically more than 50_percent of the world's countries. In fact, Catalan sport represents 2,1_per_cent of GDP; it employs more than eighty-thousand workers, and has more than forty-thousand volunteers: sportsmen, leaders, coaches, competition assistants, referees... Do you know how much the Administration would have to invest, if it had to repay all these people who work unselfishly? The last studies tell us that more than 350_million euros a year. The map of sports entities without any work in the country is clear force. 70 per cent of clubs have fewer than 100 members. And only a 5-per-cent have more than a thousand partners. And that's why we need to have an ad hoc law, to get more and better support for entities. Sport has a lot of familiarities: sport is economics, sport is health, sport is international projection, sport is education, sport is territory, sport is value, sport is occupation, sport is social cohesion, sport is integration and sport is equal. Sport is economic, as we have been able to prove with the figures commented earlier. The sport is occupation, more than eighty-thousand professionals. And here, let me make you a little addition, of the importance that our professionals are in the best form. And let's also point out a little detail: the law that today begins to walk does not change people the Law of Professionals of Sport, approved for this Parliament in 2007 and amended in 2015 in this same chamber. Because we are radically betting for the best training for our technicians and maximum security for our athletes. The sport is salutation – I also liked to address the Councillor of Salut. In a society every time more sedentary, it is necessary to make a determined and modern bet in favor of sport. Each euro is invested in sport, representing a change from summer to health. A person who does sports, costs between two-cents and four-cents less than one who doesn't. It is estimated that the cost of sedentary lifestyle throughout the State, costs more than 2,000_million euros. And in fact, the people who usually do sports, have a 25_per_cent less chance of having a cancer, a 30_per_cent less chance of suffering from diabetes, and a 33_per_cent less chance of myocardial infarction. Sport is an international project. Remember, from that phrase that was put up the very fashionable 1990s, that said: "Our world is the world. So that's what catal sports is. It is not only important to be the best of the world, which we are, in most disciplines, but the best of the world come to our home – I thank the presence of the very honorable President of the Generality – and therefore I also wanted to reflect on it: what better way to project Barcelona and Catalonia has our country ever felt than the 1992 Olympic Games? Because sport, it's also education. Now that there are so many problems in the education of our young people, there is a phrase that I like very much, which says: "Do you know what the best police is? The polysport. Because investing in sport, it means investing in education, in values, because the values of sport are immeasurable. Fixin-s 'hi: teamwork, empathy, companionship, overcoming, effort, respect towards others. Phone values that strengthen a society. An educated and sports society is a better society. Sport is territory. So that in the future representation structures of the sport there is represented the whole territory, and that we give opportunity to all the citizens of Catalonia. Sport is social cohesion, it's integration and it's equal. If we want a fairer, fairer and more opportune society, we need to invest in sport. Sport is probably the most powerful tool of social cohesion for integration and equality, both social and gender. There are a lot of projects from the entities that are developing and that go on this line. Sport generates happiness and empowerment. The more we sport women, the happier and the stronger we'll have our people. Finally, I'll focus on what they want this new law to do. But before, he wanted to make a very special thank you to the efforts made, first, by the promoters, the remaining entities of the sector, the same government of the Government of Catalonia and the groups that support him, Juntes per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana, and also the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, to reach this current consensus. Thank you all for the effort. Who are the objectives of this transformation of the sport system? Three, basically. First: administrative simplification. We want to be regulated by the Civil Code of Catalonia; we want the same obligations and the same rights as the rest of the entities, as cultural, venal, business and social entities. Second: We want international approval. The majority of European and world countries have large organizational paragons defending their sector. And here, we do not have an Olympic committee, we do not have a sports confederation, but we can have the Union d'Esports de Catalunya, which is an entity without any work that I represent the sector. No life, that is democratic, represented, as I said, and that is a co-working agent of the Administration. In fact, on a graphical level, I would like to take a small photograph: this pretends to be a bot of rems; who carries the helm is the Government, is the Administration, which sets out where the sports policies of the country should go, but who should row? Who is to say, it has to be the entities without any choice, it has to be the associated fabric of this country. And this is the image that we want to transform and transport into this new law of sport. This does not mean privatizing, it means strengthening the entities of our country. And lastly, the third objective, fundamental: financing. The other day the commission of the European Union was welcomed, with whom we have dealt very much with issues of European projects, of education and sport, and said: "Bless the policies that tell you good things, but do not presume... We need a financing worthy of the entities. In fact, if you look at it, the difference..., funding to entities, in these last years of the Generality, has gone around 10_million euros to sports entities. Do you know how much Sweden is investing in it? EUR 200_million; Denmark, EUR 150_million; Netherlands, EUR 250_million. We're a few years away. Therefore, we need just and dignified financing, which unfortunately we don't have today, which allows us to work mid- and long-term for the different actions of our entities. We do not come to seek charity or to live from the grant; we only want a share of what we generate in the association of the sport returned with meritorious criteria, making the most referent entities and, above all, with maximum transparency. The sports entities, unlike others, have three balances: economics – the accounts must be good–, sport – we want and demand results from them – and, lastly, social balance, compromised with society, social cohesion and integration. There is no company or entity of the rest of the country that must have these balances, as they ask us. And that's why we need to have a law that gives us an answer to these needs. Finally, we trust all of you because this new law from which today we all fold the first stone [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] serve to transform our country and turn sport into the fourth foundational pillar of the welfare state.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.155.0	Vagi ending, Mr. Esteva...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.156.0	As you say – and I finish – our Olympic motto, let's do it together, that we will arrive faster, be stronger and arrive more far. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.157.0	Thank you, Mr. Esteva. [[Proposition of the law of the sport and the physical activity of Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[202-00059/12]] On behalf of the parliamentary groups, Mr Ordeig, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar, spoke first of all.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.158.0	Thank you, President. President of the Generality, Councillor, Members, Deputies, persons accompanying us from the Government, from the Councils Sportius, from the Assembly of Barcelona, the Diputación, directors of assemblies, the Coplefc, federations, clubs, sports entities of the country, in the first place, from the Socialist Group and Unites per Avançar, we would like to welcome all people and entities of the sport world to whom they accompany us today and to the many who must follow us from the territory. Also make a very sincere recognition and thank you to the conjunction of the sport sector, true protagonist of what we are doing here today. This is not a law for Parliament, this is not a law for parliamentary groups, this is not a law for the sport world, but it is a law for our country, which has to define what we want to be. Therefore, it must allow us to become one of the territories of the world with the most sports practice, with the most practice of physical activity and with sportsmen and entities with international recognition, as it has been in the last decades. Therefore, thank you to all the work of all the people who made it possible. The history of the Catalan society, the history of our country would be impossible to explain without the great influence of the sports sector, of Centenarian clubs, of the Olympic Games of Barcelona, of Ultra Pirineu, of school sports, of popular sports, of the sports industry, which has grown and does not stop growing in the private sphere, among other examples; multiple and varied sports practices that have an undeniable impact, as has been said here, with people with undeniable international recognition, such as the Father Miró and many others. We also want to start our intervention with a very special thanks to the people who brought us here today, the work done by the Union of Sports Federations of Catalonia, with its president in the front, Gerard Esteva. Thanks for the intervention. Thank you to all the people, to all the federations you represented. Thanks to this federative model. Thanks to the 150,000 signatures collected to boost this new Law of Sport through this popular legislative initiative, which we have to give you course, which we have to give you response and which among all we have to make a useful tool for your own years. And so, here's where we all put ourselves to do it. I think today is a great day; today is a great day, not for the world of sport, as I said, but for the country's conjunction. In the moments that we are, and also to say, it costs a lot to situate the sport, the physical activity, the model of society that we want to build and the influence that healthy living habits have to have in this Parliament. And, therefore, today is an important day. This parliamentary process begins the way of reflection on which is the sports policy we want to define, and we must not rejoice and take advantage of these months that come forward to make the best of the laws possible. For me it is a great pride to be able to participate in this new law of sport and, at the same time, an immense responsibility to do so, that we do well and count on the conjunction of the sector – the conjunction of the sector. All of us are needed, all of us are essential, from the great sports club, as Barça can be, to the smaller club, to the regulated activity, as not regulated, all those expressions of physical activity that this law must contemplate, that this law must represent and that it must empower. A new tool that has to increase even more the quantity and quality of physical and sports practice in our home. And it has to be done safely and with guarantees. The Statute of Autonomy recognizes competences in the promotion, promotion, coordination and ordering of physical activity and sport in Catalonia, as in the discipline of general interest, as in the discipline that affects us all and each of the citizens of Catalonia. The same WHO, in the 2030 Agenda, has presented the World Platform on Physical Activity 2018-2030 as one of the objectives of the millennium. The new Sports Law has to replace that of the year 2000; twenty years have passed, twenty years have passed and what it is now to update, what it is now to open this law, what it is to modernise, to improve with a new vision, giving a new boost and making changes and taking advantage of the changes that have taken place in the past years and taking advantage of the opportunities of the future. We've got a long way to go. We believe that this is the way that will mark the sports policy of the own gods, twenty years, as I said before. In this process we begin discussions and reflections. It doesn't end here, but it just starts. We define sports policy with this law, and some of the objectives that the Socialist Group and Forward Units are to achieve participation, to achieve consensus. It is not a law we have to apply to parliamentary groups, but it will have to apply, it will have to serve the sector. So they'll have to do it. We need consensus, we need synergies of the joint sport sector. We need a great country agreement, a great sporting agreement and a great social agreement; to implement the conclusions of the National Physical Activity and Sport Pact, which was working; to give an answer to this ILP, and to make it compatible with what I said earlier, with the objective that sports practice reaches the hundred_per_cent of the citizens. We've come a long way, but there's not enough. It can't be... We have 45 percent of Catalans and Catalans who practice physical activity on a regular basis; it's fine, but it's all insufficient. Any study of health tells you that healthy life passes because all of our citizens, regardless of their condition and age, practice physical activity on a regular basis, and 45_per_cent is not 100_per_cent. Therefore, it is necessary to make a law that precisely gives an impulse to physical activity to arrive at the conjunction of the citizenry. The struggle against sedentarism is growing and the negative consequences it entails for salvation are a challenge and an objective. It is necessary to take advantage of the wide variety of disciplines and sports practices of later years; to deepen and enhance the benefits of physical activity, as has already been said, in education and integration into health, performance and spectacle, in the economy, with this impact of 2.1_percent of catal GDP, culture, society, etc. In all its forms; we do not exclude each other, all of us are necessary, all of us are essential, so much the one that makes competition sport as that of non-competition, so much the one that makes sport free as in a covered environment, so much the sport regulated as not regulated, the sport of competition and not competition, high and low intensity, public sport, private sport, school sport, university sport, and so on, etc. Therefore, a law – let's not forget – is flexible enough to fit all these practices and that comes, as I said, to all personal states and situations. There's no mention of totality, and I think this is good news that can also be pointed out; neither to the ILP nor to the purpose of the law. And what message are we giving here today the parliamentary groups? So that this law, at the margin of better things to be introduced, must pull forward; it must pull forward and it must be processed. And I have to do it, as did the Olympic motto, on the team. The sport values..., and we also would if this law helped us to translate the sport values into all spheres of politics, this Parliament, politics and society at large. Competition is good, but fairplay is good too. Therefore, it is necessary to do so as a team to arrive more far, to give a clear message that the impact of physical activity must come to all the roots of our country. The debate and the joint handling of the ILP and the proposal of the law, I think we should be glad. We have to thank all the people who made it possible. We will work with a consensual basic text, which is the basis, and this basis is what is..., this text is also open to input, modification and improvement. And this is where we also call out to all people who have doubts, proposals and concerns to come to the appearances, to be able to submit papers, to be able to make transactions and, therefore, that everyone feels that they have been shouted. The contents and objectives of the law, many are coincident with the ILP, many with the ILP and the law's proposal, and above all they have to reflect on how we can improve the governance of the sport, how we coordinate, what strategy we do, how we communicate with each other, what administration to do..., what the Public Administration has to do and how it has to relate to the sports entities. We create a sports union in Catalonia as an organ of debate, participation, consultation. More resources, as said here. Commitment to regulate well, commitment to allocate the necessary resources not only to leave behind the details of the later years, but also to see how we will finance the sport and see what is happening in other European territories. Improve funding with 1_percent of the Generality's budget, as at least. Creation of a new rate of great events. Or a lot of running, too, we'll tend, in the best of sponsorship and sport sponsorship, or set up tax bonuses for sponsorship too, which we've talked about a lot. Subsidies for the promotion of physical activity and sport. The simplification of administrative procedures, which we say... there is a historical claim, but it has not just been implemented either. Or also the wide-ranging recourse we have in the ILP, and also in the bill's proposal, in the women's sport and policies of equality in physical activity in people with disabilities or in the fight against violence, discrimination, racism, xenophobia, homophobia and masculinism in the sport; we talk a lot about it, but we still have a lot to resort to in these areas. Attacks against doping. Work for school sports, university sports; work much better the sport in all stages of education, of all ages. The regulation of sports entities, clubs, federations and sports councils; they must also be regulated in this law. Sports licenses. Sports of..., performance sportsmen and technology centers; we are an international reference in the performance sport, and so we must continue to feel; we do not make this compatible with the non-competition sport, we are all needed and we must continue to feel that way. The promotion of training, innovation and research through our centers of the INEF, the Catalan school, the CAR, the Indescat, the Catalan Observers of the Esport, etcetera, the Catalan Court of the Esport... How we can the sports industry, as said, private and all its economic impact, guaranteeing safety and guaranteeing competition. Participation of the assemblies, essential in sports policy, with equipment, with the urbanism of our towns and cities and with the promotion of sport. What collaboration do we have with the Barcelona Assembly and its legal regime and its sporting potential? Transparency and good governance of the whole sector. Security in sports practice. As well as the fact that sport volunteering, highly inculcated in the Catalan sport model, so does it have its own regulation? I would also add..., they don't look well at the proposal of the law, but we should also set up what role the great professional clubs of Catalonia, the great elite sportsmen, recognizable rendezvous of the world, of Catalonia, and how they can also help defend this sport model. And I also believe that, as not all regulation or everything that affects catal sport can be regulated in this law, I believe that it will also be necessary to create consensus, to seek consensus for those regulations that affect the Congress of Deputies or the European Parliament, that can also defend legislative changes that go in the right direction. In short, there's a lot to do. In summary, I think today is the first step in defining the Catalan sport model. The first step to define the present and, above all, to focus on the future of what we want catalá sport to be in our home for the next few years. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it was clear that we should be and that we should be part of the solution. We make ourselves available to all the people you are accompanying us here today, those who are following us and those who have not been able to come. At the disposal of all those who want to participate in it, the people, the entities and everyone who wants to participate. This will be a valid law if everyone hears it, and everyone hears it. As I said before, it is not the law of Parliament, it is the law of the Catalan sport world. It has to be the law of Catalan sport. To finish my intervention, I would also like to finish with a phrase from an African proverb, which I also like very much, which could be... – it's Africa, but it could be used perfectly in the sport sector – which is that with this law we can't go too fast all alone, but we can team up to get there, with the best of the laws possible. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.159.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. And then it's the turn of Congresswoman Anna Caula, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.160.0	Good morning to everyone and welcome everyone to Parliament. It's a joke today to come to this cliff to talk about sports, probably one of the things that I think identifies me the most and that has marked me the most in my personal evolution. The sport I think helped me be the socier. I think before Gerard explained to us all the values that were associated with sport and I think they are life values. So, today, welcome everyone, because the sport includes a lot of people and wills to work, as our company Ordeig told us. I think, here, we are to start, to start a path. To start a path of ambition, transformative and even say very brave. But also with humility and the ability to keep a lot of listening active. Because the sport encompasses many sensitivities, it encompasses many souls and we have to be able to be able to be permeable to all of them. We're leaving here today, I think with an initial text, with a base text, because it has to start at some point. But with a text, at the same time, very open, very flexible, that has to hold back many of the feelings of the different stages that include this sport world and to weave many and many complicitys. Tanmateix, too, we don't have to make a mistake. I think many times we talk about sport as a whole. And, really, sport is a very powerful tool, but it's also a very divided tool. Sports are many different ways to help us analyze it, they must also help us to know that it is so, to analyze it, and to treat it, not as a homogeneous whole, but completely the other way around. Many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, The competition is healthy. We also have that one, I think that thorn, especially those coming from the world of competition, to hear that it is not always to be associated with that old one does not know about sport. To compete is to grow up, to compete is to fight yourself to be better, to compete is to put the list higher and higher every day. We all demand a meth from that other level of compromise. Competition helps you be like this. Competition helps you grow up. But there's school sports, there's school sports; there's federated sports; there's sports for everyone; there's that sport associated with the third and that active aging; there's college sports. And, above all, we have to deal with this law as a law that includes everyone. Everyone– everyone– must be heard. And we never have to go into that fight, which we have sometimes entered, of what is better, federated sport or school sport, or that there is a rivalry here. Sports is all. The sport and the sport scene of a country like Catalonia must give solutions to all these stages and all of us must feel represented and everyone must have the feeling, from every area, that it is escorted, that it has the necessary resources and that we have the capacity to live and enrich all of this. And sport is so much more. Sport is sport and education. And especially in a world that, probably, every time we mark more of an individuality, that, probably, doesn't? Every day we see our children more and more associated with a tablet or a mobile, with interactive games, but not at that time of play, of playing, of learning to play, of learning to interact. So, all that we didn't have to work so hard before, now we've got it on the table. And the sport allows us to do that. The sport collection allows us to find ourselves in a space, find ourselves physically and work those values that we know build us as society. We also have sport and salvation, we felt it before. This law must also reflect, because it is a great social tool. Sometimes, with the Vergés Councillor, we talk about it. The best reversal to reduce waiting lists is not to treat malalty when it is already malalty, but reversal in sport, in eating habits, in physical activity. It's the sports reception. It is included in all this therapy of many pathologies the sport, the activity. It's also sports and architecture. It is as we think of our cities, as we think of our country, as we designed a city because it helps us to walk, to make sport, to breathe better. That's sports, too. And this must also be included in this vision of a law of sport, not to close it, not to make it small, but to be ambitious in many areas. Sport is also research, it's mobility, it's research in sports medicine. As this, then, is again applied to society: in biomechanics, in physiotherapy, in osteopathy, in two ways that allow us to attack and advance to recover diseases, to recover injuries, to live life with more salvation. In biomechanics there are so many open areas in research that generate and mobilize the world of sport and then have a return to social level. And we're also talking about this economic engine in which the sport has been converted; with an economic engine at the enterprise level, businesses as well as potential; each time we have as people are not aware of this physical activity. So we have a lot of gyms, we have a lot of recreation centers, we have a lot of people that the heads of the week are their way of « enjoying the ocean is the sport. Follow an active sport or continue tourism also aligned with the sport. So, it's all these days, it was earlier, the sport, in the end, it's not closed, it's very transversal, and so we have to face it. I remember very good times with Councilman Romeva, moments that have remained limited to us, moments that must now be in a prison, in a cell. And I'm headed to my Ciutadans company: when you go to a space where you can live there, because you're a congressman and you have this right, it's an ant cell, three by three meters, that you don't have windows, that you've got there after fourteen security checks, you sit on a bench and talk to your company. If this is what you associate with privileges, I think it would be a personal reflection. A three-by-three room, where everything, everything, everything, is ants. So with the Romeva company... [[Greetings.]] With the Romeva company, who is a person who esteems society, who has always worked on cooperation projects, who has followed someone who has mediated in political conflicts, and with much more people, with the Ernest company, with the Najat, we created a group of two deputies to talk about sports, of which we all understood that in the sport could be added and could be there. The demand. Requires this hemicle. It requires all those who engage in politics. It's a cry that there's enough of us all to use sport in our electoral programs, that's the slogan we always defend, that we believe in these values, now it's "come on, we're there!" - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A step forward, because what's on us is already acting, it's believing us, it's using them, it's putting them into operation in a cross-sectional way, and not just talking about sport, but being there. Because, she advises, I think she'll share it, that she's actually one of the ones with the most potential impact of transformation. We say so, at the level of social cohesion. It's probably a space that doesn't have any other space. When two infants enter a playground, they break all the roles with which you may have reached them. You're no longer born in Catalonia, you're no longer an immigrant, you're no longer of one race or another. Let's just start from scratch. And there the label is totally different: who plays well, who collaborates with their companies; few spaces that you, when you come in, are able to transform any label with which you have been able to enter. So let's face it this way, we're still ambitious. It's a law of sport but it has to go further. We must convince ourselves that all these words must really help us to transform this Catalonia which we hope, this progressive Catalonia, this Catalonia which must be able to recognise everyone, which must be able to hear that there is a federal sport, there is a collective sport, there is a school sport, there is a sport in the metropolitan area, there is a sport in the different regions of this country, which probably do not see the reality of the sport the same way that can be lived in Barcelona. We must be permeable enough to hear all these realities. I'm asking a question. Probably, if we talk or ask ourselves if we want more investment in sport, if we want to boost women's sport, if we want to take better care of basic sport, if we want to fight violence, if we want to promote sport as cohesive, that also encloses people with disabilities. Roundly everyone to these questions would say yes. Who can't say yes to all this? But, tanmateix, a prec, that we leave many things to each other. In this we have to regulate many more things. This law must mount the skeleton of the Catalan sport, this governance that reminded us of Congressman Ordeig, of everything – of everything – the Catalan sports system. And a thought. Many times we are obsessed with the tool, with the tool we have built. Does this tool work or doesn't it work? Actually, we have to be proud of a law that pioneered, that was, in its moment, a different law, that boosted catalá sport. I think that fifteen years after what he's looking for is reinventing, re-adjusting us, because sport wasn't the same fifteen years back as we're now. With everything we've been talking about, this economic engine, which means, everything that's been associated. And the evolution. Let's take advantage of everything that was good about this tool, and let's also analyze how we use the tool. Sometimes it's not the tool in itself that doesn't work, but it's also when we're at the front of this tool, which we use in fem, how we develop it. Are we empathetic with all that we have at our side? Or do we only impose according to what standards? Therefore, let us reflect on these two lines. One is, we put together a good tool, but, on the other hand, we also use this tool to develop what we have explained so far. I'd visualize it with an example. I think one of the demands from the world of sport is that it's not bureaucracy, that it's still simpler, that things find them very close. That, sometimes, to get a grant of four hundred euros, the path doesn't make you spend five hundred, does it? That, in the end, you don't know exactly where to put your foot. I think someone once explained that it's the feeling you have when you go to the administration, right? That you arrive the first day, with joy, and you see a big window with a person who cares for you, right? Wait till I hear you. Sometimes he listens to you or sometimes he doesn't. Let's hope so. But we hardly go when the second day this person up at this institution, this window you see the prettiest. And the third day she goes, she's still a little girl. And on the fourth day, when she comes home, this window can't find her. When the people who live with the world of sport get this feeling about institutions, it's something we're doing wrong. Therefore, let's force ourselves to have open institutions, institutions where everyone feels comfortable, institutions that make a law that gives answers to all the needs of the sports sector, that we leave no one out. And from here on out, it's: We have a tool on the table to work, work and work. I, above all, that sport makes us talk, that it's an aspect that helps us. It helps us to join together, and we all have the same goal in the end. We maintain, we have had a balance, I think very interesting, in the public-private sector, which is what we have to maintain. If one of the two fishes on the scale is unbalanced, maybe we'll lose something that's made us different from the rest of the community, which is our associative fabric, the lot of clubs, of entities, of associations that generate everything there is in sport. Therefore, the institutions that need to be smart and able to help, accompany and get there where these small associations cannot get there. Therefore, welcome all the people who work for the sport to this hemicicle. I believe that on the part of the Members the whole compromise to be flexible, to this active escort that we have spoken to you before, because I believe that the repte is important, it is a repte of country, because it can make us hear our society from a healthier optical, with all the objectives that we have on the table with Agenda 2030, and it is what we want and want all of us. So, welcome, and to work, we have a lot of work to do. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.161.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Anna Tarrés, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.162.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good morning, advisors, deputies, deputies, members of the Government, the General Secretary of the Esport, presidents of federations, clubs, Coplefc, councils esportius, the CAR de Sant Cugat, the UCEC, members of the Barcelona Assembly, representatives of the Diba, friends and friends, very good morning to everyone. Today is an important day for all of us who believe in sport and physical activity, and that is why we are starting the parliamentary debate on what will be the new legal framework for the next law on sport and physical activity in Catalonia; a law that seeks the purpose of creating a consensus text where all actors are fully represented and more so a global reference. The big projects are always team-friendly, they are always collectible; so I want to thank the companies of the Republic and Socialist Group for the predisposition and the opening of the eyes to enter together to deal with this proposal of law. Catalyst sport requires a standard_mark that addresses the country's new sporting and social needs. In the last 20 years, society has changed a lot and so has sport, and the law we have now has become small, and we have to make new clothes. A future law that sees from the moon. The work that we begin today has as a vertebrator the conclusions of the National Pact of Physical Activity and Sport, led by Councillor Jordi Turull, for which today I want to have a very special record for the terrible and unfair situation of the prison that is living. [[Greetings.]] A pact signed in 2017 for all the agents in the sector, a pact that guided us towards a new law that complements three main objectives. First, simplify the current legislation; second, promote sustainable financing in the sport sector in a stable and clear framework of collaboration between the public and private spheres, and third, convert sport and physical activity into the fourth pillar of the welfare state. And let me tell you that this is the origin of the two proposals of law that we are presenting today: one in the form of an ILP presented for a promoter commission, the UFEC and its sports federations, and the proposal of law the result of the consensus between the text proposed for the Government, the promoters of the ILP and the needs of the rest of the agents of sport and physical activity, presented and signed for the three groups previously mentioned. Both the ILP and the law's proposal have the same objective: to strengthen, adapt, modernise Catalonia's sport model, to regulate the needs that sport currently has and to cover all those aspects that may be relevant in the past 20 years. Also, the fund, the organizational model and the beneficiaries are significantly different. Start with the ILP. Mr. Was, really, to thank him for his intervention and the fact that since UFEC has boosted the creation of a new law of catal sport, but we must honestly say that we do not agree with the form or with the content of his proposal. As for the form in relation to the fact that a process for the development of a new legal framework for catal sport was set aside unilaterally and to the margin of the rest of the actors of the sport system and of the same Government of the Generality. As you are well aware, the creation of this new law of sport was one of the conclusions reached in the National Pact for Physical Activity and Sport jointly, and I am sorry: a pact that you signed on a double basis, as President of the UFEC and as Chairman of the Catalan Olympic Committee. And, to the surprise of many, his proposal for an ILP was put on the march in a difficult context for Catalonia, with the application of Article 155, and in moments of fever of the Government of the Generality and, therefore, without its participation or the rest of the conjunction of the sport system. For what it does to the content, under the motto« Preparations, Read, Read! , you gave reasons for the new law of sport, highlighting in a first place the themes and objectives that are common throughout the sport sector, such as effective equality, zero tolerance to violence and discrimination – I would like to point out the reconciliation between sports practice and studies – more international projection, a new model of financing to the more transparent, participatory and efficient sector, ultimately a new advanced, modern and European system. But you see where, in his campaign, when he was talking about an advanced and modern system, he was not thinking of creating a new model of the Catalan sport organization that three competitions in the public sector and that he was betting on a clear privatization of the sport through the creation of the Union d'Esports de Catalunya, giving the most prominence to the federal sector. When he spoke of transparency, participation and efficiency, he spoke of a general assembly formed for the sixty-nine sports federations, members of the CEU, two clubs, five sportsmen, a representation of institutions dedicated to summer and research and some member of the honor. When you refer to the new funding model, you create the Sport Promotion Fund, which is equipped through the entries of a general and compulsory sports license, among other mechanisms, and which the CEU will manage. In short, the CEU is converted into the umbrella of the entire Catalan sports system and holds all the executive functions of the sports policies of the Generality. Mr. Esteva, you will agree with me that the ILP was not well received by the rest of the actors, from the municipal world to the sports councils, passing through the university institutions, sports enterprises or professional colleges, the Coplefc. In the face of this challenge, I would like to thank the President's advisor, Elsa Artadi, for the gesture he has taken to create a negotiating table with the Secretary General of the Esport, Mr Gerard Figueras, the promoters of the ILP and the rest of the sector, with the aim of drawing up an initial text of consensus between the Government's proposal and the ILP. Let's get into the subject of the law's proposition. This proposal has 131 articles, with a motius of the international mandate, of the statutory mandate and of the structuring of the law into six titles. The first, of the general principle and of the sports administration; the second, of the sports entities of Catalonia; the third, of the sports practice and of the physical activity in conditions of equality; the fourth, of the formation, investigation and development of the sport and the physical activity; the fifth, of the financing and economic promotion of the sport, and, the sisè, of the sanctioning regime and the Tribunal Català de l'Esport. What do we want with this law proposal? So, look, something as simple as putting in value the transversality and the impact that physical activity and sport generates, and the values it promotes. First of all, they design sport and physical activity as instruments to improve pre-emptively the health and welfare of Catalan society, looking for a secure sports system with WHO guidelines; they bet for legislation on sports practice and physical activity, assuming a healthy lifestyle and becoming a privileged means of educating young people in democratic values such as respect, solidarity and tolerance. The text proposed to respect and preserve the natural environment and is committed to the sustainable development objectives of the 2030 Agenda promoted by the UN. This is a proposal from Catalonia and for Catalonia, respecting the territory and the sportsmen. The law that we propose is a law that must allow us to create the most appropriate environment and space through which all clubs, school sports associations, sports sections and groups, sports councils, university sections, federations and the rest of the industry can develop into one of the most complete sports systems in the world. But he also went beyond Catalonia. And in order to facilitate the projection of our country to the world not only promote to have more international projection with the Catalan sports selections, but also to promote the model that recognizes Catalonia as an exceptional destination for tourism and the sports industry. This PL fights for the effective equality between women and men, for the inclusive participation of people with functional diversity, at risk of social exclusion or discriminated against for any other reason; at the same time, it punishes abuses, assets, violent acts, as well as the use of doping substances, resulting from a culture that wants to promote the inclusion of all the collections in order not to let anyone back. As new as the sportsman's state has been included, they understand the sportsman as a citizen and practicing the physical activity in general that enjoys the proper administrative protection and that has a series of rights, obligations and exceptionalities that in no case can lead him to situations of imbalance or feverishness. It protects especially and for the first time the junior sportsman and people with functional diversity. Also for the preservation of sustainable environments and for the integrity of the people of the LGTBI collection. The woman also has an important role to play. We want a law for a country where the sportswoman has the support and guarantees to practice sports at all levels, especially at the highest levels of income, without the period of pregnancy or lactation assuming a limitation beyond the biologic. For this reason, and with this proposal of law, the Administration is obliged to stand by its side ensuring that it will not be discriminated against by reason of reason. Thus it is an unnegotiable bet for a greater presence of the woman in the directive structures, between a 40 and a 60_per_cent. This law also advocates a country of champions; it offers a support to high-performance sport, not only to the athlete, but also places clubs, federations, municipalities and other sports entities on the world sports map. This gives academic value to training in physical education and bets to strengthen academic institutions such as training centres and professionals, and also promotes sports research, innovation and technology, in a cross-cutting and comprehensive way, from extensive study of sport and physical activity to high performance. And in order to be able to end all these policies, we need strong and stable funding. It is proposed to deepen the public-private collaboration relationship that we already have today and to propose new formulas that must be able to cope with the social and sporting challenges of our country. This is where the CEU, the Fund for the Promotion of Sport, the sponsorship and private sponsorship, the sports fee in the sporting events of the masses, aspects that will certainly be subject to deep and reflected debate. Are we aware of the power of our country in the field of sport and physical activity? Are we aware of where we could get if we added strength and worked for a law that served as a common mark for everyone? It is clear that there are still some questions that we need to discuss and agree on: the claims for non-federals, the lack of representation of gymnasiums, the need and the function that it will be necessary to attribute to the CEU, the treatment of e-sports, and, for the part that I play, the lack of states for which it does to the stages of technicians and coaches. From Juntes to Catalunya we always defend that the new standard must represent all the plurality of the sector, always seeking general interest. And to end, and to do it in sporty terms, here we are just scalding. From now on we will start playing our own game, our own competition to fulfill the law of sport that deserves Catalonia. If we agree that the world of sport and physical activity is an authentic tool of social transformation, so must this future law. The question to all Members and Members of Parliament, agents and actors in the sports sector, to set up together the new sports legislation, without distinctions or impediments. Because when we talk about sport and physical activity, we talk about education and social cohesion, effective equality, inclusiveness and integration, and we talk about values of health and well-being, a well-being as physical as emotional. In short, we are talking about a country model. From this rostrum, and on behalf of Junts per Catalunya, we commit ourselves to listening, reflecting, negotiating and trading to achieve the maximum consensus and reach the model of country that we all yearn for, through this Law of Sport and Physical Activity. To thank once more the efforts of the Secretary General of the Esport, Mr Gerard Figueras, and all the members of the Government, who have been working intensively together with the ILP commission, for today we are sending parliamentarians to this bill, as to the text to be worked on in the future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.163.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We then turn to the intervention of the rest of the parliamentary groups to position ourselves. And it has the first word, the deputy Javier Rivas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.164.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, deputies, assistant public, very numerous..., that's nice, it's that mobilizes, that there's an important interest in this law, which I'm not going to talk about, because I don't know what law we're talking about, because there's an ILP, there's a bill and there's a government law, then I'll explain what, right? What I really want to explain a little – when the time comes for the truth, we'll go into flour – is, a little, the whole tour, isn't it? , everything I'm listening to, everything I'm living and everything I think this implies. For thousands of years and for thousands of years we were human beings or animals who moved, who had a lot of mobility, who worked as a team. Why? Because they went out every morning to hunt a mammoth running, on a team, didn't they? It was his modus vivendi. We're evolution. From there comes a body and comes a brain, which we have been adapting over time. But time is running fast now. In the last forty years, that old classic saying of mens sana in corpore sano, I think we've taken care of it. Why? Because it's gone so fast, we've suddenly gone into a sedentary life, into a life with new words, haven't we? : obesity, diabetes, social isolation..., are words that are ugly, that this law or this society has to correct. All I expect from the law that comes out of this Parliament is that it ends up being sport as a social recipe. It's what I aspire to aspire to this law, isn't it? , that sport is a useful tool for the society we live in, the inertia that it has and the derivative to which it leads us. They said "at this hour, in my land, they opened the zebras and the lions; Abebe Bikila said it, a young Kenyan who ran barefoot at the Rome Olympics forty-two kilometres and won the gold medal. Four years later, he won the gold medal again in the Olympics. For me that's sports, it's a social elevator. During the boom of the 1930s, Germany, Berlin, organized an Olympics. I wanted to be a window of the new era to the world, didn't I? But they took a surprise – for them sad, for me honorable – when Jesse Owens, an African-American, was able to win all the speed tests. That's sports for me, too. They say that in the 72nd Tour there was a very important battle between two very important cyclists at that time: Luis Ocaña and Eddy Merckx. Luis Ocaña was winning all stages. The rivalry between them had already passed to some unimaginable extremes, it was practically violent. The statements of one and the other were machete-like, wow, it was a furious thing. They didn't talk, not even in the platoon. It was a moment of great tension. And the stages were going on and Eddy Merckx at every stage attacked, but Ocaña at every stage defended herself, right? When two stages were missing to finish the Tour, Luis Ocaña fell off the bike, broke his collarbone and had to withdraw from that Tour he had won. But Eddy Merckx didn't want to take the yellow jersey. That's sports for me. It's honesty, it's principles, it's courage. You can win, but it's not all worth it. I attended not long ago – surely I will have coincided with some of those who are up there – at a conference that I liked very much, I learned many things, which was how sport is being used in African countries as a method of integration to overcome cases as, so, as extreme as child soldiers; for example, in Angola or in other countries, right? I was told that the modus operandi used by educators was to put those who had been victims and those who had been executioners, to put them on practically the same team, right? Of course, the first thing they had to explain to them was that the faults, at best, were the opposite, but that they didn't have to make fun of each other, because there was so much hate contained, that it was really a very complicated bet. It wasn't easy, it was a matter of time and that it was rolling the ball, but a moment came when they scored a goal and hugged each other together, thinking that a future was possible and that that disastrous past was over, wasn't it? Sometimes I think about it here too, I think we could one day stay with the opposition groups and throw a party; just like it would do us all a little good, wouldn't it? For me, well, I've already repeated, sports is that too, it's social therapy. Sport is many things – I think it has already been repeated before –, sport is health, it is culture, it is three points of GDP, it is sociability, it is overcoming, it is releasing serotonin, it is effort, it is companionship, it is a very long and everything I will not repeat, because other colleagues have already said it and it seems sufficiently well explained to me, right? I have put these examples that are extreme, that are the tip of the iceberg of this pyramid of what sport is, right? , but at the base of this pyramid are, therefore, all that group of people that socializes, that with friends on the weekend is going to take a ride on the bike, to throw a game of football, basketball, paddle..., people who come together to walk on the mountain or on the seashore. And not to mention – don't forget, please – all the children who are in the school yard dreaming that one day they can become Messi, that they can become Ricky Rubio, that they can become Rafa Nadal or so many other huge athletes that we have in this country, right? Nor do I want to forget myself, because for me it is important, all that is paralympic sport and sport of gender equality. I think that is also a very important asset, which we always say, but that we have to move from sayings to facts, right? Sport is polyhedral and logically requires a legal organization, right? I think it's right that we make a law, because the one we had is obsolete. The proof is that no one, no group, and we of course not, have not presented the whole, and we will accept the enchanted processing of life to have this law on top of the table. Johan Cruyff said football was very simple, that if you have the ball the opposite team doesn't have the ball; then, if you don't have the ball, you can't score a goal. Simplifying, but Cruyff had very simple reasonings, but very deep, didn't he? I think it is a bit what has happened here: we have a law twenty years ago, which at the time was very good, which has become old, and the government has not done its duties, and then came an ILP, a particular initiative..., which is a legal system that is contemplated, has no anomaly, which sometimes seems to me to have heard some Member recriminate this format; no, no, it is a perfectly legal format, perfectly feasible. The government has had to run to put a goal, to be able to tie the party and bring a proposal from it, which I assume will now end in a joint presentation. Well, I think it's great, but, well, it's kind of what the government's usually used to, that it's always a little late and a little bad, isn't it? What will Citizens do in this hypothetical joint paper where I believe this law will end? Please note that I have not talked about either article 1, or article 5, or anything, because I do not yet know what it is going to be, what we are talking about. We have two drafts, which will have to make a max mix there, a merger that I don't know how far it'll go. When the time comes, of course, we will manifest and have been parents and participants in that new law, right? Quevedo said no one promises as much as the one who won't. I do want to tell you what this Parliamentary Group of Citizens is going to do with this law or with those who come, right? And let me do it with an example, with a personal anecdote very own, very intimate. I went to a school in Vielha when I was eleven years old, I was on the Spanish children's ski team, and I remember that we were almost children, we were teenagers and with a great skier and a great person who left us this summer, Blanca Fernández Ochoa, we were training, we were doing abdominals. Then she held me, we made series of fifty, she said: "One, two, three..., fifty. When we were 50, it changed. And when she touched her I told her: "One, two, three..., forty, nine, fifty, but she followed: « fifty_and_one, fifty_and_two, fifty_and_three... I said to him, "Stop, it's my turn. And he said to me, "We would have to start counting from when it hurts, wouldn't we? Because that's when the muscle is already working. [[Greetings.]] That's all I'm going to promise all those people who are up there and all these people who are on the street: that we will work until it hurts, that we will work so that we all get a law that is useful for citizens, for sport, and, yes, always with the best sports spirit. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.165.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of Congresswoman Concepción Abellán, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.166.0	Good morning, Vice President, deputies and deputies. And good morning to all the guests who accompany us today from the world of sport. Throughout these forty years, since the beginning of the creation of public sports policies, in 1979, with the first municipal elections and the approval of the Statute of Catalonia, the Catalan sports system has been characterized by the actions of consensus and concertation between the various levels of the Administration, such as municipalities, county councils, deputies, Generalitat and the great variety of actors of a private sports sector, such as clubs, federations, councils sportius, associations, AMPAs, companies, which represent different manifestations of the sporting phenomenon, such as competition, recreational, school, university, elite, sports and health... Therefore, if one of these actors, however important, succeeds in carrying out a strictly unilateral legislative initiative with privatizing objectives, it breaks the policy of consensus and dialogue with which the tasks of the National Physical Activity and Sport Pact were initiated, and poses a danger to the stability and growth of the entire Catalan sports system. The National Pact for Sport and Physical Activity of Catalonia establishes five axes of action. The social axis, among other issues, speaks about the need to build a healthier society from the school age. The school and training axis outweighs the premise of putting values ahead of competitiveness and focusing on youth efforts for a high drop out of physical activity. On the axis of the high competition, the role of the administrations in sports activities is highlighted. On the economic-financial axis, it seeks to have a solid funding model to improve distribution in an appropriate way to its functions and needs. And finally, the political axis, where it highlights the need for a new model of consensual governance and in which everyone has a role, defining the roles of the various actors and focusing the new legislation from the perspective of transversality and social rights. The presentation of the ILP by the Union of Sports Federations of Catalonia – one of the parties, which is not the whole sector – torpedoes, firstly, the unit of action of the sports sector and, secondly, the national pact. It was presented at a convulsive political moment, with the application of article 155, and with a protagonistism of only one of the parts that make up the entire sports sector. This generates a break in consensus and a significant lack of representativeness. A ten-axis ILP, such as effective equality of women's sport, zero tolerance for violence and discrimination, enhanced sport for people with disabilities, more and better promotion of basic sport, improved technology of our athletes, reconciliation between sports practice and studies, more international projection, new funding model, more transparent, participatory and efficient sector, and new advanced modern and European system. On paper, these ten axes seem manageable, but the evidence is that most of the effort to change the law is put into the creation of the Union d'Esports de Catalunya, the financial management of subsidies and the main role of sports federations. The ILP creates a new entity that would be responsible for doing and undoing all the sport sector policy, in the public and private sphere and, of course, its financing. The proposal provides the Union d'Esports de Catalunya with public functions such as the implementation and development of sports policies and the control of the training of sports technicians, which today depends on the Public Administration des del Departament d'Educació, the universities or l'Escola Catalana de l'Esport. Likewise, it is given the capacity to intervene in urban development, by giving it competence in the planning of the facilities and equipment of Catalonia. It also imposes the obligation that every person practicing any form of organized physical activity, not only the federation, must have and consequently pay an annual sports license that will feed a sports promotion fund, which the document grants in full to the Unió d'Esports de Catalunya. We add to this collection capacity the role of distributing this economic fund, i.e. granting subsidies. Finally, there is another public function that wants to assume the Unió d'Esports de Catalunya, which is very questionable. We refer to the possibility of intervening and participating in the system of sports inspection of equipment, activities and licenses. A Unió d'Esports de Catalunya whose representation, in its general assembly, does not count with the professionals, the municipalities, nor the globality of the formative world in a proportional way, having the federations the weight and main majority, being only 25_per_cent of the sector. In short, it proposes a sports system tailored to the federations, without taking into account sports professionals, or the popular sport – represented by the municipal sports councils – or the individual non-federal practice of sport, granting to the Unió d'Esports de Catalunya competences specific to the public administration, being not representative of the overall nature of the sector with special importance of the granting of subsidies or inspection functions, which in no case should be given in the private sphere. We appreciate the government's intention at first to try to make a consensus text, however, the law that we are presented today captures all the evil that integrates the ILP, abandoning the social perspective that maintains the current Sports Act and taking into account the interests of the Union of Sports Federations of Catalonia and not those of the entire Catalan sports system. And it is true that, in both laws, the Unió d'Esports de Catalunya remains mainly as a representative entity of the whole sector, although today – I insist – the federative world represents only 25_per_cent of the sector – and I do not say so, it is collected in the ILP itself. In addition, they would be shielded and equipped with public management, economic and inspection capabilities, with the power to issue sports licenses, manage and distribute funds for the promotion of Catalan sport. And, more importantly, the text imposes that the Secretary General of l'Esport and physical activity would become subject to the Union d'Esports de Catalunya. We cannot understand that the Government accepts that it is the Unió d'Esports de Catalunya that marks the sports policy of our territory, understanding from our position that it must be the secretary general, who is at the service of the general interests. Nor is it reasonable for the Government to propose in this law that one of the ways of obtaining resources should come from taxes and lottery and gambling fees, when we are assuming the negative impact on addictions, especially among the younger ones, in the face of the proliferation of gambling houses. It is the Government itself who in its bill does not have the municipalities as a central space for the empowerment of sport and healthy habits. Other issues of concern to us about these proposals are that they both abandon the importance of improving sports habits and working on sport values. And we understand that now is not the best time to start a process to change the Sports Act, considering that the maximum responsible and negotiator of this Act, Gerard Figueras, has just been arrested for an alleged crime of misappropriation of public flows, prevarication and trafficking of influences. Having said all this, from Catalonia in Comú Puedes we understand that sport is a universal right of citizenship, understanding that this is one of the spaces of leisure, and must be taken into account in all its transversality, its potentiality, in the logic of collective values. Sport is a necessity for the person in all life cycles and it must be ensured from the community that this practice is not developed as a luxury. All people, especially children and young people, must have the right to sport and leisure. Sport must be inclusive and cooperative; those who practice sport must be treated equally and, in that sense, must move away from the mercantilist logic. In short, the two texts that begin processing are not our model, but we still understand that the sector is asking us to move forward. That is why we have not made an amendment in its entirety and we will work as hard as possible during the presentation and, above all, we will put on the table the changes we consider necessary for the improvement of this text. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.167.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.168.0	Thank you, President. Well, sport is a big part of our society. It seems unnecessary to repeat, but I think it is time to do so, that we are not talking about Barça or professional sport, but about those hundreds of thousands of people who each weekend practice school or federate sports, people who practice some sport in their free time, hiking, the motor world, etc. Indeed, sport is key to improving social cohesion in our country, to integrate new and new people, to improve physical state and health, and it is important for our children, for young people, but also – and every time – for our adults and the great people, sectors to which we have traditionally devoted very little effort to incorporate and keep from the world of sport. This law was to be the next step after the consensus established in the National Pact for Physical Activity and Sport, but we have to say that we have our doubts that it is a law of great consensus and that, at the same time, it has had a very participatory development and that it really takes into account the whole sector. More recently it seems that you have only come out as a response to the UFEC initiative and to its absolutely legitimate ILP – we take advantage to greet its promoter commission and all the entities present – with the implication that this may entail and, if not, the risk of an excessive decision on the priority interests of federal sport and the intention to control it over the rest of the country's sport. Well, on this bill we're dealing with today, we haven't presented any papers to the full. We want to discuss above all four questions or four aspects that seem to us, if not for us, of special relevance. In the first place, the repte, to which we think that at the moment this proposal does not respond, of a public policy, of a public and national policy of the sport of our country. A real sport for everyone, universal, free and democratic. And, therefore, a law that responds to the promotion of popular sport, not only of the sport – or mainly – competitive and elitist; a sport not primarily mercantile; in short, an accessible and inclusive sport of all the diversity of the people of our country. And in this sense we want to emphasize that, for us, a special theme of attention to this proposal of law, for the lack that we see at the moment presenting the proposed text, is precisely the attention to the LGTBI collection and the guarantee of its non-discrimination in the practice of sport. But, on the other hand, we also have to say that we are deeply concerned that this proposal for law, which it seems to be, is to enshrine a model above all of concertation, privatization of management and promotion of sport. It's not a public sports policy, it's a concerted delegation with other actors, and you know, ladies and gentlemen, concertation is one of the basics of corruption, corruption of the 3_per_cent, the revolving doors, etc. And this is a real risk that we need to address and that this law proposal, at these times, does not guarantee us. Well, we also find different novelties, but perhaps the most outstanding is the explicit recognition of an entity, the Union d'Esports de Catalunya, which officially does not yet exist and which is given a sequence of privileges without knowing either the representativeness that the entity, its members, or its functioning, can have, and this is incorporated into the most important law of Catalonia's sport, a law that should have been in force for many years. The law defines the Union d'Esports in Catalonia as the private entity that should be the umbrella of all Catalan sport, but as all private entity it will be the same and its members who decide its objectives, members and votes, finance, etc. And even if you don't know how they're going to end up, you give a lot of importance to the law proposal. One of the prerogatives given, for example, to the union, is the management of the foundations for the promotion of sport and physical activity, a foundation of public foundations and that will manage a private entity, instead of directly doing it the Secretary General of the Sport or the Catalan Council of the Sport. It also speaks to the law that, within the executive functions of the union, there will be the dispatch of general sports licenses. It is not very clear whether this will be at the expense of sports federations and sports councils, since writing is very generic. The entry into the exercise of a de facto monopoly in Catalan sport is opened. If you have this monopoly, if you don't get it from our point of view, it should be public and not private. We insist, we are ahead of a risk of commercialization, of privatization. Everything that comes from the point of view of rotating doors, 3_per_cent, etc., and from the other side a very important deficit of democracy between the sector and real participation, and on equal terms with all actors, all agents and all subjects that are active part of the promotion and promotion of sport, and especially popular and inclusive sport. The bill gives a great deal of importance to the union and, in change, there is not an entity that should be a baller of catal sport and its international recognition in its own years, such as the Olympic Committee of Catalonia, the COC. After years in a calaix, the COC was reactivated as a support tool and a boost to the international recognition of Catalan selections and catal sports. This entity, however, does not appear in the current proposition of law and this, from our point of view, is a very important deficiency, and more so if, theoretically, we aspire to become a full-right and absolutely normal nation in the international world of sport. Well, we could talk about other aspects. We will move all this, all these questions, all these approaches in the form of ideas and better proposals to the purpose of the law. We want, however, to make a special point of the risk of privatization, it is to say that the delegation does not take on a public policy with all that this could guarantee, of genuinely guaranteed access, universal, free, free and democratic of the sport of everyone and for everyone. And we're also missing, on the bill's proposal, a greater recognition and momentum towards popular sport and its organization. Catalonia has already been a pioneer in the Republic in the drive of sport beyond competition and federations. This could be – and not at the moment – an opportunity to give it a boost. We also want to insist – and we will do so again – that instead the issue of facilitating sports practice and non-discrimination of the LGTBI collection should be incorporated, when we believe that an explicit element should be made, so as to ensure that this particularly vulnerable collection is not discriminated against, at present, in the practice of sport. It must therefore focus on the deepening of sport practice in all levels of our society. And we also need to overcome the sport as a basic competitive element, so that it can finally become what it must be, a central element in social vertebracy and the transmission of values in the popular and national culture of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.169.0	Thank you, Congressman. Correspond now to the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. That's the word of Congresswoman Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.170.0	MPs, MPs, Councillors, need a new law of sport to encourage, to simplify, to ensure to give health and safety to the users of the sport, obviously they do. At the time, the Government of the Generality presented a law of sports professionals that was a nyap's mina, with a lack of regulation on the title and safety of users respecting the technicians, coaches and sports volunteers, which ended up in the Constitutional, partially annulled. And I assume that in this process above this presentation of the ILP, that we also analyze today. To see, we appreciate positive aspects in the two texts that have a normative vocation, which are the legal reserve of the legal gaps in favor of the third book of the Catalan Civil Code; also the principle of federative unity, is, to say, a federation for every sport mode; the willingness to plan equipment with a longer look and with a certain degree of stability, and also the specific protection of minors and the most vulnerable. It's true that we've also detected in both texts... what happens is that in seven minutes it's hard to differentiate between one and the other, and I'm going to make a point of all the possible problems that we're going to try to address in pomp and improve in this pomp. In the first term is the unconstitutionality of the second five forecasts on the dispatch of sports titles, both for the technicians and for the coaches. You already know that there is a legal reserve and therefore this can not only hinder the practical application but also break the market unit, break the equality of all Spanish professionals who are in the whole territory and who can have the same opportunities to access the race and the profession. I also understand how the PSC, with the proposal that it signs with the government groups, also insists on this unconstitutionality and with this prediction that it will end badly in the end. It is also true that we find that there is a certain regulatory interference with private clubs that respects certain questions, that I believe that those who call the most attention are: first, to remain in the autonomy of the will of the parties, with a contractual relationship, is to say, to fix who are the obligations of sportsmen and clubs in relation to the cessation of immature rights that we do not understand. Nor do we understand why there is a regulation on consumption, for which the sports halls, without distinguishing in the case of exclusively private areas..., that this prohibition should not only be stopped, let us say, the sports hall, of strict sports practice, but also that we do not understand why those social clubs that are part of private sports facilities are not enough. That is to say, we understand that you intend to ban alcohol consumption at the sports halls, we do not understand, therefore, that you put the bar and the top at the most eight degrees of alcoholic graduation, we would say, and so on, that alcohol at sports establishments, but we do not understand how this ban and limitation to restaurants that are among the sports clubs of private character are extended. Nor do we agree with the creation of our taxes. We're taxed that they serve and that they believe they're mitting a general sports license, in the case of coordinated sports practice. And I ask and the zombie will be a coordinated sport practice? Is he also going to object to the tax? because, according to this explanation so little clarification that there is in the law it could be even object of tax. It's also true that we don't agree with the funding and grant model, I think some group has already said it before, and the impulse of the sport that is backwards in these two texts, and, moreover, perhaps better than today to put it on the manifest. We have a model problem. Yesterday, exactly, five escorts and four arrests were produced, including that of the Secretary General of the Esport, the Deputy Director General of Management and Resources of the Catalan Council of the Esport and the exapo of the Olympic channel of Castelldefels. And I want to do two conversations that appear in this summary for this operation that is called "Bolo." And there are these two: the first is June 13th. The president of the Catalan Gymnastics Federation asked the secretary general, Mr. Figueras, what to do with five thousand to seven thousand euros that had left him with a subsidy that he received in his day, a direct subsidy, that in doing with these moneys. And Mr. Figueras, the Secretary General of the Esport, replied: "No, no, take advantage of them, because some other day things will not go so well. A second conversation is on July 30, and it is produced between the General Secretary of the Presidency and Mr. Figueras, and it is about the assumption that the Català de l'Esport Council would hold at the end, in a generic way. And that's what I'm doing in reference to this 1_percent forecast of the Generality's premise in favor of the generic impulse of the sport. He gave this General Secretary of the Presidency to Mr. Figueras: "Look, at the time of truth, you will see that we will do something presuppositional, because we will incorporate 8,2. But the remaining 4,2 we're already putting up with for something else. Do you agree? This is the content of the summary that yesterday caused four escorts and five arrests. What should we do to reflect on this summary, on the margins of which are the responsibilities and how far is it going to go? It's not true, Mrs. Artadi, it's not true, it's not true, it's going to go to court, it's going to go. [[Widow's remorse.]] Don't sweep... I think the funding model for sports entities is not correct. And with these two legal texts I believe that there is also a way that we can say that, in the end, it is the will of all – I believe, sincerely, the will of all – as much of those who present the bill as of those who present the legislative popular initiative. And it is to promote the practice of sport, because the worthy objectives that pursue sport, both in terms of health, both in terms of social integration and social cohesion, both in terms of social character values are good. And they do require, effectively, yes: transparency, control and above all that they are absolutely clear of party politics, corruption, clientelism, which is, now for now, what characterises it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.171.0	Well, after the interventions of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups, the Presidential Councillor has asked for a thank-you speech. So, he'll advise, whenever he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.172.0	Yes, thank you, President. Members, Members, just a few words of thanks for all the work that has been done to get here today, at this time and in this debate. A job that, obviously, and despite some interventions, therefore, has wanted to take away the importance that it has... – which is a thing, it is a thing – is a job that responds to the will of all the sectors involved. First of all, therefore, thanks to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and also to the parliamentary groups that are in the lead, to the proposers. In fact, a law proposal from civil society, the sports sector, the government and parliamentary groups has worked together to get these two parliamentary initiatives forward, the ILP and the Sport Law Proposal. Now I have to keep working, and I encourage them to keep working here, in their parliament, and I encourage them to do it to keep the best law of Catalonia's sport, to do it from the work of everyone, seeking the maximum consensus, which means that, in the near future, it will be a matter of debate and a matter of work. And I think it's in this Parliament where this debate and this work will take place so as to have the best law of sport for Catalonia. Therefore, a simple thank you to all and to all for the work they have done so far and for what it lasts so far. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.173.0	Thank you, Counselor. After the debate, and since no papers have been presented in totality, these two initials will continue their parliamentary processing. [[Request for the President of the Generality to appear before the plenary to inform me of the support he gave to the defense committees of the republic, respect for judicial resolutions and compliance with the constitutional order]] [[361-00017/12]] And now we move to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on four requests for the President of the Generality to appear before the plenary. As you know, the plenary approved yesterday the enlargement of the agenda with this new item and the Board of Spokespersons yesterday also agreed to substantiate the joint debate of four requests by the President of the Generality before the plenary, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Commune May and the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units to advance. This will be the order of intervention of the parliamentary groups to defend these four requests for appearance, with a total time for applicants of five minutes per parliamentary group, two minutes and a half in the case of the parliamentary subgroup that has not applied. So, let's start, in the first place and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, for the Member of Parliament, Mrs Lorena Roldán, who has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.174.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, at the end of September, a Civil Guard operation unveiled the plans of several members of radical separatist commandos, who apparently intended to attack in Catalonia. According to the summary, these radicals had a list of objectives among which this very Parliament was among them, and we are increasingly getting more and more details about the summary of that so-called « operation Judas, a summary which reveals that the radicals wanted to assault this Parliament with – attention – the help of President Torra. According to the summary, Mr Torra intended to close himself in Parliament together with the radicals on D-day. This Parliament is already carrying out two attempts at assault as far as the year goes, two attempts at assault that neither Mr Torra nor the President of this Parliament have dared to condemn. And I wonder, why? Why do they do absolutely nothing when they try to rape this Parliament by force? What's the matter, that D-day was perhaps the third attempt at assault? The one about success? What did they want, to entangle themselves here and to put into operation the Assembly of Elected Charges? Is that the idea you have of democracy? Expulsion of anyone who thinks differently. Well, look, that has a name, it's called totalitarianism, and I don't say it, you say it with your actions. [[Greetings.]] Look, almost two months after those arrests, Mr. Torra hasn't even given a single explanation. He has issued a statement with just a few lines in which Torra not only does not clarify anything, but above it has the defachability to question the performance of the National Court. Today, in the control session, Mr. Torra was asking me if I'm the prosecutor. Well, look, no, I'm not the prosecutor, I'm a Member of this Parliament and, above all, I'm Catalan. And as a deputy and Catalan, when I am the Civil Guard, the National Court and the detainees accuse the President of wanting to assault this Parliament – which I remind him is not his courtship, which is everyone's house – I have my right to ask. Of course I have the right, because you fill your mouth by claiming the rights, but the rights of others trample them that gives pleasure. [[Greetings.]] It's a real shame how this president doesn't look. How he hides, not even when the information points to him. And I, you know what I tell you? That's what the man who's quiet gives. And the saying says that by their deeds they will know them, and theirs, for the truth, is that they leave enough to desire. Look, as soon as Mr. Torra is asked about the CDRs, he takes out his chest and tells us that they are friends of his, even family. When these gentlemen, by calling them in some way, are dedicated to cutting roads, blocking train tracks, assaulting public buildings by force and fighting, Mr Torra comes out and tells them to tighten up. When they besiege the airport, when they sow chaos in Catalonia, Mr Torres publicly thanks them. When they cut roads, when they block Catalonia, when they make it difficult for Catalans to make normal life, Torra not only doesn't condemn it no, it is that he has the hill to go there to cut the road with the official car too. It's just that you don't have a bit of modesty, Mr. Torra. And on top of that, when they arrest these people on suspicion of terrorism, Mr. Torra applauds them. It's a shame. And, look, I'm gonna tell you, this is what we're getting to know from the summary. Look, these are the explosives that the CDRs in prison could manufacture according to the Civil Guard. Fixed, in a report dated twenty days before the arrests, the Civil Guard assures that with the materials with which the group counted they could manufacture the following explosives: ammonium nitrate; termite; ANFO; RDX; nitroalmidone explosive; acetone peroxide, also known as ‘Mother of Satan for terrorism and jihadism; chemical fire bottle, which is Molotov cocktail more complex, with sulfuric acid. Look, these gentlemen, that you applaud and defend, what happens, that you're addicted to chemistry? Because I don't think anyone at home has this. In addition, look, they had also purchased iron chips, bearings with twenty steel balls the size of marbles, three cases of screws and wheels, aluminum pieces, iron oxide and other batteries. In addition, they also had a material to manufacture a laboratory. Look, these gentlemen, these gentlemen who had all this, with plans and materials that could become explosives, point to Mr Torra as an accomplice, say that Torra knew the plans of these people to attack Catalonia and to attack this Parliament. The World, too, echoes this summary: « Gandalf and Lisa, the key names of Quim Torra and Carles Puigdemont in the conversations of the radical commands. Says one of the detainees: "It's a matter of two or three weeks ago I organized a meeting with Lisa's sister – Lisa, so that you understand me, the key name of the one who's with the flamencos in Belgium, the mandamas, so that you understand me. Come on, the fugitive, so you can understand me, huh? [[Greetings.]] Then also, go on... Continue and say: "I am working with them to shield communications and assure them also a communication with Gandalf – Gandalf, the one who is here. For you to understand, the one who's not here. [[Greetings.]] It is a real shame! –A real shame! And what Mr. Torra has to come here is to go out and face him. And if he doesn't do it here, because he's going to hide again, let him know that he'll have to do it before justice and the prosecution, because we've denounced him for these facts. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.175.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia... [[Request for the President of the Generality to appear so as to inform me of his relationship with the detainees for the National Audience by presumed belonging to a terrorist group and of the presumed knowledge of the plans envisaged by the names «tactic response teams»]] [[361-00018/12]] Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.176.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members and Members, I want to begin..., the origin of the President's relationship with the CDRs before; it does not begin on September 23rd, but it began the May of the past year, precisely in the investiture debate, in which the President, already in an indirect way, when he spoke of the three lives of exercising the republic, spoke of the Council of the Republic; he spoke of the Assembly of Elects, of which we were able to speak yesterday also with an inquiry, and he spoke of the citizenry empowered, literally empowered and mobilized, which are basically the CDRs, right? Because since the first day the president has already shown his agreement with the CDRs, his dialogue, the family members of the CDRs, etc. So, it's a relationship that doesn't come from now, but it's a relationship that's been going on since the first day of the legislature, from the first day of President Torra's presidency. After we know about the '- And then, of course, when some people hold on to the others..., when you hold on to something, so it comes out for another band, right? And that's what we're looking at functionally these days. And then, when some of them turn against him, too, because like he promised to do this from the republic and it costs so much, didn't he? So they are revolutionized and "listen to me, that you betrayed us and so on, and he says to them: "—No, no, no; listen, listen, the revolt—the revolt—we raise it up to after the sentence; then it is the moment of the revolt. Looks like it's time for the riot, according to the president's announcement, right? Therefore, they are being completed; their instructions are being completed. I've already warned you some other time of the risks that all this has, haven't I? The promise of deceiving paradises is at risk of frustration. And this frustration, generally, then ended up channeling itself into violence. And we're living it, we're seeing it, aren't we? But, of course, what has the government done before all these situations? And the president. What have they done? Res, ambiguity– ambiguity, absolute ambiguity–, a certain understanding, right? He said: "Violence... – he said it today, didn't he? –, he says, "Violence is not the problem; the problem is conflict. So, look, no, no; it's not about that. The conflict is the president; it is he who with his ambiguity and with his silence fuels the conflict. And with this we arrive on September 23rd, which actually produces these arrests of new CDRs accused of preparing violent acts, of rushing into a barracks of a civilian guard, of throwing high-voltage towers, of throwing communication towers on the ground. And the President's answer cannot be more laconic: "They are compromised people. Man, people compromise like this I want her in jail. And in pre-trial detention, they haven't set. But the compromised people who have to attack Civil Guard barracks, pull communication towers or high-voltage towers, I want to compromise it to the prison. And then you see the petition for appearance that we are debating today, because we were to present it on September 30, the result of the information that appeared at that time. But now you know the summary. And now there are gravitational conversations – it is literally said, gravitational conversations – of some of the CDRs with the same president of the Generality: plans to close between Parliament, plans to carve reels, surrealists conversed about Gandalf and Lisa. Escotin, an absolutely surrealist thing, isn't it? And, therefore, we believe that it is essential [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] that the president explain himself, or deny it, and do so here, in his parliamentary office, in a session where he says: "Escoltin, that is not true. Because, if there is anything of all that is true, he should also come here, in his parliamentary office, to present immediately his resignation and his resignation as President of the Generality. That's what I should do. And let me finish this intervention by reminding you of the dichotomy that today the CDRs themselves have placed in a statement. The dichotomy is: independence or barbarism. If I've analyzed... I'm sorry, huh? However, as this independence is not possible, there is only one option: barbarism. And that's what the CDRs defend, the barbershop. And that's what the president defends when he says the CDRs are compromised people. Please remember the fault of Isop: raise crows and they'll take your eyes out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.177.0	Next has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia. [[Request for the President of the Generality to appear to inform me of his alleged connection with any actions to the Parliament of a group of the defense committees of the Republic]] [[361-00019/12]] When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.178.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, from Catalonia to Comú We can be fully aware of the moment of exceptionality that the country has seen. It is for this reason that both from the institutions and from the street we have expressed our rejection of the Supreme Court and we have demanded the immediate release of all independent political prisoners and prisoners and prisoners and the fission of the judicialization of the Catalan conflict. We have also defended and will continue to defend, not only in Parliament but also in the Congress of Deputies, that the situation of blockade and democratic regression that we live in Catalonia will only be resolved through an honest and sincere dialogue between the Government of Catalonia and the Government of the State; also through a dialogue between the parties and the Catalan society, which will allow us to collectively build a political fate that will have to vote on the assembly of the citizenry. And as we know that we are ahead of an extremely delicate political moment and that we need all and all to follow the maximum of curiosities and curiosities in the exercise of our responsibilities, we cannot afford to have any shadow of doubt as to who the objectives and intentions of the President of the Catalan Government are. Catalonia needs a president who knows how to be on the rise of history, not a president who wants to make history. When the Civil Guard arrested the people belonging to the CDR under alleged charges of terrorism, we already expressed our concern about how these arrests had been made: overnight, at the door, without guarantees and before creatures. We have warned about the defencelessness of detainees and the most likely violation of the right to defence, as family members have already reported, their lawyers and human rights organizations. We have expressed our concern about the fact that, once again, we have been able to use unconditional imprisonment in an excessive and unjustified manner, in a more criminalizing attempt at protest and independence, as we have also seen in the cases of persons held in detention, from protests after the sentence. We have denounced the perilous nature of trivializing the concept of terrorism, of using victims, and of the democratic risks that would equate terrorism with independence, an eminently peaceful movement. And they said, "Ciutadans created a red line when he used the victims of ETA politically and electorally in this Parliament." Besides, without the service of anything, because citizens politically and electorally amount to zero. For weeks we have expressed the need for caution until the summary is known. And now we're starting to have some information. Nevertheless, we insist: this information must also be treated with caution while there are doubts as to whether the rights of persons detained during detentions and interrogations were respected, such as, we insist, family complainants, lawyers and organisations such as Iridia. In this context, last week, different means of communication were removed from the summary where the witnesses were gathered from some defendants, from one of the defendants, it is said that there were plans to occupy the Parliament, with a possible connection of President Torra. We insist: we respect and demand respect for the presumption of innocence of the persons prosecuted, and we have doubts about the circumstances in which these statements were made. That is why, in no case, this petition for the appearance of the President of the Generalitat supposes to cast doubt on this presumption of innocence or to criminalize the persons detained. Nevertheless, we believe, as a parliamentary group, that it is an obligation of the President of the Generality of Catalonia to come here, in his parliamentary office, to give explanations, to explain himself, beyond what he said in a communication and what he said later in communication media. We believe that this petition for appearance is a petition for common sense and institutional responsibility, to protect the self-government and institutions of Catalonia, which has cost us so much to achieve and so much to maintain. That said, we also want to insist on rebuking aggressive forms and out of all institutional respect that make some of the groups of this chamber, mainly Ciutadans but also, sometimes, the People's Party. It's inappropriate for a public representative, an elector, to do according to what kind of insinuations or to use lies, manipulations and exaggerations to supposedly make you see that you're right and win votes. There are a few here who would have to lay down their resignation. It is precisely these practices that have whitened and donated to the extreme right, those that have fostered the growth of the ultra-right, precisely at the expense of the votes of Ciutadan and the People's Party, because Vox has advanced them to the right, because it is better to vote the original than the bad copy. And to the president and parliamentary groups that support the government, if they think that the only group of this chamber that is not independent and that defends political prisoners, that the only non-independence group that defends it allows it to debate everything, that the only group that has state alliances and that defends the dialogue and the political solution at all – in Barcelona, Madrid, Andalusia, Valencia, where it is –... if they think that, by asking for this appearance, they are the enemy, that they have a problem of perception of reality. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.179.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Request for the President of the Generality to appear so as to inform me of his alleged relationship with the detainees who allegedly wanted to act against Parliament and its presumed knowledge of the planned plans]] [[361-00020/12]] On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is now the return of Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.180.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs and MPs, I can do nothing but signify the absence of the President of the Generality. It seems to us that, before a debate like this, it would be the least, that you were present in the chamber. Fi. I was talking about the Member who preceded me in the use of the word "necessary prudence" at the time to approach facts as we are addressing. And I believe that this is actually the attitude that must be taken when they approach each other like these. In fact, our parliamentary group, and I myself, on some occasions, have had occasion to return to the governing groups and, in concrete terms, to the President of the Generality of Catalonia, the reckless approach that they have taken as a first reaction to the events of which we are all talking about now, because instead of saying: "If anything about what these people are talking about is true, it has nothing to do with the independence movement and it has nothing to do with seeing with us, and we have no link with this, and we condemn it, if anyone is thinking of using explosions for sabotage, tempts, or of occupying the Parliament with any of the ways, at the very place of this, it has been an elusive link to the defence, which is an unrefutable link to the defence, which is a very defensive link; No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Because in such a broad movement it is not so hard to imagine that there may be people who choose for life that they are not democratic. That's what happened to the length of this country's history, too. So it's not that strange or unimaginable. That, on the other hand, caution also recommended doing what our group has always done, which is demanding respect for the presumption of innocence of everyone detained. So far as the secrecy of the summary has been raised, we must continue to claim this presumption of innocence that assists them, obviously. And also, before the information in the summary, he also, of course, attends the presumption of innocence to the same president of the Government of Catalonia, who, according to this information, somehow would be involved. But we, of course, are not a judicial organ, we are a political organ. And, therefore, before the gravity of the links that supposedly existed in agreement with the information given to the summary between the people who were preparing the explosion, who were planning to use them for sabotage or perhaps for the time being, who were planning to rob an institution such as the Parliament of Catalonia and to entice themselves there, the least that can be done is to ask the President to appear in his parliament to explain what he thinks appropriate to those links that are attributed to him. And we don't ask him for diabolical proof, it's to say that he has no such connection, because actually, as is known, diabolical proof for something has that name. No, you don't have to prove there's no such connection. But it does deserve a political explanation, this Parliament, about these hard conclusions that one can come to if he reads the summary. Because, of course, we find ourselves in front of a president of the Generality who has always publicly boasted of a proximity to the CDR, a movement that, apart from being protagonists of these days, therefore, certain forms of protest with heavy consequences, we believe, also for coexistence, is the movement from which a group of individuals who do not know whether to form an organization or not, this will become clear when there is a feeling, but who are these people to whom they are linked. And he defended them here, in his parliamentary office, talking about "citizens compromise with their society. And they came to applaud these people here, and they were called political prisoners. And it seems to us that after all this, and we know the contents of the summary, we deserve, the conjunction of the deputies and the deputies and the citizens of Catalonia, an explanation by the same president of the Generality of Catalonia. Because, if that were true, if those bonds were true, the President of the Government of Catalonia would not be able to continue for a minute at the head of this high institution. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.181.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the return of Mrs Maria Sirvent's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.182.0	First of all, we want to take advantage of our intervention to demand the immediate freedom of Edu, of Germinal, of Txevi, of Xavi, of Jordi, of Ferran and of Alexis, and to send all our support to their families, friends and companies. [[Greetings.]] The requests for appearance in which it refers to persons detained on 23 September in a police operation orchestrated for the Civil Guard and directed for the National Audience, where there were more than five hundred agents..., and these people were transferred to Madrid, where the National Audience decided its admission to prison under the charges of terrorism, bombing and conspiracy for stars. Everyone is under arrest, in FIES 3, with the restrictions that this entails on their rights. Exactly, in Xavi and Jordi, they're in the wings. This means that they are only due four hours away from their cell; the rest of the day go up into the cell. Accusations against these people are accusations without any type of legal basis. In the course of the judicial proceedings, violations of the right to defence of persons held in detention occurred. As reported by the Solidaria Alert, the defence team suffered numerous difficulties intentionally exercised both for the Civil Guard, as well as for the prosecution and the National Hearing. Interested media leaks have occurred and parts of the summary have been published without any contextualization that has created legal uncertainty. It made it hard for the law team to know where the inmates were. It took the first interview with the lawyers until thirty-six hours. In Ferran and Jordi there were twenty-five days, respectively, without being able to access his trusted lawyer; his statements have no legal validity. Trafficking conditions were absolutely inhuman: they were hooded, they were days without sleep, they were interrogated in the morning for hours, without any form of legal guarantee and with flagrant violation of their rights and of their right to defence; they suffered coercion and threats against them and their families. All parliamentary groups have been able or have had the opportunity to talk to family members to explain to you the very serious irregularities that have occurred. This is a state operation. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , with a clear political intention. You serve filtered process information without any type of rigor. We do not believe in this judicial procedure, but if you believe in this procedure...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.183.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.184.0	... – President, I'm finished – if you believe in this judicial procedure, as you should least expect this to end. We celebrate mobilizations, celebrate shows of solidarity and don't stop until our companies are free. And we encourage everyone to participate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.185.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.186.0	... of these mobilizations. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.187.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Ernest Maragall has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.188.0	Yes, thank you, President. Indeed, one of the essential functions of legislative power in a democracy is to control government action and the same government, beginning naturally with its presidency. But let's make it clear: what they're proposing to us today is something else; it's just another step in the process of harassment and overthrowing Catalan institutions and independence as a political project and as a social movement and a city, huh? What you are doing today is the most explicit prostitution of the concept of government control and its parliamentary form. Coming from you, lords and lords of Citizens, you are already surprised. You were born politically to destroy the Catalan self-government, to suppress the Catalan school model and to subtly subtly control the public communication media. But now it turns out to be against reality, against the social, cultural and political reality of Catalonia; now the definitive democratic verification of its failure has arrived in this sense. Citizens, PP, PSC talk about supporting the CDRs, belonging to a terrorist group, acting against Parliament, not knowing how many barbarity. Low-level fiction policy. How much presumption of guilt – this yes – how much recklessness, how much distortion and abuse of the democratic function of parliamentary control! Friends of the commons, it seems incomprehensible and painful to find you in this very pack of requests for the President's appearance with the parties of repression. Frankly, huh? A little more exhibition – this is what we are used to – of equidistance and ambiguity calculated: presumption of innocence, yes, but that, while politically exploiting suspicions of connivance with the violence for which it may be, to see if..., some harm will remain. His position is particularly disappointing, even more so after the agreement that we met yesterday, PSOE-We can, this agreement that includes..., we see how they limit the situation today in Catalonia to a question of internal coexistence and respect for the laws. Don't give us any more moral lessons and even less come to ask for explanations based on a supposed rape that you know perfectly well that it doesn't exist. You all know that; you all know that independence is not violent, you know that we will gain our independence by mediating non-violent struggle. And precisely because they know it, they prefer to raise paranoia and misrepresentation of actual events. That's enough, huh? The paranoia of this invented rape that haunts the parties of the State will never win the reality. And the reality is the ballot box, it's the 11th of September, it's the freedom marches, it's the continuous demonstrations and peaceful demonstrations in the places of towns, towns and cities. This is the reality that you two are not seeing and not wanting to hear. And that's why they're desperately looking for some evidence of violence from some group or someone who's pulled a pretty big stone like it can be described as terrorism. They won't get together; they can invent terrible stories and far-fetched conspiracy, but they won't be able to prevent the final success of the collective determination of the Catalan society, as they won't be able to prevent the sum of peaceful mobilizations together with the growing firm unity of the institutions and sovereign parties that end up falling down the wall of repression and intransigence that today binds them here in this shameless attempt to criminalize the President of the Generality and with him, all of us. The proposals we have changed: they demand that they renounce the policy of cremated land; they demand that they return to the real policy, to the democratic policy of mutual respect and to the search for tangible and effective agreements. They've given up politics, they don't know or they don't fly. Some of you propose to overturn all vestiges of self-government, beginning with this Parliament, which you accuse of inefficiencies but which in reality would be silenced, dissolved, for a new and more intense application of Article 155. Or will they tell me now that they will also ask Madrid for explanations for arbitrary detentions, the conditions under which detainees were detained, the absolute lack of procedural guarantees? Who should compare, maybe yes, here, is Minister Great-Marlaska, huh? He does have a known and continued relationship with members of the security forces. [[applause]] that they allegedly organized ill-treatment, humiliation and illegal detention. Abandoning the sound of rumours, false accusations and abusive use of police reports; returning to the lively music of the democratic debate, the contrast of ideas and proposals, to the dialog able to open lives of real adventure in order to respect the democratic will of the Catalan citizenry. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.189.0	Thank you, Congressman. And to finish the debate has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.190.0	Councillors, Councillors, Members of Parliament, President Torrent, President Torra, good morning. One day you defend the ballot boxes, and they put a hundred years in prison, and they take freedom; they say they are ashamed. One day they want to kick the server to impudently tap the mobile, lock the internet and you are no longer free; if you give up a digital status, you give up 155 digital. One day don't let you talk about what you want, and you're no longer free; you're going to censor yourself. This is the situation we are experiencing today in the Parliament of Catalonia. We have arrived at an impromptu situation in a Western democracy; in this house there is a list of permitted themes and another list of prohibited themes. There's a girl from Gran Germà, who's the Constitutional Court, who's decided what we can talk about and how, and what we can't talk about in this house. What we have denounced is a difficult democratic anomaly, a perverse situation, which is now thanks because we thought you were going to Poland, but if we find it without a time limit, it is based on it and it is enormously asphyxiating, because ideas, debates and countries cannot live asphyxiated under the threat of the permanent threat. I, aside from repression, this political moment has other defining elements. One of them, which in Parliament has lost its good forms and has largely replaced itself with poor education, a market of insults and provocations. I ask them to do so, in the most global way possible, but this is a political reflection of depth and appeal, which appeals to all of us now and here. These last few months, this constant, permanent devaluation of the public debate has found one of its maximum expressions in the understatement of the figure of the President of the Generality. Some have cregued, some have cregued that it's all gone and that thinking differently is a endorsement for the empowerment of your political rival – so not sir – and that's what you've been trying to do with the figure of the president of this country. Some of you have confided political divergence with defamation. I'll tell them the way Avi Lluís Bonell Sabat, who was a savi. Do they know what defamation is? Do you know what it is? So defamation is throwing a whole lot of lead in the air and then saying, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry! And want to pick them up, because, as much as you want, you won't get away with it; it's impossible. That's defamation. And in this Parliament, and they want to feed a certain conspiracy relationship, they've burst, they've snuffed themselves over pillows full of lead. And one day they'll want to collect, these lead, and they won't be able to. But playing rough passes the bill, and you know it; as in the case of Ciutadans: from fifty-seven to god. You have tried to lose day if day also the figure of the very honorable President Torra, since the very moment he took over the cargo; there is no right. Not a hundred hours of grace; there is no right, nothing. You thought if you hurt President Torra and Puigdemont you'd be guanyarian. So they got it wrong and lost. Playing with the harvests also passes the bill, like the Socialist Party, the party that voted on 155 and did not want a rapporteur, the PSOE, who these days has explained the peace of the world, with all the « patxor and with all the nature of the world, that there is no separation of powers, that this is not modern and that is no longer port. So this April PSOE has also lost votes in Catalonia. Why am I saying that? So because insulting and undermining institutions and the country has no rewards; and doing the milhomas explaining that you don't take the phone has no rewards either. We won't get into the game of destroying to destroy. President Torra is an integral president. President Tora has already told you a thousand times that about rape. The president of Catalonia has made a type, that is, independence yes, but civically, with the ballot boxes and with the dialog that you yourselves deny us. And I take back the thread of public ethics and the private one that yesterday Congressman Guinó set up in this very rostrum. We ask them to return to politics, we propose them to recover the parliamentary correction, to escape the unjustified personal attack. It is urgent that we regain the balance between divergence and respect. We'll get respect back, but we'll do it from now on. That is why today the Group of Joints for Catalonia will vote that not at the appearance of President Torra, who from the first day of government has always been willing to compare in this Parliament, and you know it. But one thing is to explain yourself and another very different to feed one lie, play the game to a weak, malicious and denigrating report, that crosses all limits [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And that he wants to link a noble cause, such as freedom and the defense of democracy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.191.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.192.0	...with terrorism. Neither terrorists nor violent; so far we can get there. If you say democracy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.193.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're done with the debate, we're calling for a vote. As agreed to by the Board of Spokesmen, we will vote on each of the petitions for separate appearances, all four, beginning with the petition for appearances to inform me of the support he gave to the defense committee of the Republic, the respect for judicial resolutions and the compliance of the constitutional order, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Let's begin the vote on the first request for appearance, which is the one presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The vote begins. This request for appearance was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote for the request to appear so that we can inform you about your relationship with the detainees for the National Audience for presumed membership of the terrorist group and about the presumed knowledge of plans for the names of the "tactic response teams", presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. This request for appearance was rejected by 56 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. We now vote for the request to appear to inform me about the alleged link with possible actions to the Parliament of Catalonia of a group of defense committees of the Republic, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú - Puem. The vote begins. This request for appearance was rejected by 64 votes in favour, 66 against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] And let's now proceed to vote on the last of the petitions for appearance, so as to inform me of his alleged relationship with detainees who allegedly wanted to act against Parliament and its presumed knowledge of the planned plans, presented to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The vote begins. This request for appearance was rejected by 64 votes in favour, 66 against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Proposal for a law amending Law 7/2011 of 27 July 2011 on fiscal and financial measures and Law 20/2000 of 29 December 2000 on the creation of the Catalan Institute of Cultural Industries (continuation)]] [[202-00064/12]] Let us therefore turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the proposed law amending Law 7/2011, of 27 July, on fiscal and financial measures, and Law 20/2000, of 29 December, on the creation of the Catalan Institute of Cultural Industries. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] In the first place, in this debate the leading parliamentary groups will speak, according to the order of entry to the Register, and later the groups that have not submitted papers will speak. And, as agreed by the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen, this turn of interventions will be five minutes for each parliamentary group and, consequently, two and a half minutes for the subgroups. The Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú - Podemos and the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans have presented papers to the joint. It has the first word in place, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú - Puem, the deputy Mrs Concepción Abelán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.194.0	President, Members and Members, Councillor, members of the ICC and people of the world of culture, as we said yesterday, our position on this proposal for law is summed up in two things: there is no solution to the administrative duplication of the management of subsidies that involved the creation of the OSIC and, therefore, we follow with two bodies that agree in terms of competences in relation to economic support policies to cultural managers, and, if we value the need to maintain the ICC as an organ of promotion to the cultural initiative, we also consider it necessary to clarify the organization of the Department of Culture as regards the distribution of economic resources, both so minor. We appreciate the good will of the parliamentary groups to accept that the ICC, through this modification, incorporates the Conca, and also the representation of the workers of the sector, to its general council, as we asked. But beyond that, he should have been able to develop a review of his own law, among other things, to correct the vices that the Union of Accounts detected him in auditing them, with a follow-up of fairly substantial and hard recommendations as to why all parliamentary groups did not require any explanation from the Government. We all share the need to support, accompany, and finance the artistic creation and cultural products that we consider to be strategic as a country, but we do not use the cultural sector to store the bureaucratic gaps and the governance and inopportunity of a government that does not govern and that left culture to the smallest detail and far from the mid-European inversion. To elaborate on research, dissemination and cultural promotion, which are the objectives of the ICEC, has created a model of poorly sustainable cultural policies, which has contributed to the precariousness and to putting more barriers to equity in access to culture, such as artistic teachings and children's and young people's music schools. In this sense, we have raised our point from which a single reading procedure allows us, incorporating a new function into the board of directors, with the aim of incorporating the participation of the sector in cultural policies, in the most strategic sense, and which is the same law of the ICC. Our axes were geared towards better participation, introducing co-production of public policies with the sector, so that strategic decisions and cultural policy remain involved. The improvement of transparency, correcting dysfunctions in the allocation of subsidies, was and continues to feel a need, and access to culture and turning it into a tool of social cohesion, to ensure a public cultural model that prioritizes making culture a tool for the diffusion of values, knowledge and creativity. The emena has not prospered, and it was not enough for us to counter-propose it. The law does not solve the problems of duplicity, transparency and nominative criteria. We agree with saving the ICEC, but there are still important pending issues: what the ICEC should do, as well as with five criteria, in which way it is useful for cultural creators and creators and how to promote access to the culture of everyone. At all events, we will abstain from continuing to demand the government and offer ourselves to the cultural sector to work in the best of public cultural policies, especially to recover the reversal and reverse the retail trade. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.195.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr Hector Amello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.196.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, representatives of the cultural world, if you ask me today whether the cultural industry should have a reference body, I would certainly say yes, that we need it. This was the objective of the creation of the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises, that there was an agency with which cultural enterprises had a direct contact, knew their needs and the particularities of the sector. With the amendments to the Financial Tax Measures Act, the nationalist parties denaturalized the functions of the ICEC – hence the discomfort of the cultural industry – because they asked for an organ with an expert knowledge of cultural policies aimed at the industry. What did the separatist parties do when they realized the error they were making? Put patches on. It has taken eight years – which is said quickly, eight years – to make a small legislative change that strengthens the functions of the ICEC. But – but – these legislative changes do not make it more transparent, nor do they make it accountable for how it is managed, nor do they clarify the criteria for granting aid to the sector and ensure the objectivity and neutrality of the process, when there are reports that both ICEC and OSIC must make a great effort to be more transparent entities. And I ask the nationalist parties: exactly what are they afraid of? We do not share a hundred_per_cent of the ICEC model, and we believe that it needs a rethinking. Above all, the ICCC needs to improve some of its practices, in order to meet the demands of transparency and accountability demanded by citizens today. That is why we have tabled an amendment to Law 20 of 2000, to include an article that obliges the ICEC to be accountable and subject to the necessary public control. This is because the law requires that an annual economic and technical audit be carried out to monitor economic management and its grant activity, as well as to publish on its website a comprehensive annual report on all grants, contracts, agreements and economic aid granted. I will tell you very clearly: we have absolutely no confidence in how nationalists manage public money, absolutely no. And we don't have it because here in Catalonia they have woven one of the biggest networks of corruption, of the corrupt plots, of Spanish democracy. Is this exactly what you are afraid of not approving our amendment? Separatist parties use the tax money of all of us to pay their holidays, to confront the Catalans, to create conflict, to place their friends, to continue talking bad about Spain, and they have also done, of course, and so it is known, to enrich themselves and their friends. Cultural enterprises have been facing great challenges for a decade, and separatist governments have not put it at all easy. Neither did the PP Government nor the Socialist Government make it easy for them to do so. It is very simple to come here, as you did yesterday, and to say that for you cultural enterprises are very important; it is very simple. But where are the resources that cultural enterprises need? The separatist parties dedicate a 0.7, a ridiculous 0.7 to the culture budget, when the sector – and we have done so too – we are claiming a 2_per_cent. In 2008 there were just over 42,000 cultural companies, currently 37,000; in a decade they have let about 12_per_cent of the cultural industry be lost. In 2008, more than 132,000 workers were employed, currently accounting for some 105,000; in a decade about 19 per cent of jobs have been lost. And what do separatist parties do while the cultural industry faces a huge crisis? I say to you: to be obsessed with separating oneself from Spain; that is his greatest obsession. Culture is also an economic engine, which also fulfils important social functions, and is a real lever of social transformation. But the separatist parties show us day after day that culture is not a priority for them. To conclude, first, cultural industries can count – and I tell you from here – with our absolute support. And we will reach out to them to dialogue on cultural and strategic policies that drive the sector. Second. This proposed law to modify the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises will not block it, because it is essential that the ICEC be a reference entity for the cultural industry and undo the mischief caused by the nationalist parties in 2011. And third. We want the ICEC to be legally accountable and subject to strict economic and technical control. And that is why we hope that you will support our amendments. Accountability is a legal duty, but it is also an ethical duty. Don't be afraid. And fourth, and last. We are not going to allow nationalism to practice cultural fundamentalism or to turn the ICEC into a small bar in the service of its partisan interests with which to keep its friends or pay its holidays. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.197.0	Next, and to position himself, has the word, first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.198.0	President, Members of Parliament. A cordial greeting to the representatives of the cultural and creative industries of our country. The Cultural Initiative Support Office is an instrument of the Government for the unified and centralized management of grants and competition aid from the Department of Culture. The Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises, in change, has a much wider scope. The impulse of artistic creativity and production, the distribution and dissemination of cultural contents, the development of cultural enterprises, the promotion of cultural consumption and the expansion of markets among others. In other words, it has the skills to bring forward active public policies, to promote and strengthen the cultural sector. Moreover, it has two governing bodies: the General Council and the Administrative Council, where the different business sectors of the world of culture are represented and, since the approval of the law, today, too, on the part of the Conca and a representative of the workers and workers of creation and cultural enterprises. We are therefore talking about joint work, follow-up, development and co-responsibility. And all this, Members and Members, can't do OSIC, it's not up to OSIC, which, as I said, is an administrative office, which does a very important job, but it's still this, an administrative office of the own department. We're dealing with this. That the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises can continue to operate until now. Another thing is that it has a margin of improvement, that in tea, especially for what it does to the necessary transparency with its various lines of aid in agreed rules, subsidies, reintegrated loans, etcetera, etcetera. And it is true and it has been commented, the later report of the Union of Accounts on the ICC, also to say, is from the year 2012 and 2013, so it has already been a few years, in which it reports a whole series of observations, 17 in total, and 9 recommendations in which it shows the need for better from the points of view of transparency, from the point of view of the compliment of the standards referring to grants and of respect for the principles of competition, merit, capacity and equal opportunities in the granting of aid and subsidies. In this sense, we call for firm commitments from ICC. And if we do not see better in the short term, we have already announced that our parliamentary group will undertake, as it did in its time, for example, with the Conca, the relevant parliamentary initiatives. And, in any case, and the first announcement today, is that we will request the attendance of the director of the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises to the Committee on Culture, precisely to talk about all this. What kind of a fan job? Who's the new scener from taking out this doubt that there was, that was hovering over the IECC? But also to give accounts of the improvements that have been introduced and of the desirability of drawing forward the recommendations and conclusions of the report of the Union of Accounts. The papers presented, both for Catalonia in Comú Podemos, as for Ciutadans, from our point of view, go beyond what they claim this proposal of law. Even so, we believe that we could contradict the fact that we are processing with a single reading process and with an emergency process. Therefore, it is true that the ICC, its law is of the year 2000, so many years ago. Congresswoman Abellan spoke of a review of the law. Okay. Congressman Ameló spoke of repositioning. Okay. But today, that's not what it's about. It's not about that today. It is not a matter of taking advantage of a modification that has a concrete objective, refocusing it 'hot. We could have done that, too, and we don't think that's what this is. It is not done today to validate the performance of the ICEC or the incorporation of changes into the law, it is done to equip it with the necessary instrument and suitable tools so that it can complete the function that it commands for the law. Tears hanging? Yeah, yeah, you've got deures hanging. That's obvious. But, I repeat, today, what it is all about is another thing, to escape doubts, to remove the passage of Damocles that was gliding, that was still gliding, until the law was approved, which, at 31 December, the ICC, for which it does the subject of aid and subsidies, would pass to the OSIC. And once that's done, once that's saved, we think it's going to take place and set ourselves up calmly, with work and with sereneness the necessary analysis of the functioning of the ICC and, in any case, incorporate in it those modifications that we believe that in some case they are necessary, especially after having passed twenty years of approval of their law. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.199.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.200.0	Yes, thank you, President. Simply to position us favourably on this legislative change that will make cultural enterprises able to do the process by means of the ICCI. Taking into account that there is an absolute consensus in the sector. With regard to the exams, we shall be in favour of the exams presented for Catalonia in Comú Puem and we shall abstain from the exams presented for Ciutadans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.201.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Alejandro Fernández. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.202.0	If it doesn't taste hard, I'll be the one who does it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.203.0	As you're familiar with it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.204.0	I recognize the mistake, huh? I know it's gonna make the name of the company easier, but in the end I'll be the one who... To position us. First of all, I need to clarify something, don't I? I also want to make it very clear that the initiative for this bill, which was signed by the parliamentary groups that it was signed, is an initiative that comes from the sector. It is neither an initiative of the Government nor an initiative of the parliamentary groups, but it is an initiative of the sector. Certainly, I would like to say that if the groups who have submitted this proposal for law have consulted with us, they have also signed it. We didn't sign it because you didn't want to consult. But in any case, the sector did address all the parliamentary groups to raise the problem that they assumed that, ultimately, this year, 2020, the forecasts that were made in the year 2011 came into force. And that's the second question. Effectively, 2011 is created the Support Office for the Cultural Initiative. But at the same time, it is said that all those entities that receive aid and subsidies from the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises would not enter this unique grant office, but would do more. And that went on prolonging. These prorogations came back to win at the end of this year 2019. And therefore, the effects of the creation of that office in 2011 should have come into force in 2020, so it does to that which affects the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises. Therefore, if for eight years this has not been done, it means that during these eight years the objections that may have been raised have already been seen so that this was so. And now what's going on is finally ending the prorogations and keeping all those entities that get help and subsidies through the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises between the same scope. He felt it. You've heard it because it's a much more concrete environment. It is an environment that makes it much easier to adjust the needs and address the needs of this sector. That is why we will support this proposal. And all this is on the sidelines of the transparency task and the control task that needs to be done in relation to grants, not just that of the ICC, but also, obviously, the OSIC and any other entity of the Generality that provides aid and subsidies. Thank you. Regarding the... – forgive me, President – respect the papers, announce that we will vote against the threat presented by Catalonia in Comú Pode and we will vote in favour of the threat presented for Ciutadans, which goes precisely in the field of transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.205.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jenn Díaz has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.206.0	Thank you, President. Benvolguts, benvolguts, all of you, counselor. Well, yesterday we went into the matter, and, in order to justify the single reading, as we already defended all our position, for which the proposal of changing the law was necessary, we already defended that the only one we are dealing with is a demand from the cultural enterprises of the country, that we are simply conveying a need of the sector to simplify and optimize the work done. One of the problems with getting out after Congressman Bruguera is that he's already said most of the things we need to say the rest. And we agree that this change in law, in the same way that the Conca, which did not go on reformulating the Conca concept, nor here are we talking about going into more detail about what the ICC is and what the ICC is to do, but about doing a process to end these prorogations, so well, I have a feeling that the papers of the two parliamentary groups went beyond the work that we have come to do. We're talking about the papers today, because we already got into the ICC debate today. For one band, the Ciutadans, as I said, I think there's a need for this to go further than the debate that's near us today and that, besides, there's a point, there's a single vocation, that's that they don't stick together. And I already understand that they're girls, after all, from a point of the ICEC's disenfranchisement, and they're asking for the obligation to look back and do audits. And the complaint and the self-criticism, which we accept and which is necessary, is not solved with this slogan or with this new articulation. Because it's unnecessary for this article, because there's already an obligation to back up, to do audits, to present it to... I got it, I got it. I have what is the joint that calls for these audits and have done so by the legal services of the Department of Culture. So, I don't think this is a better idea or a guarantee of transparency or accounts. And so we will vote against it, although we might be in favour of all institutions being more transparent. And then a little bit of rigor. That this is not about independent parties, nor about independent parliamentary groups, nor is it just about paying parties. Please, a little rigor, which tastes a little hard. It's just that this isn't about independence. Because, in addition, it's a process that we're doing with the Socialist Party and Forward Units and that, in addition, I appreciate from here to Congressman Rodriguez, because I have the feeling that he has, right? That's what we came here to do. And we don't turn this pharystoll into cultural themes, just like with the Conca, and we've already asked for it, in the umpteenth ideological trench. That's not what it's about. In the same line, in the case of Comú Podemos, he also knows a little bit of hard, so they go beyond what he would play today, which is to pass some skills to the ICEC that are close to him, because the OSIC is not the one to do it. And that, besides, they ask for one thing that is not a competence of the ICC, but that, in any case, it is a competence of the Department of Culture and the Government, and the ICC's tasks are one another. Finally, we were pleased, just as when we were dealing with the amendment of the Conca law, that there was a broader consensus on a question that transcends parliamentary groups. Because this, as I said now, is not about parliamentary groups, or ideology, or whether we are independent or not, because the cultural sector is asking for it. I understand that the cultural sector in this country is quite diverse as to why, when we are asked to process and we drive a demand from the sector, they are not suspicious of anything. It's just like the cultural businesses in this country think. They're asking for a process that the deputies and the deputies are going through, and that's not about independence or paying parties. And, as I say, we've been pleased to do it in a more consensual and unified way, but in any case we'll push this change forward. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.207.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francesc Ten has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.208.0	Thank you, President. Members of the Government, members of the ICEC accompanying us, the Director, the Secretary General of the Department of Culture, the Councillor of Culture, representatives of the sector, all very good day... And to the companion and friend, and ex-counsellor, Laura Borràs – who is now, until a very short time ago, there was and now I don't see her –, also cordial and cordial greetings. Look, I'm happy today. That's a little important, but today I'm satisfied... or culturally satisfied. This is more important to me and I wanted to share it with all of you. We have done two legislative initiatives in this legislature for a single reading on cultural issues, and I hope, as has already been announced, that this one has also been approved, as was the previous one of the Conca. I am culturally satisfied, and I say this from the modesty and the greed to advance and work proactively for culture, and I feel little indispensable and little necessary. And, as someone yesterday was exaggerating in one way... partisan, perhaps, to me it seems that this government governs, the legislature and working, as it should not be in another way, accompanying and accompanying the sector. It is important, this, the sum of the sector, of the department, of the Parliament, of the civil society and of the most essential of everything in this chain, and that we have perhaps mentioned a little: of the creators and of the creators, for whom the ICEC, the OSIC, the department is a fundamental and very important piece. We're definitely closing a theoretical gap that was there. The deputy Bruguera has explained well functions of the ICEC, functions of the OSIC, and I said I did not want to enter into a dialectic of ambivalences, because the OSIC has its reps, its protocols, the protocols of excellence, as does the ICEC, and some of them are or can be and will be shared in order to improve and that we all work for the people's services, this is the objective, and for the services of culture. In this second session of the single reading procedure, we have to refer to the papers. To the Ciutadans Group, then, I'd say I don't have to: whatever they're projecting on their own already exists, we already do and we already do. The ICEC has to submit to an activity finance character control, mediating the audit process, and this is being done. The ICEC has an economic control body to finance; therefore, this would be the end of the process in which they contributed. The ICEC remains obliged to forward the annual accounts to the Union of Accounts, and that report of the Union of Accounts – it has been said – is from 2012, and, therefore, it is not as if we were dealing with it as Guadiana, from time to time, to make rumours of "xiringuito; this is not what my company Jenn has explained very well, we are in another tenor. The ICEC must complement the principle of active advertising and publish on the Transparency Portal, of course, the information on calls and the award of grants and public aid, contracts and agreements, and the ICEC produces annually a memo that backs all actions and aid intended for the cultural sector and in advertising to the web. Therefore, we believe that its considerations are unnecessary. What is needed is the essence of its theme, and we share it, that of transparency before, at all times, always. And for what he does to the group of commons, so, look, it seems to me that I read it as a young man to Joan Fuster, that the common sense is the least common sense of the senses, and maybe the common sense in this theme seems to me that I don't... I've had a hard time with his position; it's a mistake, a mistake and sometimes, excuse me, but maybe even a misunderstanding. It seems to me that its aim is to carry out co-production processes on a regular basis, and this is not where it should be. The ICEC Board of Directors has to do other things. The current law already regulates a board of directors in Article 11, and which has the responsibility for strategic plans, strategic markets and strategic sectors in culture is neither the ICCC nor the department; it is the Government of the Generality that has to do so. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Then, in this brand – and to finish – we also accept the linguistics that the technical service, the technicians of the house, has brought to us, and we will vote against the commons as much as Ciutadans's. I feel culturally satisfied, and I share it with all of you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.209.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate ended, the Culture Counsellor, Mrs Maria Ángela Vilallonga, asked for an intervention to make some thanks. He'll advise when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.210.0	Thank you, President. Members, ICEC, representatives of the cultural sector, advisors, in the first place I want to sincerely thank the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia all the work of promoting this proposal of law, and the groups of Republican Esquerra and the PSC-Units, their generosity in adding 'hicom to proposers of this initiative. In particular, I would like to thank the French Congressmen Ten, Jenn Díaz and Rafel Bruguera. I also feel culturally satisfied today, thanks to you. I also want to highlight the positive attitude, from the first moment, and bring them to the debate of all groups in the chamber. [[remorse of the voice]] and cultural sectors...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.211.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.212.0	...involved. I would like to point out that this approval will enable us to maintain and improve the success of the ICEC as the body responsible for carrying out an integral cure for a business sector within Europe that is treated as a unique sector. Cultural entrepreneurship, the creative industry, more than creating wealth in a sustainable way, generating many valuable jobs, is one of the main ambassadors of our country and of our way of being to the world; a creative, innovative and rigorous country with a solid brand. The objective of the Department of Culture is to give personalized and effective attention to each of the areas that conform to our cultural, rich and diverse universe, to attend to the different needs, the different dimensions, with different measures and appropriate to each case. Each situation needs its own tool, and we want to keep the right tools to help all members of this sector as they identify with culture. Moreover, the entry of the Conca and the representatives of the workers in the ICEC Board of Directors will help us to ensure that this cultural policy is still more transparent, more transversal and more plural. We will continue to work in this sense, because culture is a priority for this government. Thank you all very much for the support. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-13-4202.213.0	Thank you. We called for a vote. The voting of the items will be according to the order of entry to the Register, carried by those items that have been traded and that will be voted in later term. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I am informed, indeed, that there are no compromises. We will therefore vote on the proposals as presented. Therefore, we will vote in the first place the issue number 1, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 46 votes in favour, 84 against and no abstentions. And we now vote on item 1, tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 47 votes in favour, 80 against and 3 abstentions. And finally, we are voting now on the rest of the text of the bill's proposal and the joint initiative. The vote begins. The proposed law amending Law 7/2011 of 27 July 2011 on fiscal and financial measures and Law 20/2000 of 29 December 2011 on the creation of the Catalan Institute of Cultural Industries was approved by 87 votes in favour, against and 43 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] There are no more points in the order of the day. Therefore, the session rises.
