ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Question to the Government on the Archius System of Catalonia]] [[300-00089/12]] Let's keep the order of the day. The next point is the inquiry to the Government on the Archius System of Catalonia, an inquiry submitted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. Mr Rafel Bruguera explained the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.2.0	Counsellor, deputies and deputies, president, good morning. Today, the questioner will advise, in a somewhat critical manner, but with a constructive and respectful attitude, and with a predisposition to the maximum possible agreement, on the government's policy in relation to the archive and the management of the documentary, which, from our point of view, for years, does not form part of the government's priorities. With this inquiry and the subsequent motion, we want to lay down some elements to incorporate them into the Pla d'arxius and manage documental, to improve it and at the same time, propose other actions for a more integral management of the conjunction of the Arxius System of Catalonia. The archives are little known and little used for the city, if we compare them, for example, with libraries, museums or theatres. The archives have been linked to the documentary heritage in the past; but the reality is that we don't just talk about historical archives, but about the documentation that is generated every day. We all know that public access to this documentation is one of the premises of the right state, of a mature society. And the archives play it, they have to play a piece of work. In the face of the social call for cleaner, transparent and accessible administrations, and also of the exclusion of the new digital tools, there have been no new measures to facilitate access to information, a good proof is the Transparency Law, access to information, and good governance, of 2014. But this positive development has not been accompanied by a parallel process of modernization of the archives. Some have already changed the xip, screen, as it is now. Of course, the professional archivists, who consider themselves documentary managers, surpassed the ancient concept that they associated only with historical archives and documentary heritage. We ask the advice and the general direction that they change, too, from xip and screen. The Association of Archives of Catalonia complains that there has been a setback in the policies of archives and demands a new policy, restart and revitalize the archives and manage it document. And we, Counselor, share these requests. The 2011 Law of Arxius provides for a system of archives with a powerful direct organ, because it does not only have to enter the culture-friendly archives: the National Archives, the district archives, the support to the municipalities, the assessors, etc.; but also the administered archives of all departments. For example, health system, university, etc. That's to say, the documentary management of the entire Generalitat. Do you think, Counselor, that this can be done with the weak organic structure, only two servants, what does the Directorate General count on? During the progressive and left-wing government there was a general sub-direction of arxius, but in 2011, with all the laws and details, the new government made it disappear. There's a general subdirectory of arxius in the organization chart, but it's not that it's vacant, it's that it hasn't been equipped since 2011. Counselor Puig, in his appearance in Parliament, was compromised and I quote textually: "Has the topic pending from the General Sub-Directorate of Arxius been dislodged, Counselor? We'd love to know. The sector would want not a sub-direction, but a general direction, we know. And maybe not culture, but in a consultancy where you can manage the whole system and document management of the whole organization, from a more powerful, global and cross-cutting position. Most of the joints, the most senior manager is the secretary. The Generalitat is missing this figure. This summer structure, I'd say. And they don't say it's for reasons of austerity and disability content. They have duplicated communication policy makers, for example; they have created a director of the Centre for Contemporary Issues Studies. Therefore, if they want, they can; it is a question of political will. The archive is not a voluntary equipment, such as a museum or a theatre, at least for the municipalities of more than two thousand inhabitants, which for the sector are required to maintain an archive open to the public and with a technical director superior to the front. What is the Culture Council doing to support this obligation? Compare it to libraries. According to local legislation, the library is compulsory in the municipalities of more than five thousand inhabitants. This compulsory competence is fully recognized and accepted, there is a public reading map, approved, that ages for its compliment. And for years, assemblings, deputies and the generality, have sufficed a large network of libraries to compliment this obligation. In the archives, do we have an obligation that looks like, and what has the government done to guarantee this access, this compulsory service? Did you make a map of the archives? Have you deployed policies of cooperation with the deputies and of support to the municipality to guarantee the service? The answer, unfortunately, is no. The municipalities of less than one thousand inhabitants also have archives. So how many municipal archives are there in Catalonia? So, 948; so many with municipis. Of these, 118 have more than two thousand inhabitants. What do we have to do, then? With the rest, with the remaining 838? You don't have to have a file? Obviously, no, impossible, because all together, as small as it is, re and generate documentation. And its inhabitants, they have the right to keep it, and to manage it. And here, we understand that it's where the district archives come in, that together with the deputies, they can play a supporting role to the small municipalities, as the Barcelona City Council has been doing for years, with a template of seven traveling archives. Why in the same way that small municipalities share, for example, secretaries or architects, why can't they share archives? We'll agree that it's much better than that, that we don't have to unpack 'em from the proper documents. We ask you, she advises, to take advantage of this magnificent network of regional archives to design, with the deputies, a strategy of advice, support and provision of services to small municipalities in the field of archives. Beyond the easy solution and error of saving the papers. And in this, local archives and archives can play a phone book. We start from an unquestionable reality: the authentic basis of the Archius System of Catalonia is the Archius Municipals Xarxa. We believe that the council should turn the focus to this reality. In the past few years, there have been many other things, which have not gone well enough in the matter of archives and document management. The Archive Law is not deployed; the Archive System of Catalonia has not been structured; the Archive Census has not been completed and has not been advanced in the creation of the Archive Register. We haven't done the documentary heritage stories, and we don't know the protected or declared documentary heritage. He didn't gamble for impulse and innovation in document management. There's been no map of the archive that marks the law. Nor has a network of archives been created, while the department has – and we celebrate it – boosted the territorial and thematic networks of museums, visual spaces, scenic musical equipment, and more than libraries. The National Council of Archius and Documentary Management, which met four times in nine years, was also missing when it should be done twice every year. He hasn't had much of a conversation with the professionals, either. There is also a lack of a strategic plan for the sector, such as with museums and other sectors of the arts. We know that the work of the Pla d'arxius has begun recently, this past month of disembarkation, we encourage it hard to carry on this plan, with the complicity of the National Council of Arxius, the Association of Archives and the technicians of the sector, especially and above all, of the municipal archives. For what he does to the National Archives of Catalonia, we think that we should give him more autonomy, and management skills, and a pre-eminent role in the system. It requires own legal personality, and equip it with means to provide technical services to the system archive and local and regional networks. In the matter of photography, counsel, the situation is not better. Most of the photographic background – you know it and I know it too – is located in the archive, and it does not seem that the National Photography Plate and the initial proposal – certainly, currently parked – of the National Photography Centre takes into account the opinion of the archive sector. Another theme is acquisitions, such as developing a procurement protocol, from our point of view, from the Catalan heritage fund, because it rules the purchase prices properly and determines their final location. And another reason is to integrate into the dynamics of transparency and access to information, as a consequence of the Law of Transparency, access to information and good governance. At the moment, they have already failed in the first step, not one of the Members elected for Parliament in 2015 to be part of the commission is archive or document manager. And I think that, counsel, we should arrange, at least at the moment, establishing mechanisms for collaboration between this committee and the access committee, evaluation and document tria. In the second intervention I will speak – and I think we would agree – of the issues pending with the Administration of the State for which it does the archive. I sincerely believe, Counselor, that most of the issues I have put before you, we can share..., from our point of view perhaps with the got half empty and you with the got half full, but we can share the analysis and, therefore, the margin of agreement we believe is considerable. As you see, counsel, the archives – and with this I finish – have a lot of recourse and a lot of transcendence. We're talking about a fundamental right of people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.3.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.4.0	...the information, we think it's important, and that's why we asked him this question. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.5.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word "Culture Councillor" has it, when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.6.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My honourable Member, I thank you very much for this question to the Government about a question that is of our utmost interest. Now you're saying that maybe you haven't been the focus of the Department of Culture's policies in the past few years, but I'm starting this answer by saying that I, as the MP, have already been dealing with the professionals in the archives here before I go to the council, just because I'm making this claim. And, from my access to the Council of Culture, there have already been some formal findings, some of which, after all, also with the President of the Generality of Catalonia. And he's already putting himself on the needle. Therefore, I begin by telling you that this concern that you had in case you had not been one of the centers of interest of the policies of the department, at these times you already have a priority attention of the Department of Culture. And besides, I am grateful that the inquiry allows me to make and offer a joint image, a full picture of which is the situation of the Archius System of Catalonia. And I'm sure it won't be hard for us to negotiate and agree to the motion later that your group wants to subdue to the approval of the plenary. Miri, I begin because he has made, on various occasions, in his speech – I have written here – emphasis on the need for collaboration. And it specifically mentioned the collaboration and the importance of collaboration with the deputies, huh? , and has done so on various occasions in his speech, so, sense doubt you are connoisseur of the Order, of the 31st generation, 14/2019, of Culture, for which is created the Council of the Cultural Commonwealth, of which we have just made the public presentation this same dilluns day 4 March, and which coordinates the actions in matter of culture of the Government and of all four diputations. I do not want to extend here now in this principle of efficiency and the exploitation of resources which there is, in the sense of doubt, behind this cooperation organ, because I think that its creation is of great importance as it is to be able to devote – and I hope that we can do this – a monographic session in your Parliament, but I do not want to fail to take advantage of the coincidence in the time of this inquiry and of the presentation just the other day of this Council of the Cultural Community in order to show that once more an exhibition of the concern of this Government with regard to the proper functioning of the coordination of the Archius System of Catalonia passes precisely through this agreement, because we understand that the Arxius Church of Comarcals, which you have also managed from the very same system. Therefore, the effective coordination that through this Council of the Cultural Community we have established will precisely allow one of the functions of this Council to follow the management and the whole age of the Archius Comarcals Network. But let's not confound ourselves – because you already took the photo a little more, and you told me that later on, on the second side, there would be a little more depth – we agree that, unlike other areas of culture that speak or have spread placards that are more visible and more noticing in the eyes of the great public, the most discreet, quieter nature of the archive makes it possible for many times to go unnoticed and good on the part of the citizenry to be unaware of the phonative paper they make at the time of conservation, protection and correct dissemination of the documentation of the whole subject – you are doing precisely from the documentation of the whole – that has been generated by our history, but it is being managed by the computer. In fact, if this is translated into numbers, in figures, the place that would occupy this Catalan documentary heritage, at least in the last question that we have of the Technical Cabinet of the Department of Culture, there are almost 330 archives, between public and private, more than 1_million_of_linear meters of documents, an area of archives of more than 250,000_metres_squares, more than 1,200 workers, 680,000 users who consult 2_million_i_mig of documents annually, and some 375,000 people who participate in the dissemination activities that are related to them. Therefore, when we speak of the Archius System, we actually refer to all those who, according to Law 10 of 2001, form part and which include archives of natural and title, you know, very different: from the archives of the Generalitat, naturally with its archive of capçalera to the front, the National Archives of Catalonia, and also those that conform to this section of Arxius Comarcals, to also the university archives, diocesan or capitular, or to all the archives of provincial diputations. I, however, will focus now, because you have also raised it, in the Archius Comarcals Network, which are these in which we have a direct competence as the Generality. They're talking about the network. And when I'm talking about the network, I think we're talking about – and we also made it work; you've also talked about the museums – to establish a territorial network of the country, and, therefore, that both the museums and the archives function in a cross-linked way, in a narrowed way. And this for two reasons: above all because it obeys the principles of efficiency and allows coordination of these efforts and serve you in a common way, but above all territorial cohesion, and therefore truly national conception of the network. When I came from the country to do acts, both in museums and in archives, I like to explain this view of the country's museum and archaeological panorama, which is unitary. It is to say that I like that we are now completing a network of regional archives that has been conceived, promoted..., that it is of republican nature, because it started in time of the first councillor of Culture of the contemporary Generality, Ventura Gassol, according to which Catalonia would have a great museum and a great archive, and that each of the museums and local or regional archives would function as salt, as space derived from this great equipment, from these great country equipments. This Republican inspiration of the Arxius Comarcals Network began in year 32, and the goal was to have an archive of each region's capital. This past disagreement, for example, I was at Pont de Suert, the Member of Parliament Gallardo accompanied me, and I had the joy of being able to announce precisely the proposed creation of the Regional Archives of Upper Ribagorça, which, if the forecasts are complete, will be completed by 2021. We have already approved, as in the government, in the last run of the past year, the creation of the Garrigues District Archives, to the White Borges, with the commitment already acquired to create this archive of the High Ribagorça. And with these two we're just culminating in this Arxius Comarcals network that started now for the next few years. We will certainly have to study what happens, to complete this network of archives, with the new Moianès region, which legally constituted 2015 and which we currently have its needs covered, even though it will be necessary to keep it present in the future, but we will also lack that the State completes with the obligation it has for the law to build the district archives of Barcelones, which, while naturally, is the national archive that does these functions, since we do not have this equipment. The same way that happens with the territorial networks of museums, our conception of the country's regional archives, precisely because we articulate them in the form of a network, must have this coherent and coherent conception. But to talk about the network..., I was very pleased that you made it about, precisely, the problems that today have the archives precisely derived from the large amount of documentation that digitally is generated today and that needs and requires this administrative articulation that is generated in the network. We have a very good digital greeting, and we hope we can still have it better. If you look in the search engine of the Department of Culture for online archives, you will see the intense digitalization task that is taking place in the field of archives, so that any city from its home, making remote users of the archives of Catalonia, can consult directly those archives that are digitized or well located quickly where they are. Therefore, in addition to these needs of our time, we are trying to give so much, from one band, to the vertebration of a project of national archives, which is the Archius Comarcals Network, as..., for another band, we assume the reptes and administrative needs that are derived from digital archives that are naturally indispensable in our day-to-day life. I look forward to your next intervention to give it, to take a more complete picture of it, and to be able to talk about the phone book you play, as well as what I've thought about it now, the National Archives of Catalonia as a leader's archive and the restructuring that within the Department of Culture of the Generality..., we're about to do a restructuring of the department where these needs will be met for what it does to the coordination of the arxius system. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.7.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the return, again, of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.8.0	Thank you, Counselor, for all of you. I want to begin this second intervention, as I said, by addressing an aspect that I think we would agree, that is not to let go of the contentious old ones that we have pending with the Administration of the State. I know that you have met with the minister, and I welcome it, and that there is a predisposition to the dialogue and agreement, which has reiterated to him the need to complete the journey of Salamanca's later papers that are still pending. That's what he knows we'll always be next to him. They have also, of course, addressed other issues such as MNAC, Liceu, Palau, Sixena, etc. But in the matter of archives, which is what we are interested in today, there are aspects pending with the ministry that we at least believe to be important: the Provincial Historical Archives of Barcelona, the investments pending to build the new Historical Archives of Girona and the modernization of the one of Tarragona. We also have the Arxiu de la Corona d'Aragó pending. The additional provision of the Statute marks the way for us, says: « The foundations close to Catalonia located in the Arxiu de la Corona d'Aragó and the Arxiu Reial of Barcelona integrate into the Arxius System of Catalonia. The Generality has to work with the Arxiu de la Corona d'Aragó Board, with the other autonomous communities that have shared funds and with the State by means of mechanisms that are mutually agreed upon. We are prepared, she advises, to start a new stage, starting in the summer, to address together with the rest of the affected autonomous communities, with dialogue governments in Aragó, Valencia and the Islands – if all is well, let's hope so – the management of this archive located in Barcelona and which is of state ownership. In the following motion I will talk about approximately all the themes that I have outlined in the two interventions, from the development of the archive system to the consolidation of the National Commission of Access, Evaluation and Documentary Tria, passing through the themes pending with the State, etc. You spoke, Counselor, of 350 archives. Well, yeah, 350 or three hundred and I'm out. Well, the truth is, there's a lot and a lot of it, because, as I said, there's not 838 municipalities in Catalonia, is there? Therefore, many and many are missing. Respect for the Cultural Commonwealth, all right. I welcome the fact that, whether it is on its own initiative or through the question I am asking you today, one of the themes to be discussed in this Council of the Cultural Community, will also address together with the members the issue of local archives, so many of the municipalities of more than one thousand inhabitants, which are the ones that have the obligation to do so, such as those of fewer than one thousand inhabitants, which we believe is also essential. Look, you've made an intervention... and actually you've seen the little bit full and I see the little bit empty; in the background I would say that the speech we share it, but the problem is not this, the problem is that, well, how do we do it to put black on white? How do we preach and give wheat, huh? That is, therefore, what I am saying to him, he will advise, is that, with the utmost willingness to cooperate, we will propose a whole series of measures in the inquiry that will follow this..., in the motion that follows this inquiry, which I hope to agree with and especially with the parliamentary groups that support the Government. I'm aware, I'm fully aware, that you can't do it all at once, that you can't do it all at once, that you have to prioritize and that you have to schedule. Okay. What we propose to you, counsel, is to plot a path; through the motion following the inquiry, to plot a global path, a full path with as much agreement and consent as possible, given that we share the background of the speech, for the better of the conjunction of the archives of our..., the system of archives and the documentary management of our country. That's our guy, that's what we wanted to do. We've been working on this theme for many and many months now. Therefore, this inquiry and the motion are not only a product of my parliamentary work, but of many people who have helped us, who have brought ideas and to whom I would like to thank that we have a document that seems to us to be interesting in contrasting it with the concrete policies that are behind the Department of Culture and, in this sense, to mark this full road to improve the Archius System of Catalonia and to document management. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. It's the Councilwoman's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.10.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Congressman, you're asking me how we do it and how we put thread in the needle. And, in fact, I like that you're already worried about this, because we've already told him that we're working. From the outset, I'll tell him that we've made it count, naturally, as it couldn't be otherwise, with the specialists and deploying the Pla d'arxius. The Pla d'Arxius is of fundamental importance because it has to be the logbook that has to allow us to move into this land and make it with the specific needs that we have today. This is the central role of the legislature in the matter of arxius on the part of the Government; it is intended to give the government an orderly and consensual response to a sector that is complex because of its diversity, because of its abyss, because of the scarcity of resources, which we all know is one of the main problems, but above all in a process of vertiginous change, which involves our paradigm, in which we live, the digital paradigm. Just the Pla d'arxius and documentary management of Catalonia, which we approved at the government meeting of 11 September 2018, so that it is already an act of this government, is conceived as a cross-cutting and participatory project, and that we will develop it during this year 19 and 20. The impulse from the Department of Culture, through the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage, and with the participation of the Departments of Presidency and Digital Policies and Public Administration. Therefore, what we have done, and I recommend that Twitter follow the hashtag # tenimunpla, because with the hashtag # tenimunpla is where we are doing this participative work, the debate tables, at this time have already participated more than three hundred people, have done, since the generation month of 2019, the call for eight debate tables estesses throughout the territory, in which the headlines, the leaders, the professionals, the companies and the associations of the field of archivistics and all their own fields have been called. At these times we have, therefore, three hundred people in specific jails, eight territorial jails, debating this Pla d'arxius y de gestion documentaire de Catalunya. And, therefore, in May, the work that will be collected from all these tables of debate... will be convened by a panel of experts to collect this diagnostic and to establish what the essential lines and contents of this plan will be. Therefore, at the end of 2019, when the documents are drawn up, we will, in addition, open a process of civic participation and the strategic plan 2021-2024 will be approved in the next quarter of 2020. So, what do we do? We're already working with the sector, I'm already telling him that he's summoned these paintings and that I recommend the hashtag, because they're doing a lot – a lot – of good work. About ho fem, too. So, you talked about the relationship with the state. Indeed, talking and complaining; I feel firm in the complaint that it is a requirement that I return to Catalonia or that I settle down definitively and find a fit in this Arxiu de la Corona d'Aragó, which was one of the first themes that I also put on the table to the minister, is a delicate issue, but I think we can resolve. Also for what he does to the Provincial Archives of Barcelona, which is the competence of the State, and also to solve the issue of the Historical Archives of Girona. But about the many and many archives – because I was talking about 330, and you say there are many more – it is obvious that, you already pointed out, municipalities with fewer than two thousand inhabitants are not obliged by law to have a municipal archive. So, these 826s, huh? We think there's a lot of local archives that do this job, and so we're already working on it. The Cultural Community must allow a greater order of these questions to take place. But, this band, we just created the National Archives sections of the National Archives of Catalonia. When a private archive can be set up as a section of the archive it means that it does not fit or territorially leave its space, but, in change, it integrates into the Catalonia Archive System and we incorporate the iron handles, the own methodologies of the archives. That's what we did on this last board of the government of the Tuesday, we approved the sections of the National Archives, which also helps us to work a lot. But also from the digital point of view I will tell you that we are so concerned about the issue that the Director General of Heritage has joined as a voice of the two collegiate organs, claus in the matter of the Law of Transparency and good governance, for which he does the archive. And I'll leave it here. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.11.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Government inquiry into enterprise and occupation in relation to the process]] [[300-00094/12]] The next question is about the business and occupation in relation to the process, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Mr José María Cano explained the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.12.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, advisers, Members, Members of Parliament, very good morning to everyone. Today's question, Madam Councillor, as your title indicates, is a reflection on the serious consequences that the process is having on the Catalan economy, on our businesses and on employment. It is clear, and in this all the analysts agree, that the main problem facing the Catalan economy and that the difference between other prosperous regions of Europe is the so-called process in which we are immersed. Catalan companies are forced to endure, manage, anticipate and try to counter the damage you, separatist politicians and your eternal process. I have no doubt that in the near future the process will be studied in universities and business schools as a destructive political system for society and the economy. And from the economic point of view they will study it as a clear example of how irresponsible politicians, appealing to identities, appealing to a glorious past theoretician and activating the most destructive of emotions manage to damage the economy of one of Europe's most prosperous regions. And unfortunately, what is still to be seen is how far you are able to damage the Catalan economy by playing with the future of our fellow citizens. And this interpellation that we present today, with its subsequent battery of proposals, which we will address via motion, is another attempt to alert you of this raw and sad reality. It is one more attempt, I tell you, to alert them, which I will not tire of; I will continue to insist, because what they put at stake, in short, is the well-being of Catalans. Look, of course, it is obvious to say that the world is moving forward and that we are experiencing the effects of globalisation and new technologies on both the business fabric and the labour market. We see that Europe is starting not to be at the forefront of the current digital revolution, and the European Union's reports are already warning us that we have run out of favourable tail winds we have had in recent years and that we are beginning to be immersed in a phase of gradual deceleration. We are faced with a possible Brexit, without agreement, of which they should take good note of the effects of populism; we are faced with a trade dispute between China and the United States; we see instability in Turkey or Venezuela, and we witness the growing indebtedness of the whole of Europe. And in the face of these changes that require major reforms, you are completely blocked, immersed in that hamster wheel full of self-congratulation which is called ‘processes, anchored in a year, in 1714, and dedicated to raising borders where at present there are no borders. While the future and progress go through the opposite: they go through more union and more Europe. They should be aware that this process has disused them to launch and lead active policies for the benefit of progress and citizens. They are unable to lead the changes that companies need. And it is the monotheme that leaves them no time to address the actions that would really benefit our business fabric, where their symbolic acts consume all their energy, have become true slaves to their continuous performances, and all that does not leave them time to lead the necessary reforms. Moreover, as a team, let me tell you, you are not able to deal with anything other than the process, as you are, in short, the Pretorian guardian of the process. In fact, they have been specially chosen only for that, to entangle themselves in the monotheme, and so they do not devote time to the reforms that both the Administration and the institutions need. That's why their policies are weak. This is why they do not promote productivity or competitiveness. That's why they don't lead energy improvements, Catalonia is on the line of renewable energies. That is why they do not implement effective equality policies. That is why we have a totally inefficient SOC that does not adapt to changes in the labour market. This is why the Catalan Institute of Finance lacks usefulness and transparency in granting credit to small businesses. This is why they are unable to lead an hourly reform when, according to studies, work reconciliation is the main concern of workers when looking for work. And that's why they don't bet on research and development in their budgets; as a matter of fact, to say that investment – as a percentage of the Generalitat's budget – in research and development is lower than that of Madrid and the European average, and is very far from the 3_per_cent, which is the European 2020 objective. And to this blockade joins another of the lethal elements of the process: the waste of public resources and mismanagement. A daily opening of chiringuitos nourished from a large list of fingered charges, « scienteurists, that is, all of them, and obviously that waste diminishes resources to the state of well-being. That waste is social cuts. This waste involves less investment in research and development. That's a waste of public resources, which I have to remind you that they belong to everyone. And there is still a more cruel, even more damaging part of the process, which is that which they provoke with their lack of common sense, with their lack of responsibility, with their lack of respect for the law, with their lack of respect for the legal system and the institutions, with their constant promotion of legal instability. Their actions, declarations and decisions have negative effects on businesses and employment, with different levels of intensity, where the highest levels of intensity occur when passing through and the laws are skipped. And it is that its process has associated a false account with clear harmful effects on society and on the Catalan economy. It is a story that is based on a simplistic system of good and bad, where the bad is everything that sounds like Spain. And to feed that story they dedicate all their efforts to discrediting Spain, to constantly talking bad about our country, and that affects, Madam Councillor, Catalan companies. Madam Councillor, I hope you agree with me that speaking ill of Spain harms our trade with the rest of the autonomous communities. As you know, Catalan companies sell more to Aragon than any other country in the world. Do you not really realize that businesses in Catalan companies have to make great efforts to try to counter all these statements every time they visit their customers? Another of its pearls: to call the rest of the Spanish thieves, which is one of the expressions, from the ethical point of view, more disgusting and more insolidary that could be heard and that they have taken from the trunk of the memories and constantly repeat it in each of the plenarys, when you know that, in Catalonia, as in the rest of Spain, we contribute with our taxes according to the level of income and we receive services per inhabitant and needs. Are not elements of the state of well - being and of democracies a system with progressive taxes that fosters equality and solidarity? Well, that Spain steals from us, that falsehood, damages our image and damages our economy. Nor does he realize that filling the beaches with yellow crosses and the streets with ties harms tourism or harms businesses and damages employment? Are you not aware that regularly setting up their so-called "country strikes, which are nothing other than government strikes, acts which prevent the free movement of people and goods, harm trade, business, employment and families? And what do you think of the fact that your ANC partners promote corporate boycotts and make lists of good companies and bad companies? Do you not believe that this is also part of the process and harms Catalan companies? All these actions, declarations and policies that form the so-called process obviously harm Catalan companies and employment. And all this disaster had its sharpest moment when they decided to throw directly down the middle road and skip the laws. From that moment on, almost five thousand companies, those that could afford it, have implemented their contingency plans and have moved their head office. This is a defence mechanism against the threats of the situation that you provoke with the process, and above all against the fear of a possible exit from the European Union. And many companies are doing what they are doing is canceling and paralysing their investments in the face of the legal uncertainty they provoke, starting to choose to invest in other locations. Catalonia has been in foreign investment for over a year and a half. Do they not really reflect on the effects of the process, when they have expelled more than five thousand companies? Companies that, according to a report from the same company that you hire to analyze the flight of companies, represent a billing volume of more than 83,000_million_of_euros; 83,000_million_of_euros of billing that have seen how their head office, that is, the physical site where the council meets and where it makes its decisions, has ceased to be located in our autonomous community to be in Madrid, Valencia or Aragon. Madam Councillor, it is clear that the process only brings us crisis and hence the meaning of our questioning today and of the battery of proposals that we will present in our motion. The process at this time is the main problem facing our society, our businesses and employment, and you are ultimately responsible for this situation. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.13.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, to answer the question, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mrs. Maria Àngels Chacón, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.14.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, counselor, MPs, MPs... Mr Cano, I don't think it's a question anymore whether the gout is half full or half empty; I think it's that they don't want to see either the gout, they don't want to see it or they don't want to see it. You spoke to me first of the context, to which you referred yesterday also in one of my responses to questions, of this new context; you perfectly analyzed..., because we are perfectly aware, of the trade dispute between the taxes, trade restrictions imposed by the United States with Asia, Brexit, the encouragement of the European economy..., we are fully aware. This is precisely why we are acting with certain strategies. And we are very and very aware of this global environment, also of this new context where technology has an exponential evolution..., which we position. And that's why we lead more than ever the attraction of tech companies; and I can't say a few, why, since you're giving data... Mirin, we have Now, ABB, Amazon, Criteo, Dynatrace, e-Dreams, Facebook, Ficosa, Markem-Image, Media Markt, Microsoft, Moodle, N26, Setelogic, Siemens, etc. They are companies that have staked for Catalonia, to implement in Catalonia their centres of excellence, their centres of engineering of high added value, etc. And it's also because we're well positioned and because we're doing strategies in this new context that we're covering world-leading events, like the ISE, the new thread we'll have in Catalonia two years from now, which is the Integrated Systems Europe. The Mobile World Congress brings us about 115,000 visitors, huh? , during each of the editions; this alone fire, which is now taking place in Amsterdam, will bring more than eighty in the audiovisual sector. We also have an audio-visual conference, including the video games sector, in which we are already working with the director of this event, Mr Blackman, for all the contents that must also be reversed in the business fabric. Imagine if we go badly, that we attract foreign investment of high added value, that we attract events of world reference; that unfortunately we are! And that's what we need to combine with other actions we have and other data. Look, you were talking, like you can't be otherwise, always, with this catastrophic report, denying the evolution of our economy, so you said you don't even see the gout; I'll talk to you about some data. The year 2018, Catalonia's GDP increases by 2.6_per_cent; the year of Espanya, by 2.5_per_cent. We're not that bad. Industrial GDP in Catalonia the year 2018 stands at 21,4_per_cent; in Spain, at 16 – 21,4 against 16_per_cent, industrial GDP. Industrial production in Catalonia increased last year by 0.8_per_cent; in Spain, by 0.7_per_cent. The weather – the weather – as he spoke of occupation: we closed the year 2018..., in Catalonia, a 11.5_per_cent; in Spain, a 15.3_per_cent. Therefore, in GDP, in industrial GDP, in maturity, the data are positive if we compare them with Spain. They're objective data, I don't make them up, I don't make them up, they're purely objective data. Following on from this new open context, I repeat a thousand and one times, the policies of this department seek to boost the innovative, inclusive, sustainable and open productive economy in the world, and open to the world we are. And precisely in this sense, as you will not do so, so, our strategy of internationalization..., these more than forty Offices of Action – which maybe, I don't know, if it was for you that we might have already closed them – have completed this year on the thirtieth anniversary. Through these offices we have not only helped to internationalize the Catalan economy, we have also helped to attract foreign investment – 20 % of the foreign investment that is made to Catalonia from these offices – but we are also helping, as I say, the internationalization of new technologies. That's why, and a few days ago he also explained, that some of these Offices of Action, of Catalonia Trade & Investment, evolve into a new stage that is called "Exponential Catalonia", because we want to be active also in this new environment of disruption. And so hardly should this strategy of internationalization of enterprises be done when the Financial Times Group – you will say to me: "It is a private group; well, yes, but there are competitions, therefore, territories all over the world – in our school as the best area of southern Europe we invest more than 4_million inhabitants, we recognize as the best strategy of capturing investments, and, among other things, the strategy of capturing investments that we are realizing is also recognized for other territories, such as the Basque Country, which is also on multiple occasions assisting in foreign investment issues. So badly they shouldn't be doing it. The gross foreign productive investment in Catalonia in the third quarter of 2018_has been 845,4_million euros, 56,7_per_cent more than the same period of the year 2017. In foreign investment data, although the evolution, I recognize it, has not been as accelerated as before, so it has also been very positive. All this set of data, which, I repeat, you will give me some other, but those that I have just expressed to you I believe are irreversible, totally objective, showing the results of the application of the new strategies, of our strategies. And we combine it, precisely because we want to prepare ourselves for this new context, with legislative activity that we are preparing since we are in government, as it is – and I said yesterday – the law of science to give a new environment, a legal framework to the activities of researchers, especially in this new knowledge-based economy; also with the law of emerging enterprises, technology and disruption; and also with the law of energy transition, etc. You said that if I had said "thieves, I'd say, no? The rest of the Spanish. Miri, never – never – will have heard of me saying that Spain or the Spaniards steal from us, never will have heard of me. Now, you will hear many and many times that we have a fiscal deficit that we need to recognize, that affects us, that also conditions us in the execution of our strategies and policies. Of fiscal deficit, yes; of thieves, no, you won't feel me talking. You spoke of a boycott. You've never heard of a boycott, of a boycott. It's more, expressly, in some interviews, I said I didn't agree to boycott. We are in a global economy, I said before, open to the world. What does it mean to talk about a boycott? I do not defend or agree with any kind of boycott, with any product or company in the Spanish State, with any Italy, with any America, with any England. Not the boycotts. We're in a global economy, I'll repeat it a thousand times and whatever. With regard to the flight of companies, the transfer of companies, I have also referred many times. This move is accelerated by the decree of 6 October 2017, which was, therefore, a means to facilitate the adoption of social transfer agreements, so that it does not have to pass through the business assemblies and the management boards, therefore, speed up this process. As we are aware, we admit it, there has been a transfer of their social. I also ask them and I did, and I have explained many times, what kind of businesses have moved and how we put them in value, one, which has not significantly affected the production plants, the occupation, and in this sense also taught them, when we see that there is a setback, which begins to lower the trajectory of their socials, coincides with the government's entrance. Therefore, during 155 we have this maximum movement of entrepreneurs moving their social, and it has now become normal. So, so, so badly, I said, we should not be doing it, if we have positive indicators that we endorse and, apart from, we also have international recognition of our business policies. We'll keep talking on the second comeback. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. The answer is the deputy's comeback.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.16.0	Thank you, President. Madam Counselor, unfortunately, you, like the entire government, do not answer for reasons and continue with a misrepresentation that does not even pass a minimum test of common sense. I have given you a battery of arguments that clearly show how the process is harming the Catalan economy, businesses and employment. You're talking to me about the past, you're talking to me about looking at your navel, you've told me about future projects that you've never just realized, you're talking about the Financial Times, that one day we'll address the Financial Times, how you get the information, how you publish it, and where you get all that data; if you look, whenever you talk about economic forecasts, you talk about Financial Times data. And it is common sense, and so does the citizenry, that you, being focused only on the monotheme, are not able to do anything else, you are not able to implement the necessary reforms to meet the present and future challenges of our economy, and obviously you have not done so in recent years, in which the environment has been favourable; I was talking to you about those favourable tail winds that we have not taken advantage of, while you have dedicated yourselves exclusively to the process. And to that inactivity must be added waste, as I said, and mismanagement, which therefore amounts to cuts and lack of investment. And all of that ends up generating social rupture and legal insecurity. See, 'Spain robs us, in short, of the fiscal deficit, it is a euphemism to say that there are other parts of Spain that take our money. Talking about spolio, deficit or stealing from us is exactly the same and the message is the same. It is an insolidary fact, without demonstrating why they argue that there is that deficit. Because what is obvious is that when you threaten to jump the laws are generating legal insecurity, and it is clear that when you speak bad about Spain you are harming Catalan companies. Look, BBVA Research estimates in more than thirty thousand jobs that have ceased to be created because of the process, as a direct result of the uncertainty and political tension they generate. A clear example is the loss of the European Medicines Agency or the staff, too, of the decision-making centres that have moved to other autonomous communities, together with the change of head office. In the period from 2012 to 2016, the employment growth rate of the Community of Madrid is higher than that of Catalonia in more than 4_per_cent. Our autonomous community, as you said, was growing above the average of the whole of Spain, until in 2018 that growth of the higher GDP stagnates and goes below that average. And that trend continues today, finding us with a slowdown in Catalonia that is being much faster than in the rest of Spain. Organizations such as Funcas or the Barcelona Chamber of Commerce themselves, entities clearly not suspected of being Citizens, expect that this negative trend will continue this 2019, with GDP growth estimates of 2_per_cent, when the forecasts for the whole of Spain are higher. And the main indicators of the industrial sector also warn us that our economic slowdown is being more intense than in the rest of Spain : orders for industrial products are falling, with a drop of almost 4_per_cent; the registration of industrial vehicles is also falling by 2,9_per_cent; electricity consumption in the industry is falling; the corporate confidence index has also fallen, and capital invested in newly created companies is falling. Catalonia is increasingly less competitive, Counselor. According to the industrial competitiveness index drawn up by the European Commission, Catalonia ranks 153 out of a total of 263 regions, 11 below the previous analysis, which was three years ago. And the Regional Competitiveness Report in Spain 2018, prepared by the General Council of Economists, suspends Catalonia in areas as significant for competitiveness as the institutional environment and business efficiency. This lack of competitiveness has multiple effects; one of them is the decline in the industrial output index, which in 2018 has decreased by 10.8_per_cent, according to the Idescat. And in order for Catalonia to have a competitive economy, which produces goods and services of greater added value and generates greater future well-being for its citizens, it has to improve significantly in the number of innovative enterprises, it has to increase investment in research, development and innovation, it has to improve the efficiency of the system of support for innovation and improve the mechanisms of technological transfer, as evidenced by the Pact for Industry. And in the meantime, as I was telling you, it has caused foreign investment in Catalonia to take more than a year and a half to decline. With the data in hand, Catalonia has gone from being the locomotive of Spain to being in the queue car, conseller. I was telling you, and you know it, almost five thousand companies have already fled, with a turnover of more than 83,000 million euros. What else do you need to do, Madam Counselor, to realize that you have to change this course? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.17.0	It's the Councilwoman's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.18.0	Let's get back to it; let's go back to the catastrophic report, to the negative data... I, in fact, the advice that goes out of the foreign investment capture departments, because, listening to you, it's to get out currents, in fact. Miri, about job data, you talk about BBVA Research... I'll tell you the same thing: attur, year 2018, closes Catalonia with 11.5_per_cent; in Spain, with 15.3_per_cent. I'm talking about negative growth trend. I spoke to him before the deceleration of the economy at European level; it also affects Spain. We need rigor: when we talk about data, let us also compare them to the Spanish State, let us compare them to Europe, let us compare them to the euro area. I'm talking about enrollment, descent from enrollment. It's obvious he's going to go down the registration number. I said yesterday, we are talking about the automotive industry, which is evolving towards the mobility industry. The same SEAT, the same SEAT company has said that it will have to gradually stop saying that it manufactures cars to say that it manufactures mobility solutions. It's obvious, it's a general phenomenon, it's not just happening here in Catalonia. From European indicators, I recommend that you also read the European Innovation Scoreboard. It's also neutral, huh? , is of the European Commission. It places us very well and perfectly in the themes of innovation. I do not repeat the topic of stealing, which, for many times I say, is not true. I've never talked about thieves. Tax deficit, yes. Why? Because I demand for Catalonia, therefore, the necessary entrances to face the challenge it has to face. I'm not talking about stealing; don't use those words that we don't use. On the subject proceed. I would say to him: the process, this evil process, according to you, is dealt with and it is an action, I understand, of legitimate policy to exercise the right of our citizens to give their opinion on the future policy of their country. It's a right – it's a right – a right to vote. And, look, we could be up and down, arguing... I can hear – I can hear – that according to the criteria of political opposition you persist in this catastrophic discourse, in the negative data of the evolution of our business fabric. I can hear it. What I can't hear or admit is that I never, absolutely ever, speak of the actions of our economy, of the actions of our business fabric, of, as I said before, actions that help to position our economy and the uptake of investments. I do not understand that ever in speaking, that not a word to speak in favor of the Catalan economy. Not one. I've never heard of Catalonia as an attractive territory for investment, coming from you. They have never spoken of one of the goodies of our economy, which has them. Therefore, we consider that doing business is also making country. Miri, we're going to go on business, we're going on country. Your vagina is making catastrophic speeches. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the balance of a year of political inaction]] [[300-00095/12]] The next question is about the balance of a year of political inaction, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The honourable Member, Ms Lorena Roldán, explained the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.20.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillors, councillors. Well, the week you're going to be doing a year before Mr. Torra was screened president of the Generalitat..., May 17, 2018, concretely. Parliament had three months already closed, and then we saw the foreplay of what would come after: a year of blockage, a year of governance and a year of more process. To be honest, I'll say I'm not surprised, because, in fact, from Ciutadans we've warned him already from the beginning. You don't come here to rule, no, no. And so much good we've been wrong. But we all know the wrong way, we know their lies, and we're right. And you didn't actually come here to rule, nor did Mr. Torra come to be president of all Catalans. In fact, the first one to confirm it was the same Mr. Torra immediately after being named: only one day after his possession, one day, eh? After only twenty-four hours, Mr. Torra went to Berlin. To what? So to file there before that person he considers to be the legitimate president of Catalonia, a runaway gentleman and a gentleman to whom it seems very good to vacate the CDRs, huh? Disinfecting with laissez-faire where we're going. That's what Mr. Torra says he's the president. Torra already warned that his mandate was a temporary one; he said it was provisional. Home, I, sooner, more than saying it's an interim warrant, I'd say it's a stand-by warrant, wouldn't I? , a mandate to lose opportunity, a mandate, if I may say so, to see them come. Because you don't rule, no, you only react when you already have the problem about, late and poorly, correcting, on the march, as Mr. Torra himself recognized last week when he was talking about the VTC decree, huh? ; said Mr. Torra: "Clearly, the Mobile was coming and we had to do something. It's too late and too late. Of course, speaking of decrees, it seems that you have also found it, so it appeared to this figure. That's right, little they do, little they do, little they do, little they do, little they do, little they do, little they do, little they do, little they do, little they do. Yesterday we were here with two decrees, the Councillor for Social Affairs did not announce another in the control session, and today we have published another for living measures. Why? Because you don't have a project. Or, his government action could be summed up in: no fans, so much for some pifia and, above, the fan through decrees of law, of the bill to Parliament, without which we can debate. I ask myself: "What if you plan? What if he gets to the problem? I think it shouldn't cost them that much, because a lot of these problems have caused them to you. Or go on, don't wait for the meths to summon them a wave – the meths, the masters, the moves, the bombers... –, don't wait, they act before. In fact, there could be the same gains that you have on TV3, which you have in creating "parallel xiringuits to the band of these institutions, of ours, of the Parliament, in creating places of work for your friends, the fugitives of justice, because they cover a mortar... If you have the same energy in the rest of things, it would be much better for us. It's all the more thanks to you that you're sorting out the mechanism of the law decree, huh? , which is the government's unilateral imposition mechanism. Clearly, it's you who are ours, ours. Yeah, yeah. How they would like to be able to do and undo without having to give explanations, without having to hold back. I feel disappointed in them, however, as much as they intend, as much as they want to silence us, as much as they are in this Parliament, we will not fail to make our pocket out of opposition, and that is precisely why we are asking questions like today. The Parliament has been closed for months; first, because you did not intend to form a government; second, because you did not want to abide by the Supreme's judgment with respect to the Members who are being prosecuted, and now the last reason with which the Parliament has shut down is because you, therefore, have considered yourself more likely to go to the trial of the process in accounts to comply with its obligation, that is to come here to work for the interests and rights of all Catalans. You have not had any inconvenience in interpreting the Rules of the House at your convenience; you have not had any inconvenience in leaving fellows and deputies at the doors of a committee. And during this term, they have dedicated themselves to trying to supplant this chamber. It's been more than a year since this Parliament has worked normally. On September 6th and 7th, you went to this institution badly, and what you have done so far does not help to improve it. How much effort and resources have you put in creating these parallel structures that you are trying to supplant Parliament! How much effort! The commission of 155, the Civil and Political Rights Office, even the party table. And the question of the million, Mr Bosch: all that helps us? Is this what it takes to sneak the waiting lists to the toilet? Is it necessary to improve infrastructure? Do these parallel syringuites serve to attract investors, to regain coexistence in Catalonia? Serve? Why maybe what they're supposed to do is start pushing bills from the government, which is their pocket, huh? Maybe you should start looking for consensus. Perhaps they could set aside the propositions of law that from my group and from other groups also from this chamber, from opposition, we have presented and that carry months waiting to be processed. This Parliament has or, better said, had a half-hour of reading in the year. Do you know how many we're wearing in this legislature? An approved law, the suppression of the County Council of Barcelones, and three modifications of laws that already existed. So that's four, four counting that way, well, because three of them already existed, they're small modifications. Therefore, we are talking about a legislative activity of about 80 per cent under the middle of the thirty-eight years– thirty-eight years–, which is said aforesaid, Mr. Counselor. Not to mention, they didn't make you or the law more important, the law of assumptions. You should have submitted the draft assumptions on October 10th of last year. We're on March 7th and we're still waiting. You've practically spent one hundred and fifty days, 148 to be exact; 148 days in which you, therefore, have had time to go to Belgium, to go to Lledoners, that the Lord will return to make a tour of the United States, there, speaking ill of Spain, eh? They've found all the time to write a twenty-and-a-one embarrassing demands they're talking about – oh, surprise! – only from his day. All right, all right, And I'm going back to ask: Some of these twenty-one points that you have devoted time to, on those hundred and forty-four days that you haven't presented the assumptions, some of these points serve to reduce the waiting lists to sanitation or dependency? It is that, Mr. Bosch, the data we have are worrying, and some are telling: eleven_thousand dependents who have died without being helped by them, about a thousand people waiting for a place of residence in Catalonia – a half five years because they give you a place of residence–, one_of every four children in Catalonia living in a situation of poverty or social exclusion. In the last four years, do you know how many euros you have allocated to the Bressol schools? I don't think the calculator's up: zero, not a cent. We still feel the citizens... the Catalans are the Spaniards that we pay the most taxes on the autonomous tram, the one that depends on you, huh? Certainly, we presented a bill to reduce the income tax, the IRPF, and you presented a statement to the totality, you presented a statement to the totality. Why? Because they have no desire to stop taxing Catalans. More things than helping, for example, Catalans to have more money in the butxaca: our law proposal for the free text books, which we have not been able to debate either; we have not been able to debate it and, moreover, it is that Together for Catalonia and the Republican Left have presented an issue to the whole. Catalonia presents the worst waiting lists to the toilet. According to the latest data we have, on June 30, 2018, there were almost 155,000 people waiting for an operation. Catalonia also has the lowest numbers of waiting lists for medical specialists, a half-hour of waiting days to visit you with the medical specialist; so that we do not talk here about the territorial inequalities that you believe, so that they do not organize themselves. For example, Mr. Bosch, soc de Tarragona. In the city of Tarragona, to get a CT scan, you have to wait thirty days. Well, so it turns out that Reus, which is the town on the side, which is fifteen minutes away in the car, isn't thirty days of waiting, no, it's three hundred days of waiting for the same test. Why don't you reorganize the resources? We, from Ciutadans, presented a law, to improve the management of the waiting lists. And what did you do? Oh! , drop it, drop it with a goal to the totality, as they always do. Yesterday, too, we were talking about women, and this week we were talking more about women, even if we had to do it every day: 35 percent of single-marital families live in a poor situation in Catalonia. We're talking about working today, too, huh? Next, after saying and repeating that they could not return the foreign payments because of Madrid, it turns out that they can go back and forth. Home, it's the lsvedo lautó; it's the lsvedo lautó, counselor. But do you know what's going on? Not only when we're talking about how you're gonna work, we're talking about the extra payments, no, no; we're talking about the rights that you've spread and that you haven't recovered yet. What are they doing to reverse this situation? I've already told them before: don't expect them to convoke vaguely, act before. Because, look, all these facts that I'm giving him badly aren't new, no, no; they should make anyone rule with a bit of dignity or a little – a little – self-criticism. But you do exactly the opposite. Every time since the opposition you've been writing, you only know how to do two things: either you say that the blame is the rest of Spain, or you lie and you get pit from Catalonia, as if here all year long well, in account of explaining the lack of opportunity because of your management, your mismanagement. I hope, counselor, that I don't have, I don't know how to say, the shamelessness of taking pit from his management, and that much less is dedicated to telling me about the process. I hope not, because at these heights and with these data it is quite clear that the process has been a great deal of business for you and your friends, but for the vast majority of Catalans what I feel is bad. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.21.0	For the answer there is the letter of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.22.0	President, deputies, deputies, councillors... Congresswoman Roldán, with all due respect – who are all, huh? What are they all -- what kind of joke is this? - What kind of joke is this? You say: "I hope you don't have the shame of talking about the process. I assure you that I am unable to speak more about the process than you are and that your parliamentary group, that they do nothing else – that they do nothing else. [[Greetings.]] What kind of joke is this? That is to say, you voted or did not vote for Article 155, so as to achieve no political inaction, no; the starvation by political asphyxiation of the institutions of Catalonia. That's what you voted for. Did they vote for him or didn't they vote for him? So now that you come here and accuse us of inaction... I have to hear that it's more the expression of a wish, of what you want than the past, than of what is actually happening. There are deputies who cannot exercise their rights, their companions; here they see the corners to which they cannot access. And that's because these deputies, therefore, either had to go to exile so that they wouldn't find the fate of their other companions who were in the Government of Catalonia and who were in the garjola, for more than a year, accused of not knowing how many things. You, who speak of inaction and who see these fellow Members sentenced to inaction by force, have you protested for this fact? Did you criticize him? Have I been convicted? You haven't even condemned your Vox friends who are asking for seven hundred years in prison for political inaction for these political leaders who were here in this hemisphere. It's just that they didn't even criticize him, that's all; on the contrary: applauding with the ears. Listen, this Parliament for a while didn't function normally, among other things because there was a suspicious government for you, for the People's Party, for the Socialist Party. That is why this Parliament could hardly function normally. And then, in the period you mentioned, from the elections of 21st December, we got to sum up. Yes, I already know you got more votes – I won't say the opposite, that's it – but you, who may be able to win, have proved yourself unable to add up. And with whom you are unable to sum up, you in government. So let's govern ourselves – it tastes hard – that we are bound to sum up. And from here, it is clear that we have come to reconstitute the Government of Catalonia, to govern, to take political action, and to do it, so, as it is to be done, in conjunction with this Parliament, of which you are a Member, you go here to the highway and you can speak freely. Therefore, this democratic normality we have worked tirelessly because it can be restored to the maximum, despite the obstacles, despite all the obstacles, which, as I have said, are many. It's that it's equivalent to giving someone a push, seeing that he's falling, turning him on with his hands and hands, and saying, "You're not soft! No, you're not. So, look, despite this, despite the embargo, despite the interbanks, despite these bounds of little and no hands, we do move – we do move. We move a lot. Examples of the day: we talk about women, as you said. So, in these days, in a short time, creation of the Catalan Observers of Justice in Male Violence, Pla Director of Training in Gender Equity, Protocol of Security against Sexual Violence in the Oci. Necessary measures, measures that we have taken so long as it is fought against this social chakra that must not be tolerated and cannot be tolerated. This week's political action, huh? – I quote this week –: law announcements about loggers regulation – doesn't seem important to you, does it? –; adoption of the decree on urgent measures to improve access to housing– does not seem important to you, does it? –; final evaluation report of the Open Government Platform 2017-2018: with an execution of 73_per_cent and with an execution of 92_per_cent for what it does to the participation – not only govern, but govern with intent, the longing and the determined will for everyone to participate, as many people as possible. This year's actions in which you say there has been political inaction. Pla català del refugio: collidada de 22_percent dels refugios a l'Etat Espanyol – so on what is our proportion in the population. By the year 2018, the DGAIA has brought together 2,156 children and adolescents – bonded and protected; we strive for the most vulnerable people, and especially for children. We believe in justice, of course, but we build it so that justice has more resources and can act better. In salutation: inn of eleven new CAPs, two new CUAPs, a new consultant and great renewal and expansion of two CAPs and one consultant. I suppose this seems to you to be relevant political action. So, it's done. One hundred_million euros to the primary attention of the Catalan Institute of Health, to overload and improve the service; contracting of new doctors, opposition for two_ thousand professionals of medicine. Does this look like political action to you, or does it not look like political action to you? In education: opposition for 5.005 teachers, introduction of two-hundred new professionals in the education system. Does that sound substantial to you? Does it look like a defenceable political action to you or not? I think so. Announcements of twenty-five we school institutes for the coming year; a model of success that, obviously, we want to expand and extend, obviously. And education is a priority. And we show it; we show it building, not criticizing; they don't deserve it, but building, which is what a government has to do. And even without presuppositions..., among other things, because their group did not want to talk; it is that it did not want neither to try to negotiate nor to talk about presuppositions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, listen, you have your option, and you have your trend legitimately, and you have your way of working, which is not building, it's another one, huh? So, listen, you've sorted it out. But until we have no presuppositions, the Generalitat will close the year 2018 with a temporary deficit of 0.38_per_cent. Compare it with other governments. Compare it with other realities. The goal of establishment for the second year is fully completed. It's not new: the second year it's turned out. They were, don't tell me we don't rule. Don't tell me there's been bad management. Because I recognize him that the interbanks have been and continue to be many – many. I admit that this reality is difficult and that it is difficult to govern, and that it is difficult to manage with this reality. And among other reasons I refer you to the reasons that I was commenting on at the beginning, because you have worked obstinately, pertinently, to block and sabotage the parliamentary action and government action of this government. That despite everything and despite this obstruction of management and good governance, we continue to be determined to do what we have to do, such as government to govern and manage. [[remorse of the voice]] And to create new realities... it's that if you don't listen to me afterwards it'll be very hard to beat me, you know what I'm saying. I think if you listen to me, it'll be easier to make a reply. We govern and govern with all the political force that we can put into it. Therefore, political action does not exist, political inaction does not exist. Political inaction is what you want. In fact, you would like to see a complete paralysis of the institutions and the Catalan administration, and this, we do not think we will allow, we will not tolerate. We will act, we will always rule in position and build a better country that is our obligation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer is the return, again, of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.24.0	Yes; thank you, President. Wow, Mr. Bosch, I thank you. I thank you for saying that I can come here to this rostrum to speak whenever I feel like it. Well, when it seems to me, no, because when you close Parliament I can't come here to do the action I have as an opposition. [[Greetings.]] I mean, when I want to, no, when it's okay with you. But, wow, you've been touched by a good piece of paper today – good. Must be very easy to take care of 7_million_and_average people with a speech like yours, right? You take the smoke curtain out of the process here, you dedicate all your efforts to dividing Catalans and blaming others and you cover it all with the process curtain, right? It's like the wild of the call, the wild of the process. I'm sure many Catalans who are watching us would also like to be able to use this wild card, wouldn't they? , put aside your work, your responsibilities, as you do, what happens is you can't. They can't, you know why? First out of responsibility, the one you don't have and prove every day you come here. And second because with the panorama that you are leaving in Catalonia you are not able to lose a single day's work. Look, I've done a review of how Catalonia's main social indicators are and I assure you that I've left a lot on the road because it gives me three more questions like this. I told him about child poverty, dependency, waiting lists in health care, officials, taxes. You tell me: "Compare – compare – the situation with other autonomous communities. Compare what you pay in other autonomous communities and what we pay here for taxes because of you, who do not want to lower taxes on the autonomous stretch, compare you, eh? I haven't talked to him, for example, about education. How many children are going to complete the course just as they started, Mr. Bosch, in barracks? How many? Because there are more than a thousand barracks in Catalonia. Does this seem to you to be a good management, here, as if to breastfeed? Sexual abuse, which we talked about yesterday too, we asked Mr Torra about this issue. One of the allegations of sexual abuse in Catalonia has a child as a victim. And experts point to the lack of coordination between administrations. Yesterday Mr. Torra did not answer, I give you today the opportunity to do so if you want, to see if you have any plans for this. Child poverty, huh? In one year, child poverty in Catalonia has increased by 10_per_cent. Self-employed. I don't know if it was pending before, in the interpellation we've done before. Look, 99_per_cent of the companies in Catalonia are SMEs. What have you done for the autonomous? What are you doing? In 2010 we had to have created the Catalan council of autonomous work, this is 2019, it's been nine years, have you? No, because they don't care. But you come here and get your chest out of your good management. Another issue that is of great concern to Catalans: corruption. In those twenty-one points of infamy you found neither a little hole, nor a little hole to talk about corruption. Well, well, I wonder why, Mr. Bosch. You get your chest out of the DGAIA; you've come out here talking about the DGAIA, that they're doing well. Do you know the problem you have with unaccompanied minors? Another sign that they act when we already have the most remedy. I mean, they don't anticipate, they don't anticipate. And in the case of unaccompanied minors even worse, because they first denied the evidence, after seeing that they had the minors sleeping on the floor of the police stations, huh? I told you about dependency, too, didn't I? There is an average of five years to obtain a place of residence. What is your Government doing about it? Because Catalonia doubles the national average rate of carelessness per dependency. You have a debt of EUR 41_million, which is a figure that you have recognized yourself, with the relatives of dependent people who have had to move out of their pocket what the Generalitat had to pay you and does not pay you. But you can't find the money. No, no, no. I mean, you find money for TV3, to open embassies, right? For that there is money – for that yes – but for these families, no. You also find no money to ensure that deaf children can study with sign language interpreter. Do you know how much this costs? Do you know how much it costs, Mr. Bosch? EUR 339,000_. I mean, they have 20 extra million for TV3 and they don't have 339,000 euros for children with special needs, do they? Then Mr Aragonès complains, as he told me the other day, that I use words like 'indecent'. Well, you'll tell me what adjective I put you to this, you'll tell me. I mean, they have EUR 112,000 to pay a fee to a process plug but they don't have for children who need sign language interpreters, what adjective do we put to this, Mr Bosch? You tell me, what an adjective I put you. Sales for the plugs, yes. Here you have the separatist card, Mr. Torra, right away he's looking for a little slot and he's making you a little cart, huh? And if you are also escaped from justice, then I will no longer explain it to you. That, what adjective do you have? What adjective do we put on him? What adjective to Mr Pujol's words? , which is also here: "Sometimes we get distracted by issues that are not essential, what does it matter if they are eighty_and_five_days of waiting lists or are eighty_and_twos. "Miggages," he said they were, huh? What adjective do we put to this, Mr Bosch? Seventy_y_eight_days waiting to visit you with the specialist, what adjective? I mean, for the real problems of Catalans they have no money, now for their Valencian nationalist friends, so yes. More than 12_million paying literally the mortgage of a building for the lords of Cultural Action of the Valencià Country. But what is this? That is, you are more interested in paying the historic building in the centre of Valencia to Valencian separatists, who, to Catalans, for example, to pay rent prices or for housing policies. I mean, does this seem normal to you? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And with this panorama above we find out that you want to raise the salary...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.25.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.26.0	I'm finishing up, President, thank you very much. On top of that, we find out you want to raise your salary, but it's okay here. I certainly..., a few months ago Mr. Torra said Catalonia ran out of patience...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.27.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.28.0	... – I'm done, I'm done with a sentence – she's out of patience, because, yes, she's out of patience and you're out of excuses. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.29.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.30.0	Mrs Roldán, we are aware that many things need to be improved, I would only miss them; and here we are. And many of the measures that you have pointed out as necessary, therefore, are measures that were provided for in our assumptions, of which you have not even wanted to speak. Therefore, perhaps there has been talk of these parties, parties that can help solve many of the problems that you do not want to talk about. It's just that they don't care to talk to us. You care about a rave that's going on, the problems of Catalan society. You come here to let your speech go. You have criticized the external action of the Generality. Is it maybe we don't have to have outside action? Is it possible that you think that it is not our obligation to integrate us into a global world, that this global world also knows us, that there is an intercanvi, that there is a trade, that there is tourism, that there is a cultural intercanvi? Is that not important? Don't you have to chase him? So we do, and we will, of course, it's our obligation. What is not our obligation is to set up an expedition to Waterloo that costs 15_000_euros, which means that the Belgian police and the gespa are more likely to be fined for making the ridiculous and climbing the gespa, and that they are more likely to open the door of that person's house and they don't even want to go into that house to talk to that person! They don't want to talk to anyone! [[Greetings.]] That's his problem. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] His intention – his intention –, I insist, is not to denounce an inaction that does not exist; his intention is to paralyse the Government and the Catalan institutions. The government – and this is a matter of which, therefore, my department is concerned – has returned during this legislature more than a thousand requests for documentation, about 500_per_cent more than the previous legislature. You look and we've done the job – you look and we've done the job. But I'll tell you more: Of these requests for information, Ciutadans, his group, did not submit a 90_per_cent, and all the answers, and we will continue to challenge them. Look if we do work, that we even answer those questions that you ask so as to collaps the Administration of the Generality. See if we do the work, of course, and we'll keep doing it. [[Widow's remorse.]] Because you're just hyperactive...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.31.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.32.0	And they don't know how hard...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.33.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.34.0	You're what's important, listening, huh? And it's important to talk, okay? Because, if not, then they say what they say and what happens. So, listen, you are, yes, hyperactive in one thing, which is to ask repetitive questions, and go back there, and ask it a hundred, two hundred times, the same question – the same question. That's why they know a lot about it. You're not the one who's proven we're not doing anything. The problem is they don't like what we do. They do not like all the action we do in education, in sanitation; they do not like what we do with the internationalization of Catalonia, which we are obliged to do, because we live in a global world. You don't like all this; that's the problem. You, therefore, like up a moment that you can no longer criticize, because up a moment that your sad balance of your parliamentary action no longer gives for more, so you go to Madrid, to see if there you can do worse than you have done here. That's what you do. And yesterday I told Mr Carrizosa that, when he was listening, when he was talking about neutrality, they were actually talking about censorship, and when they were talking about liberal feminism, they were actually talking about masculinism. So, now I'm saying, when they talk about this government's inaction, what they're talking about is its more intimate desire, its more unrecognizable desire, which is to cause the total paralysis of the government of Catalonia and the Catalan institutions in general. This is their undefeated desire, let's make it clear, they come here to Parliament and say, "We don't want this country to work and we don't want Catalan institutions to pull forward. What we want is to obstruct, what we want to block, what we want is to destroy. We build, we continue to build, and we do so because we esteem the people of this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the situation of health services]] [[300-00096/12]] The next question is about the situation of health services, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The honourable Member, Mr Santi Rodríguez, explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.36.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselor, well, we're setting up this inquiry, it's generically based on health care, but, as we've already commented with the counselor and the department's services, we want to focus a lot on pediatric care, and especially pediatric care on primary care. A few years ago, it's been a few years since we've seen pediatric problems in primary care, but these problems we think have gone on for years to come, haven't they? We understand that there has been, therefore, a situation of difficulties that has prevented the necessary resources from being available to maintain the quality of the service, but these times are over and, therefore, we believe that it has already been or should have been possible to attempt to reverse it. In the last few days, and between complaints to the Greuges Syndicate and complaints that they've known about the territory, we've made a small list of municipalities where there have been problems of different types, and it's disgusting, isn't it? : Gelida, Badia, the Senia, Santa Perpètua de Mogoda, Sant Pere de Ribes, to the EAP of the Olympic Village, to the CAP of the Passeig de Sant Joan, the Palma de Cervelló, Sabadell, Igualada, Moià, Sant Celoni, Sant Cugat, the CAP of the Sagrera, Granollers, the CAP of Cappont to Lleida, the CAP of Turó to the Turó de la Peira... Well, even the very disabte, this no, the next one, on the 16th, there is a demonstration in his region, in Anoia, to claim a service of worthy pediatrics, right? Therefore, I believe that we have a problem ahead of us and that we believe... Motions for resolutions have been discussed in committees, the problem has also been discussed in the various departments of the Parliament; the Greuges Syndicate has produced a small report, an official activity, which is the result of this group of complaints, which are of a variety of origin: from service reductions, from time to time, to time, from non-recognised pediatricians; removals of child-care services, which in some cases occur after they have occurred, because they have not been tried to relocate the services, from time to time, but instead have been carried out in different departments, and therefore have caused the abuse of services, which, in some cases, have occurred before them, because they have not been carried out in a specific way; however, they do not attempt to relocate the services, but rather to concentrate the services, and therefore, that they have resulted in the abuse of the services, which, in some cases, have occurred before them; they have not been carried out in a specific way, but they have been carried out in a different way, so that they have been carried out in a different way, and that they have not served, and that they have been served in different, and that they have not, and that they have not, and that, and that they have not been served in any other way. We believe that we are ahead of a problem that is no longer conjunctural, that we cannot say: 'Look, there is a specific problem, but it is a much more structural problem, and therefore we believe that it is worth paying attention and, above all, taking the appropriate measures to try to correct it in the future. We've got a tool... there's a lot of it, don't we? But, I would say, a specific one for pediatrics, which is the strategic plate of pediatrics to the primary care of 2007, a few years ago, and we would ask that we ratify the validity of that strategic plate at the present time and of the parameters that are there, such as, for example, that each infant has a reference pediatrician, that it is a very simple, very elementary thing and that at these times it is not complete, because there are not enough pediatricians as to be able to give each child in Catalonia a reference pediatrician and that it is approximately in one pediatrician every 1,200 infants younger than fourteen years. We're talking about this, aren't we? , and at this time in Catalonia there are 1,200,000 inhabitants, 1,200,000 infants under fourteen years of age. Therefore, we should have a thousand pediatricians in primary care. And we would appreciate it if you could tell us exactly how many we have, because, look, the Catalan Pediatric Society tells us that there are between 250 and 300 missing – and then there are some other data that I will also comment on. The strategic plan of this, of pediatrics, also does something else. I say this because we read the report of the Synod of Greuges, which says: "To the Department of Health, man, it is good that family doctors follow, with a specific formation of pediatricians, those who replace the pocket of pediatricians, right? But it's that the strategic plan doesn't say that, the strategic plan says that what needs to be prioritized is to have pediatricians before family members. Why? Well, so because it's a more specific formation, which can then have its best and surely have its best in training, but I think there have been enough studies to show that the care a pediatrician gives is much more complete than the care a family meth can give with a certain training in the field of pediatrics. The department says: « Listen, in Catalonia there are only nine primary care teams that do not have pediatricians and xifran globally that 20_percent of pediatric places are covered by family doctors. In change, the Spanish Association of Pediatrics of Primary Care talks to us about 28.34_per_cent, the Catalan Pediatric Society talks to us about 30_per_cent and the Metges union of Catalonia talks to us about 40_per_cent. I understand that, for these figures, they must be around 30_per_cent and, therefore, a deficiency, at these times, of some three hundred pediatricians to primary care in Catalonia. Who are the problems that pose us, so... that lead us to this situation, right? Few MIR training places. And that's a question that I'm talking about from the government of the generality, from the council, that I'm asking for the number of places that you consider appropriate to cover the vacancies that you're putting up for primary attention, for one thing. But on the other hand, there are few incentives for professionals to go to these places of pediatrics for primary care: few job incentives, few job and family reconciliation incentives, there are few expectations of professional development in primary care pediatricians, and also wage differences in relation to pediatricians who opt for hospital services and even willing to sacrifice themselves with guards, which involve a better wage, right? Clearly, all these elements are the ones who do that, even though it seems to me that 2018 was of the order of sixty-four residents who made the specialty of pediatrics; then, at the time of truth, they are incorporated into the primary attention of the god, twelve, many pockets, because the others prefer other options, some in hospitals, but others also outside of Catalonia, right? Therefore, I believe that we must take measures to encourage the correction of all these aspects, so as to improve the provision of pediatricians to primary care in Catalonia. Another problem is the repositioning rate: as a professional jubilee, they do not fit in enough. It's set to 0.8, that's to say, for every professional god who's jubilee, they only fit in eight, right? And so we're losing people in the community of pediatricians. I had commented on these aspects in relation to doctors, but we also have another more general problem, which is in relation to the infirmary, and above all to the pediatric infirmary, but globally also to the infirmary professionals. Therefore, counsel, we would like to know your opinion and, therefore, try to contrast above all possible solutions so as to improve pediatric care in children in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word has the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.38.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, I want to start – and perhaps I do not serve as a precedent, with the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the People's Party – so, for sure, things we agree on and can share. And, moreover, to thank all, the fact that is documented, that comes to express a concern that you have, and that, moreover, we also share, because we share it with the rest of society, and, in those things that we agree, such as that care for childhood and adolescence is fit in our country, to any society, that are some stages of life that have some need of salvation, in this case, specific, that the influence of what women today have on us is marked by adulthood and society of the future, and the importance also in the fact of primary care; that primary care is not only to these infants and these young people when they have a procedure of malaise, but also to promote salvation. In which we may not agree so much it is in, perhaps, a message too negated. There are no problems with pediatrics or the quality of how we are providing these services to our country, despite the fact that we may have difficulties, and despite the fact that we have dysfunctions that we have to go and that you have not pointed out some, and you have pointed them out, in addition, with rigor and good. I do say it, and I repeat the data and contrast it with it that it is true that the pediatric service is guaranteed for all children in our country; 80_percent, directly through pediatricians, and 20_per_cent, through family and community medicine with specific pediatric training. And I repeat, because you asked me, and I want you to be very clear, that the government's goal, the Health Department's goal, is that primary care in childhood is led by pediatricians, as you asked me, according to the work that had been done previously. And work through two important tools. One is the Enapisc, the National Primary Care and Community Health Strategy, and the other, obviously, is the Forum of Professional Dialogue for everyone who refers to the availability of the best professionals to attend to the salvation, in this case, of our infants and young people. And we have done many things to advance and to be able to correct also dysfunctions that provoke us and that come from far in the professional field, as included in 061, since June 2017, a pediatric support directly for all professionals of CAPs, hospitals, doctors and SEM infirmary, in the most complex and specific pediatric cases, and directly in the face of citizenship, through an agreement with hospitals like Sant Joan de Déu, Vall d'Hebron, and Santa Creu and Sant Pau, which are obviously leading hospitals in pediatrics in our country. What 061 did is a pioneer project in the Spanish State. It represents twenty-four hours a day, 365 days a year, of doctors and nurses directly available for citizens and other professionals. Most of the consultations that were held were infectious respiratory processes, followed by digestive, neurological, dermatological, and traumatic problems. And the most demanded age – and this..., we have to look at, these figures – is between one and four years of life, with a 41_percent of the cases, followed by infants less than one year, 33_percent of the cases. This is for us, this data, and we have to look at it, a little, the insistence, as we have to model pediatric care in this immediate future. I have already said before: the Government's object is that primary care led by pediatricians..., and we are working through the Enapisc, and the Enapisc proposes a revision of the model of pediatric care to primary care, through, first of all, the multidisciplinary technical committee, where there are scientific societies that you have given before: professional and expert colleges; experts who work from jobs that we already have and that you have already pointed out, such as the Strategic School of Pediatrics in the first instance in Catalonia, which is in 2007, where the expert noted that these new social and professional requests have already been made, such as the Strategic School of Pediatrics in the first instance, but also in the first instance in Catalonia, where it was in 2007 that the expert noted that these new social and professional requests have been made by you in the first instance in the field of medical care, but also in the first instance in the field of medical care. Therefore, we have an opportunity now open, and you tell me, we certainly have dysfunctions in the system and in the pediatric care that we are working at the end opportunity to reorder the pediatric care. But, oll! , always – always, always – integrated into the primary care network. We don't want the pediatric care to be in the band and apart from the primary care, just because we're saying that, first of all, it has to take some concrete steps. Primary care must reach our entire population, and pediatric care must be integrated or integrated into this primary care. We had, since 85, with primary care reform, primary care teams incorporating pediatric teams; there could be two, three pediatricians, for example, the pediatric team, and twelve to fifteen family members, the whole primary care team. There were malfunctions with this, which we have seen and which we see now, such as the flow of attention and differentiated protocols, so do not work properly coordinated with the whole primary care team, a relationship with the pediatric services of the very reduced hospitals and little continuing training in pediatrics in the same team, because they were very small teams in the primary care teams. In this, there have been two different developments. The first and most urban, I would say, is with a greater concentration of pediatric teams in the form of pediatric lines to urban areas, if it does offer us some better ones, such as, for example, a higher link with the hospital, and, therefore, a joint hospital training with shared protocols. But where we need to go and where we see that the integrated pediatric care in the primary care needs to be, is, with different primary care teams that obviously have, in a territorial organization base of the pediatric care teams, maintaining proximity with primary care centers, but with a much better coordination between the different pediatric care teams in the same area. Also, among their primary care teams, but among the different pediatric teams, forming a territorial team, and with this link – that we do not lose from the first evolution – with the hospital training that can give us a much better coordination with hospitals, when we are talking about pediatric care in the territorial area. Therefore, if we want to strengthen the comprehensive, multi-disciplinary, longitudinal, child-centred and family-centred care, it must be fully integrated into the primary care. If we want to improve the resolution of proximity, we will have to expand the focus and talk with territories, think about territories, think about that referral hospital that can also incorporate a lot of training and teamwork with primary care pediatric teams, and obviously we need to review the territorial applicability of everything that I am saying, with an organizational model, with a portfolio of services, with the endowment of resources, with the Community approach. We do not forget that the Enapisc, which is a strategy of primary care and community health..., and we want our pediatric services to go to the community, reviewing competence profiles, professional development, in relation to other care levels, such as the relationship of primary care to the hospital, for which it refers to pediatrics, and to leadership and recognition of what is the figure of the pediatrician. Therefore, coordination will be the key to success in all of this. Coordination between agents, coordination between care levels and coordination with the community. And the challenges we face for the new model – for the new model – apart from the adequacy of human resources and the distribution of human resources in the territories, and the orientation to the community, obviously we are also planning to promote the competitive development of all professionals involved in the pediatric team, empowering professional roles of the infirmary, in this case, which you have also pointed out, and which we can extend to the replication, and I can explain to you what is the approach, more than the professional point of view, that we are doing from the Health Department, very, very, very intensely, in order to have the best services and the best quality. We think we have them, we think we have to keep them going, that they're our childhood and our adolescence, and that's why we're working and we're working a lot in all these aspects. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now, for the record, it's Mr Rodriguez's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.40.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. I don't know if I've been quieter or not. Jo, from the start, I didn't feel any more comfortable. Maybe I got more worried after I felt his intervention. I already know that these things for someone are not very important, but for us they are very important – they are very important – aren't they? But I was concerned, Counselor, that you told us there were no problems. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, you did. "There are no problems in pediatric care. And I can understand that, with the resources they have, both human and material, etc., you are giving all the service that you can give, but that doesn't mean that the service is enough, because, if the service was enough, we wouldn't have, they wouldn't have the continuous complaints so repeated and so dispersed territorially in relation to the pediatric service. They're not serious, these complaints. Or are we told that users are complaining why they have the vice of complaining? And they are manifesting in the region of Anoia for a service worthy of pediatrics, why do they have the vice of manifesting themselves? I get the impression that there is a difference of perception, or, like at least, if you are convinced that what you are doing is the only thing you can do, like at least, you should make a communication effort. And we agree with many of the assumptions that you have explained. We cannot agree or be reassured that there is an important gap of pediatric doctors, who are covered, these places, with family doctors with pediatric training, because the resolution is not the same. With all the good will that family doctors have to attend to pediatric users, training is not the same, and resolution is not the same, and user perception is not the same, either. And those of us who are peers know that what we... for the more efforts we have made with 061, that we already seem positive that we are making efforts with 061, but those of us who are peers know that when the child is not well or the child is not well, what we want is for them to see a pediatrician, not to call by phone – what we want is for them to see a pediatrician. And the problem arises when we go to the CAP or when we go to hospital emergencies—now that's not the case, because we're talking about primary care—and there's no asking, and, at last, agreeing that pediatric services need to be integrated into primary care, absolutely agreeable. The Enapisc, which is prioritising is that there are primary care services that do not have pediatrics, that this is another of the problems that have arisen; that we can hear, that a certain service is to be concentrated in certain primary care centers, but we might have to explain, also, to the user, because many of the complaints are referred to, precisely, that pediatrics are tanked in primary care centers because they are related to other centers. But then I raised a problem for him to cover the places that are pending or that are, in some way, vacant in pediatrics. You didn't mention it. With what? As we did to get us to have the equipment of pediatricians that our own plans – he quoted the strategic plan of 2007 – tell us that we have to have: one per 1,200 inhabitants, approximately, younger than fourteen years– approximately – which represents eight hundred, nine hundred visits per pediatrician. With what? Do we have any plans to try to capture this situation? We're not doing this tomorrow, we're fully aware. So good! We have the magic stick to do it, but do you have any proposal to try to understand this situation, correct this situation, and that the pediatric service is a service that all citizens can feel proud of and that, as a minimum, the perception that it is not the service in the conditions under which it is reduced, I no longer tell it to disappear, as a minimum, diminished? I believe that this is what must be the objective and, in this sense, we hope that you will advise us exactly on what measures they will take and we will also propose to do so, so that we will have Parliament's plenary meeting at the time of taking steps to try to grasp this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the line again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.42.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, now I'm going to calm down and I'm going to calm down a lot. We're working with the territorial pediatric teams there where we've identified, because I didn't say there's no problems, I've recognized that there's a lot of malfunctions and professional availability issues that I told him I'd explain to the answer how we're doing the approach. Territorial Paediatric Teams, because I was very calm. First point: to improve the coverage of the service for the citizenry, which means that every infant, young – up to fourteen years, obviously – has a pediatrician of reference. First point clears up. Second point: improve the conditions of pediatric professionals. What? More continuous training, doing what I gave before, than not feeling with a small pediatric team in a primary care center, but being part of a larger team than providing them with more continuous training; team work, better resolution, because when you talk about family doctors who do have a part of training in pediatrics, but that is not the same as the pediatrician... If it is team work, if it is part of the same team, if there is a leading pediatrician, the attention is absolutely guaranteed, nor at that time and at that point of attention is not specifically to be asked. But the pediatrician is not that there is not, part of the team, there is; apart from having training that train individually, it is part of a team that can consult and work together. Therefore, this is to improve the resolution of the entire team. And to improve the resolution also implies that we may have to plant, in the portfolio of services, increase the portfolio of services that is done from the primary with analytics of babies, with spirometry, with ultrasounds in children, and we can do it already from the primary attention. Coordination between the primary care team and the referral hospital, sharing protocols, sharing care routes, because these referrals that you were talking to me before, which seem to be referrals expelled to the hospital, do not follow, but it is based on protocols and hospitals also know that what is coming from and up to a hospital is what is needed to arrive, because primary care is absolutely resolute. And a better coverage, obviously, that we need, of pediatric professionals. The evolution has two models, one of more cities, what he talked about before, and one of more semi-rural cities. The urban population is more likely to be able to group professionals of the pediatric service, because the distances are much shorter, because the proximity is much more guaranteed than in a semi-urban and rural environment. But in the semi-urban and rural areas, the answer to the reality of territorial dispersion is to maintain proximity, working very closely in the network, with a joint organization and coordination, as was done at Penedès, Girona, Pirineus, as we will certainly have to plant in Anoia, in my region, and as it is working from the regions and from the territories. Therefore, we currently have the assessment of the good practices that have been done, with the Observer for Innovation and Aquas Management, that is helping us to systematize which models are the success to be able to extrapolate them to all Catalonia, taking into account this diversity, that is not the same pediatric care in the urban area as in the semi-urban and rural areas. And we have the operating plan for the deployment of this pediatric, family and community care of the city of Barcelona in dialogue. I want to explain. You said to me: "When our son or daughter is found ill, we want him to watch the pediatrician. And maybe this is a good perception as a citizen, because we have a very clean and very quality pediatric service, but in reality, let's think very well, what we want is to be told what problem you have, what solution there is, if the infection you have on the neck is viral or is bacterial, if you need antibiotics or not, how many days you will be, if you have to go back to the pediatrician and primary care center to do a few reviews, and that's what we're worried about and what we need to guarantee. Catalonia is one of the five most valued territories in the State to train these pediatricians, therefore, because we have referral hospitals like Vall d'Hebron or Sant Joan de Deu. What's the problem? We have the 2019 MIR, which is sixty-four seats; yes, two more seats than last year, four more than four years ago. But why do we have this problem? The training that we have so far donated from the pediatric specialty is absolutely focused on the hospital: three_months of training in primary care spend our residents in four years of specialty training. And that's a malfunction that then affects us in what you also pointed out, which is then, these specialists who have already formed do not see in the primary attention a valid professional exit. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We're working...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.43.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.44.0	... in this, we have absolutely identified it – I finish, president – and that's why we did the Professional Dialeg Forum, which we are working hard and which I will come to explain to you - also to the Health Commission. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a commission of inquiry into the monarchy]] [[252-00016/12]] The next item is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution creating a commission of inquiry into the monarchy. In the first place, and to present this initiative, we will start the debate by starting my proposed parliamentary groups, on a single two-minute intervention period for each of them and five minutes, obviously, the parliamentary sub-groups. So, and in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro. [[Pause the rialles.]] Yes, Congressman Lucas Ferro, forward, if it's you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.46.0	Thank you very much, President. A decent country does not deserve the systemic corruption of its institutions to be revealed by chapters by a former commissioner in a plot more peculiar to Los Soprano than a democratic state that prides itself on being so. It is a shame as a country that in the Congress of Deputies the monarchical parties have systematically vetoed the opening of a commission of inquiry to clarify the involvement of the Royal House in cases of corruption that stalk it. The first thing I want to say today to those who defend the opacity of the Royal House against wind and tide is that a monarchy cannot be a blank check in a democratic state. To defend the parliamentary monarchy from a democratic will is to defend precisely that parliaments can exercise their functions of control before the Royal House. And as long as the king is king of Spain, and therefore also of Catalonia, we will demand and never renounce that he be subject to the democratic control of this Parliament. Those who make impunity and opacity the only way to keep the monarchy afloat, you point out, more effectively than anyone else, what is the way to build a decent country, to put institutions to work to defend citizens and to put decency at the centre of the exercise of power. You have turned the fortune and activities of the Royal House into a state secret, and your deputies into the only ones in this country who continue to shout that the king is not naked. And all this in the face of a citizen who sees how it is abandoned in the face of a systematic corruption that we all pay and which is relegated to the role of viewers of the leaks that come from a war within the power and not from the desire for regeneration of those who govern. To those who are going to campaign this April 28, selling change and regeneration, telling you that in this country regeneration is not a question of marketing, it is a question of power above all. In a country where 71_per_cent of tax fraud is committed by big fortunes, which cost every year 2,000_euros to all citizens, and where the banking system owes 81_million_euros to all citizens, regeneration is a question of power and not of marketing. Regeneration Spain needs courageous policies capable of bringing to justice those who by right of class or cradle thought they were above the law in this country. And those who are not able to do so, do not deserve to govern Spain, because they will be unable to build a project of well-being and democratic decency against those who have made fraud and impunity their main source of wealth. Catalonia had to suffer the humiliation that an entire former president of the Generalitat confessed by letter to having hidden money from the public treasury in Andorra for thirty-four years. And today the case remains open and the Generalitat continues to owe Catalonia a serious and rigorous audit of the darkest years of its history. But today Jordi Pujol does not have any of his privileges as former president: neither express salary, nor the express office, nor the treatise of very honorable, nor the gold medal of the Generalitat. But there is one problem: the expressive grudge, which threatened that if a branch of the tree is reaped, the others may fall, it seems that he knew what was being said and above all what was being kept silent, we still do not know what the other branches of that corrupt plot are. And I read a news from El Mundo to give you a hint: "The judge of the National Court, José de la Mata, has just incorporated into the judicial summary of the Pujol case several internal police notes that support the existence of a negotiation between the CNI and former Catalan President Jordi Pujol. The object of these alleged talks would always seek, according to these reports, a favorable judicial treatment for the Catalan clan in exchange for it not revealing sensitive information about Don Juan Carlos, specifically that it does not count that the emeritus king has money in the Soleado account of the Gürtel. This news is from January 30, 2017. A year later, through Corinna's recordings, we learned that Jordi Pujol and Juan Carlos I allegedly shared the same front runner, Arturo Fasana, in their accounts in Switzerland. And we could be all afternoon, filtration to filtration, following the trail of impunity in this country, in the roles of Panama, in the weekly leaks, in the relationship between the Royal House and dictatorships like the Saudi and in the relationship between the Royal House and the most corrupt businessmen in this country. But the fundamental thing is that Spain and Catalonia deserve to put an end to the impunity of those who today continue to subject the public authorities to their will. Spain and Catalonia are better than their king and deserve a congress and a parliament that serves the interests of the citizenry, that responds to their demands for regeneration and that opens a new time in our country. Finally, Spain and Catalonia also deserve to lead a second transition in our country. They deserve to cooperate to build a country project where all identities, all social, civil and democratic rights, and the expectations of progress of the majority of this country are at stake. And they need to open a constitutional dialogue to do so. And they need institutions to live up to that, capable of leading a democratic solution for our country. And the king, in his speech of 3 October and in his acts as king, has been placed as an insurmountable obstacle to building a Spain capable of recognizing the nations that make up it. I read a headline. is: "The Chairman of the SEAT Corporate Committee recognizes political and monarchical pressures for the change of head office, something that the government delegate himself confirmed in France. And everything points out that it was not the only company to receive pressure from the head of state. Catalonia and Spain deserve not to have to wait for any former commissioner to know the role of the Royal House in the flight of companies in this country. The state crisis in Spain is the daughter of many crises, of a decade of austerity that has broken well-being in our country and made it subject, by constitutional mandate, to the interests of the banks. A country where bipartisanship has given our institutions and the well-being of our people to those who do not stand for election. A corrupt country that challenges the separation of powers and creates parallel police to shield itself from corruption and attack its political rivals. A country where the main companies that attack our welfare model live from their privileged relationship with the State, which humiliates the diplomacy of peace, subjecting it to the private interests of those who do business with the war, and a country unable to open a democratic path to address the problem of Catalonia, which is no other than the challenge of recognizing itself as a country of countries. The citizenship of this country deserves to open a new stage. Spain must be able to offer something more than submission to what it was and to what it is. Spain deserves to build confidence in its future, in which it can emerge from this state crisis as a more decent, fairer and democratic country. Catalonia, which has been the protagonist of all democratic progress in this country, deserves to be able to generate confidence that Spain will be a more decent, prosperous and democratic country. And this happens, without a doubt, because the institutions assume their role and are the engine of dialogue, regeneration and well-being. And as long as the Royal House is also the Royal House of Catalonia, this Parliament must never renounce to subject the democratic control of this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, is the turn of the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.48.0	Thank you, President. Well, as you know, the year 69 dictator Franco appointed Joan Carles and his successor, to the title of King of Spain, by virtue of the Law of Succession to the prefecture of the State of 47– all very democratic, as you see –, I also recognized Spanish as the king. On June 22nd of that year, the Spanish Courts ratified the nomination, and before that it was proclaimed prince of Spain and swore the fundamental laws of the kingdom and the principles of the Faixista Movement Nacional, the ideal of the franchise. All very democratic, impeccably democratic. On November 20, 75, the general and dictator Franco, head of the Spanish State, died. On 22 November, Prince Joan Carles was proclaimed King of Spain before the Spanish Courts under the name of Joan Carles I, and swore to God and about the Gospels to complete and to complete the state laws of the kingdom and to keep loyalty to the principles that informed the National Movement. All very democratic, impeccably democratic. I, in this sense, it is worth recalling some of the monarch's famous phrases: "I swear by God and on the holy gospels to fulfill and enforce the fundamental laws of the Kingdom and to maintain loyalty to the principles reported by the National Movement. And according to the dictator, when he died, King Joan Carles said: "An exceptional figure enters history. Francisco Franco's name will already be a milestone in Spanish events and a milestone to which it will be impossible to stop referring to itself in order to understand the key to our contemporary political life. With respect and gratitude I would like to recall the figure who for so many years assumed the heavy responsibility of leading the rule of the State. So, this character, most of the parties in this chamber have supported it and are complicit in it; of this character, you are an indestriable part of the phone – an indestriable part of the phone. And I want to remind them of a pearl – time does not allow me any more – I'm sure everyone will remember it, but it is ineffable, that of "It was never our language of imposition, but of encounter. No one was ever forced to speak in Spanish, it was the most diverse peoples who made their own, by free will, the language of Cervantes. Everybody knows the conquerors were anaponing, huh? For the peoples of America, they said: "Ecculti'm, indigenous lord, hear that you will be so kind as to speak in the castle, that you do not know what you are missing? And that was the usual attitude of the colonizers when they were camping democratically and peacefully in the lands of America? So, this is the "levellasso," this is the level that the Spanish monarchy had, and that hasn't changed – and that hasn't changed, huh? We see in his successor, Philip VI, exactly the same cultural background, the same principles and the same phonative values. But we're going to talk about corruption – I don't have time to go any further, do I? Mr. Joan Carles I was awarded 375_million_de_pessetes of his father's heritage through secs entered into Swiss accounts, half-headed, his so-called Álvaro d'Orleans, etc. The royal family was encamped, therefore, with accounts in Panama. Not to mention the arms traffic, which was a regular business of the Royal House and Joan Carles I, commissions for the AVE to Mecca, collecting blood-stained money from the Saudi dictatorship, etc. And all this with the complicity of most parties in this chamber. I can talk about the Gürtel case, the Noos case, huh? But did Philip VI suppose a change in this trajectory? No, no, We see that they continue to be a mediator necessary for the arms trade and for the arms trade with Saudi Arabia and with dictatorships of all kinds. Listen, for this and for many more things, obviously, since the Spanish Congress does not want to do so, this Parliament must have the dignity and the decency to investigate the Spanish monarchy, that of Joan Carles I; that of Philip VI, to investigate the Royal House, to investigate its profound implication with corruption, with arms trafficking, with the violation of social, civil and political rights of the world, but also the implications of all actors and agents of the regime supporting this monarchy. Because yes, the 78th rule, the one that we want to dismiss and fall and expel from our country, is a connivance of the Royal House, of the monarchy, of the army, of the Episcopal Conference, of the enterprises of Ibex 35, of the judiciary, of the prosecutor's office and of the majority of the parties of this chamber and of the Spanish Congress, which, by means of its network of interests, use the Spanish State as its private business. And that's why, yes, the regime must fall; the regime is not reformable and the commission of inquiry does not have to be an instrument. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.50.0	Thank you, President. The creation of the monarchy's commission of inquiry must lay on an institution which is mostly rejected by the citizens of Catalonia, which is close to the extreme right, which is anachronistic, which is masculinist, which is opaque and corrupt, and, in the person of Philip VI, which is addicted to exceeding its constitutional powers. An institution, moreover, that has been twice as reproved by the Parliament of Catalonia. The reasons are many and we have not passed through the two Members much now, and to see if in two minutes we give time to finish the long list we have selected, thanks also to the work done by the technical team of the parliamentary group, which I am sure without them all would be more difficult. The monarchy: an institution mostly rejected for the citizens of Catalonia. 59.6 per cent of Catalans and Catalans do not trust the head of the State; 79.6 per cent suspect it. The Spanish monarchy is the lowest rated institution with a middle note of 1.74. The Bourbon Rebuild is unanimous among people of very different ideology, practically 60 percent of the PSC voters; almost 50 percent of the Ciutadans voters and 30 percent of the People's Party suspend the monarchy. This is the data of the CEO, the barometer of public opinion, in the first after the « blow to democracy that made us the Spanish State in 2018. The most possible, moreover, is that the majority of the Spanish citizenry also suspends the monarchy, but we cannot know for sure why the CIS, when asked about the value of the monarchy, did not ask about the value of the monarchy since April 2015, when it did it for the first time and suspended with a middle note of 4.34. The monarchy that exists not on the basis of consent but on the basis of imposition. There's no break with the Franco regime. If we have a monarchy, it's thanks to a French law that unites the two rules. Moreover, it is known that Adolfo Suárez did not steal a reference on the monarchy or republic to the Transition, as he admitted in an interview in 1995, on which he said: "When most of the heads of foreign governments asked me for a referendum on monarchy or republic, we did surveys and we lost. A reference on the monarchy, as the IPSOS survey points out, has a current support of 52 per cent of the population, which shoots up to 63 per cent among citizens between twenty-five and thirty-four years. It's very repeated, but it's not enough to be blunt: the monarchy is not democratic. The monarchy has never been voted for anyone, it was decided for Franco. The monarchy, close to the extreme right. The monarchy returns from Franco's hand imposed by a rebel regime that rose up against legitimate republican institutions. Such com Franco said: "It must be made clear to future generations that this monarchy was established with the Succession Act of 1947. I, if not, little Joan Carles swore « the principles of movement in fundamental Francoist laws. The relationship between Joan Carles de Borbo and the dictator was so narrow that even this one is responsible for the name of the present head of State, Felipe de Borbo. And some of you will say this all was an intelligent strategy of the monarch to bring the monarch to democracy. So the friendly perils continue, the Francoism, close to Joan Carles, brute his act on the 23rd of February. The same blows – yes, they did – violent, they went in – with guns to the hand and without Fairy to the butxaques – at the Congress of the Deputies, they were convinced that the king endorsed them. I have also repeatedly denounced former PNV deputy, Iñaki Anasagasti. What is clear is that Alfons Armada, an ancient tutor of Joan Carles de Borbó, sentenced to thirty years for 23-F, of which he completed up to four thanks to the indult of Felipe González. But, well, some of you will say this a while ago and there has been no evidence. So there's no more because the links between the extreme right were kept long enough. His assistant, from the camp house, who was Antonio Chicharro, current president of the Francisco Franco Foundation, and one of the assistants in the act that Vox celebrated at the Pavello de Vista Alegre, although I maintained a critical line with Vox ; critical line not to be too frank. The relationship of the Royal House with the extreme right also seems to be transmitted in the line of succession. We learned that the king's neboda, Victoria Federica, had attended the rally that organised Vox at the Barceló Theatre; last week's head released the news that Froilán had a patriotic gang with which he went to the demonstration of the right, of the extreme right, and of the fascism in place of Columbus. A double scandalous attendance since it had been approved beforehand for the Royal House which considered it a courageous gesture. The relationship between the monarchy and the extreme right is a relationship of mutual love. In Catalonia, for example, according to the data, the support to the monarchy increases as the person considers himself more self-regarding themselves than dreets. And as the New York Times correspondent Rafael Méndez collected, Vox's values are inherent in the Spanish monarchy. A male monarchy. The former head of the State was appointed by virtue of his name, of a Francoist name. The present head of State only has its origin in an article of the Spanish Constitution, totally masculinist and obsolete, which literally says that as a monarch, he prefers the man who gives it. And not only that, but the Constitution also gives power to the king over the fates of his family by empowering him to veto marriages of royal family members with persons who are not authorized for the same king. The masculinism that appears to be inherent in the institution and not only in the interests of inheritance, because it is only necessary to see the organigramme of the institutional dome of the royal house appointed for the same king where we find a total of eleven high ranks among which there is only one woman and which, moreover, occupies the task of intervention. An opaque and corrupt monarchy. It is known that the exile of Spanish Bourbons, in exile they had financial problems, however, when on April 2013 Joan Carles de Borbó died leaving his hereus 7,955,775_swiss francs; some 872_million_de_pessetes. In addition, we have often known the monarch's financial adventures thanks to the foreign press, for example, on October 2012, the New York Times reported that Joan Carles enjoyed an opaque fortune of 2,100_million_dollars. A lot of fortune for what caldera suppose taking into account the Royal House's presupposition, as recognized by the New York Times journalists who were going to investigate it. All points out that much of his fortune comes from negotiations and even donations in totalitarian monarchies such as that of the Saudi regime or, previously, the already of Persia. 1997 this last sent him 10_million_dollars and Fahd of Arabia, more than a hundred to return without interest that it seems they were never returned. This bargain of bulking fortune was managed for the personal friend of the king, Manuel Prado and Colón de Carvajal, collaborator and partner of the corrupt businessman Javier de la Rosa and who entered prison in 2004 for his activity as a commissionist for the Wardbase case, it was paid 2,000_million_of_peoples of the Torras Group irregularly. 2008 was also condemned for the decapitalisation of the Great Tibidabo and 2007 for diverting money from the Torras Group. The conversations charged for the presumed lover of King Joan Carles I, Corina, that the head of the interior clavegueres José Villarejo made public in view of'sempresat, contain important allegations to the fortunes of the Bourbons as, for example, that the king collected a millionaire commission from Saudi Arabia for the reconstruction of the AVE until Mecca. For the same work he also allegedly charged a commission from the OHL real estate office. In addition to the Saudi regime, commissions for the sale of weapons are also attributed to a criminal state that generates wars and refugees. It is known that the king emerit hid money from Switzerland by sending financial managers of the Gürtel case, by sending the Alvaro de Orleans de Borbo chieftains and the lawyer Dante Canonica, who benefited from the tax amnesty of Cristóbal Montoro. And all this, and all the other motivators, that won't give us time to read, and it's time to add up the October 3rd paper, where it went totally over. «A constitutional monarchy, they gave it; it was explained that it was based on that« the king reigns, but does not rule. Despite this, this king seems to be willing to interfere with the legislature and to condition the execution and the judiciary. The Royal House is a masculist, corrupt, anachronistic institution, mass related to the extreme right and the franchise and rejected mostly for the citizens of Catalonia. The Royal House is a democratic disgrace, addicted to skipping its constitutional role, and its impunity, a stumbling block that any state that is supposed to be democratic, homologable to the 21st century, cannot endorse. This commission claims or intends to put on lights and stenographers where too long it has worked with darkness, with envelopes, with presumed commissions. In this commission, the Republican representatives of the city of Catalonia will give a look at the democratic rebroadcast of the city over the monarchy and seek answers to the questions that undermine the functioning of the first institution of the State. As there are so many reasons, as there is no time for us to read them all, that is precisely why there is so much to talk about and that we need to create a commission. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Josep Costa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.52.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Councillor, Members, Members, thanks also to whom I have been preceded in the use of the paragraph, who, together with the Junts Group for Catalonia, subscribe to this proposal for the creation of the Committee of Inquiry. Historically, the Catalan Courts accepted the oath of kings with a formula that more or less said: "We, who are worth so much to you, who are no better than us, accept you as the king, on the condition that you keep our furs and freedoms, and if not, no. In Catalonia, it was understood that the figure of the king had to respect the furs and freedoms to be respected as the ruler, and from this tradition the republican vocation of this country arises. Currently, eight of every Catalan and Catalan people want a republic and six of every one score the Bourbon monarchy with a zero. Catalans and Catalans don't want no king, but especially we don't want this king. On October 3rd, Philip VI wanted to do his particular 23-F to the Crit d'A for them. That day he marked us as the main enemies of Spain, legitimized the last crackdown, which now culminates in an ignominious trial that is in place in the Supreme Court. And I want to take advantage of these moments to send a strong hug to our companies, who are being judged and who have to put up with all the falsehoods behind the accusations. [[Greetings.]] Since that 3rd of October, we have the moral duty to fight this outdated and anti-democratic monarchy, as this Parliament has said, if not in self-defence. The monarchy is now the same, as before the deputy companion, the most undervalued institution in Catalonia, for the sake of the Civil Guard, which you already deserve. I say again: the monarchy is the least valued institution for the citizens of this country, and that is not anything. The institutions of a state, if it means democratic, can only be legitimized for the consent of the citizens. There are many states that have monarchies, and in the European sphere these monarchies have an unquestionable popular support. A monarchy can only try to legitimize from the exemplarity of political and economic behavior, exquisite political neutrality, transparency and austerity. That is why Catalonia rejects more and more the rustle of bourbons every day; in our case, no popular support, because neither neutrality, nor transparency, nor austerity. Only for all this could we justify this commission of inquiry into the irregular activities linked to the monarchy. Why have we proposed it here, to the Parliament of Catalonia, and now, in full independence? I was proposing it to Parliament because it is where there is a political majority to do it; as has been said, four of us are the groups of this chamber that subscribe to the initiative, and I want to thank this support again. We have the support of a social majority, who said enough to the sudden and complicit silence about the corruption surrounding the royal institution. In the Spanish Congress, a commission appeared to have been vetoed for monarchic parties, otherwise known as the 155th tripartite. Surely this commission could have been done before, but I was proposing it now because from October 3rd it became evident, for a large majority at least, that the king is the X lord of the plot of power and corruption that continues to act on the margins of democracy. The Spanish Constitution says that the king symbolizes the unity and the permanence of the State, but today it symbolizes the continuity of the French deep state. The model Transition of 78 already know that it was not modeling, and in some spheres, like the judiciary, it was not so much a transition. After 591 deaths, the Transition ensured the continuity of the regime's power and corruption structures, which remain in the hands of the same families. The Spanish monarchy is one of those families. She ran away in the Republican spring of 31st and was only able to renege, this monarchy, swearing allegiance to the military rebellion of July 18th, 36th, and, among all the phrases that had been remembered by Congressman Riera, this is one of the most ignominious. He had to compromise 'to continue the work of a corrupt, the work of a satrap, as was the dictator Franco'. That is why we are proposing, here and now, the creation of this commission, because we believe that, by investigating the corruption structures linked to the monarchy, we are helping to delegitimize the rule of which we want to be independent. We want to clarify all the abuses that have been committed by the monarchy beyond the last few years. In the first place, we want to unravel all the maneuvers that have been done – it has already been said – to force companies to change their tax domicile; all this, last October 2017 and in response to the self-determination reference. We obviously want to know the tricks that have been done, for example, at SEAT and other large companies and banks. Up to the top of the power bust that the monarch exercised in his head-of-state functions? Did he also call on politicians and judges to press for the application of 155 and to undertake the Government of Catalonia? On those days, Philip VI did not exercise the role of moderator or arbiter and the neutrality that is constitutionally attached to him. Felipe de Borbó served as leader of repression, and this Catalans and Catalans will never be able to forgive him. Secondly, we want to unravel all the corruption structures surrounding the monarchy, and many of the examples have already been cited. I don't have time, in fact, to mention all the dark negotiations that we'd like to investigate. I do point out, however, only two names of possible candidates on this committee: Corinna and Villarejo; I am sure they mention many things. And all this is not suspicious. Only in the Noos case has it been shown that we are being robbed of 4_million_i_mig of public money. Urdangarin, actually, is in prison, but he shouldn't be alone. We'll stretch out the sons we care about. Thirdly, we want to investigate the pattern of irregular accounts in tax havens. Joan de Borbó, Joan Carles I or his Germans Margarita and Pilar; don't get away with it. We know that Joan de Borbó, as has been said, had a fortune of about 1,000_million of the ancient pessets in Switzerland, of which 375_million was inherited by King Joan Carles. From the same legacy, Margarita and Pilar were rebre 172 and 131 million respectively. For another band, Panamá's papers reveal that Infanta Pilar had run an opaque company for forty years; we still don't know how many millions of euros she had at the bank. As has already been said, the year 2012 the New York Times explained the luxuries of the monarchs and attributed them a fortune of more than 2,000_million euros; sure they remember, and if not, they just reminded us. If we take into account the annual entries of some 8_million euros that are declared, there would be more than 250 years to accumulate this fortune. Where did you get these 2,300_million euros? What taxes have they paid? In the Spanish State, who does it does not always pay it; but it is that, besides, some seem to always cover. Illustrious Members and Members, it is necessary to investigate the obscure negotiations linked to the monarchy. Like Catalans and Catalans, citizens of a country that aspires to be fully democratic, they cannot tolerate these things. Real inviolability can't be enforced. Those who vote against this motion for a resolution will be voting for the impunity of the millionaire negotiations that are being used for this unusually petty monarchy. Beyond the investigations into October 2017 maneuvers, about the corruption structures that engulf the crown's opaque fortune, about the relations with warheads and satraps, Saudi dictators, this commission of investigation must serve to contribute to the inderroc work of the 78th rule. This commission is the result of our anti-monarchy and anti-borbonic tradition, but above all it is the work of the republic that we are building in Catalonia, it must be the guillotine that cuts with a nest of kings imposed by divine or dictatorial designs. The Catalan Republic is the future. Yesterday, as today, we do not accept as the king who has not kept our rights and freedoms; today, as tomorrow, Catalonia will be republican or will not be. Dignity, truth, for the republic, Philip V was the first bulge and Philip VI must be the last. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.53.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.54.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, in memoriam of José Pedro Pérez Llorca, father of the Constitution; rest in peace. [[Greetings.]] We are debating today the proposal of the separatist parliamentary groups for the creation of a commission of inquiry into the monarchy, a motion for a resolution signed by the political groups responsible for the coup against democracy, which is currently being tried in the Supreme Court and which has various cases opened in the High Court of Justice of Catalonia and in other courts. The perpetrators of the coup to democracy continue in their strategy: to energize our social and legal state, imposing the will of a minority, on the margins of democracy. There's no room for surprises. In their frontal attack on democracy, today they intend to attack the main institution of the State, against the Head of State. Since it is a matter of extreme gravity affecting the whole nation, today, for the first time in this plenary, I will use the official language of the State, I will use Spanish, because I want the whole nation to understand the scope of this attack on democracy and because it is also the mother tongue of the majority of Catalans, the mother tongue of 55_per_cent of Catalans. Today, the parliamentary groups that gave their political action to the post-truth, which since several legislatures have been preaching victimism based on fallacies and lies, present us with a proposal to create a commission of inquiry that is based on one of the official newspapers of the Generality. Once again, the subsidized press modulates its message to serve the interests of the autonomous government. Several references to news published in the subsidized press open the statement of reasons for the supposed necessity and origin of the creation of a commission of inquiry into the monarchy, whose aim is to attack the crown and the head of state as the main subject of our form of state, the constitutional parliamentary monarchy. To complete the cocktail of supposed suitability, proposers refer to issues that have nothing to do with the head of State and that are also either tried or confined to the judicial sphere. They also call for this Parliament's supposed legitimacy to open this committee. We have said this at the Bureau of Parliament and at the Board of Spokesmen and I will repeat it to the plenary: the purpose of the committee of inquiry which is proposed in relation to acts of the royal family and of the Royal House is not a matter on which the Generality of Catalonia and therefore this Parliament have any competence. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament, in Rule 67.1, make it clear that only matters of public interest which fall within the competence of the Generality may be the subject of committees of inquiry. That's not the case. The people conjured up in this proposal continue to attack our democratic system head-on. They propose to us a commission of inquiry on the monarchy, that is, on the political form of the Spanish State, the parliamentary monarchy proclaimed in article 1.3 of the Constitution. In view of this fact, I must focus on two issues. First: the political form of our social and democratic state of law is neither the subject of the competence of this autonomous institution nor of any other; it belongs to all Spaniards. Second: the mere admission to procedure by the Bureau of Parliament should never have occurred, since the object of the proposed committee completely transcends the powers of this Parliament and of any of the institutions of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. Its admission to procedure can only be understood by putting it in perspective; the fact that the Bureau of Parliament has taken into account this proposal, manifestly contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber itself, is framed by the strategy that the separatist majority of its members shares with the autonomous Government and with the parliamentary groups, parties and entities of various furs that support it in its attempt to subvert the constitutional order and in its attempt to attack the main institutions of our social and democratic state of law, and in addition to attacking the good name of Spain. Of course they won't find us here; neither today nor ever will we be accomplices or palmers of their challenge to democracy. We leave that piece of paper, whether in common or not, to Podemos, which has been lending itself for months to be the perfect crutch for separatism, both in Catalonia and in other autonomous communities of Spain. Do not count on us; we will never give an alibi to reactionary separatism, which has struck democracy, which intends to continue giving what and which wants to impose on us its model of totalitarian republic of post-truth. We neither support nor participate in the charlotade they have in mind. We urge the Government of Spain, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, to present, between decree and decree law, this remedy of unconstitutionality in the face of the outrage that is going to be perpetrated today in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] We conspired him to do it. If it does not do so, the Parliamentary Group of Citizens will do so as a result of the 28 April elections, as soon as the General Courts are established on 21 May. On 28 February, the Day of Andalusia was celebrated. Today, on the line of this debate, I will take the leave to pay a small tribute to my country girl, Cadiz. And I will do so by introducing into the debate a word that is not yet recognized by the Royal Spanish Academy of Language : « jartible. Because the continued attitude, the persistence in the attempt to subvert the pillars of our social and democratic state of law from the institutions of the State itself by parliamentary groups, of the political parties that today attack the Head of State, makes the use of this term worthy of them. To make it clear: "Jartible defines, with all the guise proper to the people of my home country, a heavy person to extremes unsuspected by humanity. And in that, in the eyes of the majority of Catalans and the vast majority of the rest of the Spaniards, the political leaders, the main drivers of the persistent blow to democracy that we are suffering and which we are firmly opposing since the arrival of the political heir of the corrupt patriarch with whom, some say, everything began. That says the faithful squire of Jordi Pujol and Soley, the former leader of the extinct Democratic Union of Catalonia, Josep Antoni Duran Lleida. And he says it as if he had not been an enthusiastic accomplice of social engineering executed for decades by the most corrupt leader of the Spanish political landscape and each and every one of his heirs and collaborators, including, unfortunately, sometimes the PPs and PSCs themselves. Thus, the subversive process led by the Government of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, by the Government that worships the rebel fugitive who exercises as a guru of a sect from Waterloo, has a principle that we know well and an end that every day that passes is closer. Fortunately, the independence of the judiciary has safeguarded democracy, the judiciary has guaranteed the protection of the rights and freedoms enshrined in our democratic system that the coup to democracy of the Catalan Autonomous Government and its collaborators put at serious risk. Fortunately, as we are seeing these days, the oral trial opened by the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court against several of the main perpetrators of the coup is revealing the true scope of the conspiracy and the extreme pettyness of the majority of those involved. Fortunately, the head of state, his majesty the king, set foot on the wall on October 3, 2017; his speech served to let the Spaniards know the true scope of the coup attempt by Puigdemont and his adlaters. The committee they are proposing is nothing more than a vain attempt at revenge. And they will allow me, in the face of the affront that is being perpetrated today in this Parliament against the figure of the head of state, to make mine a brief fragment of the speech of Don Felipe who addressed to the nation on October 3, 2017: "It is the responsibility of the legitimate powers of the state to ensure the constitutional order and the normal functioning of the institutions, the validity of the rule of law and the self-government of Catalonia, based on the Constitution and its Statute of autonomy. Well, that's it. In this, as in many other things, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, our party, Citizens, and of course myself, we subscribe to the words of the Head of State. In this, ladies and gentlemen, I, with the king. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.55.0	On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mr Ferran Pedret has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.56.0	All right, thank you, President. There is no government..., deputies and deputies, we have listened carefully to the arguments of the groups proposing this motion for a resolution for the creation of a committee of inquiry; also that of the group that has so far opposed it. We must say that we understand, from the outset, the difficult and solemn nature of the chairing of the debate, because we are actually talking about one of the leading institutions in any rule, as a parliamentary monarchy, as a republic, which is, let us say, the figure of the head of state and the institutions that constitutionally structure it. So, that's why and because of the contents of the demonstrations that have been made by the groups defending the creation of this commission of inquiry, it seems to us that the debate is not over, huh? Perhaps this is the explanation of our position, for two issues that have already been identified. First of all, because the groups proposing the creation of the commission of inquiry are already, in themselves, a majority and, therefore, their creation is guaranteed, or at least their creation is very predictable, after a vote at this session. And in the second term, because our arguments were put forward primarily through a review proposal made at the end of November last year, which was also rejected at the end of November last year. So, we don't have any other lines, because we still think that the arguments that we presented were valid, that we repeat ourselves in these. From the outset, a first reflection that, let's say, has to be seen more with the criteria of opportunity, from the perspective of the groups proposing the resolution, than with other considerations. One of the sources in the motivating statement of the creation of the commission of inquiry is an article published at the beginning of October 18. Tanmateix, the record of the initiative that is presented today for consideration is one and a half months later, from the end of November 2018. Quickly, a recorded date, on November 23 was qualified and admitted to the Bureau on the 26th of the same month, and on the 29th we presented the request for reconsideration, which, as I said, after a session of the Board of Spokespersons and the Bureau, was dismissed for the Bureau on November 30th, 2018. And, of course, they surprise a little, as well as facing the solemn and difficult of what was said today, that we have trigated until today in bringing this commission of inquiry to the plenary. The groups have given priority to other issues, quite legitimately, but the circumstance that seems to us to justify the fact that the Committee of Inquiry is now carrying out is nothing more than the convening of a general election; it seems to us that this is far more than plausible. I say this for questions that affect the opportunity criteria. After that, respect the essence of the question, I must say that, on the margin that we believe that it is absolutely necessary in a democratic society that, both from the point of view of the public as well as of the institutions, it is possible to exercise a criticism as harsh as it is necessary to any of the institutions of the state, including the head of state, and from the fact that we understand that any of the institutions of the state – also the head of state – must be subject to a control, we must also defend that it is not only in parliamentary monarchies, with democratic constitutions corresponding to parliamentary monarchies, but also with democratic constitutions that opt for the regime to be republicated, there is a constitutional delimitation, or constitutional control. It seems to us that the Committee of Inquiry that is here today has not just married the constitutional forecasts respect the forms of control of the institution that are here under an examination, let us say, exhaustive force. Because it is true that in the same statement of reasons, in the same description of the object and of the abstract of the Committee of Inquiry, and even more so, I would say, in the same interventions that preceded it, it is clear that the commission of inquiry is from a background, let us say, sufficiently broad, that is to say, it requires a few objectives and has a sufficient breadth, that from our point of view – and we have exposed it in the review and we repeat it today – beyond the competence of the Generality of Catalonia. It is true that Article 59.6 of the Statute provides that the Parliament may set up commissions of inquiry into any matter of public concern which is of general interest and which does not make an express mention of the issue of jurisdiction. But it is also true that the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, specifically in Article 67.1, does make an express mention that these subjects of interest or public concern which may be the object of an inquiry commission are linked to the competences of the Generality of Catalonia. It may be recalled that there have been reforms of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia following the approval of the Statute. Moreover, this wording of Rule 67.1, is fully consistent with the wording given by Rule 68.1, apart from the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, from the question of who can be witnesses or who can be the object of the witnesses who have been called to testify in the investigation commissions. This rule, as the sayings, this regulatory rule, provides that witness appearances before investigation commissions only may be required in relation to questions that are of competence of the Generality. Therefore, it seems to us that it is difficult to predict the effectiveness of the Commission, in the sense that... for the purpose of describing its proposal, for which you yourself describe in your interventions, it is very difficult to link to the generality's competences to what you would like to have an investigation. And that's what we put forward, without success, in the reconsideration petition, that's what was rejected in his day for the Bureau, but that's what we think he's following is the objective limit to which this creation of a commission of inquiry is intended. It is a reflection that we share with the chamber, which, let us say – we are not naive – we know that the groups proposing the initiative will reject it, but in any case it is our obligation to share it, because we think that with the creation of this commission of inquiry, those regulatory forecasts are being exceeded, respecting the figure of the commissions of inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.58.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, they have the defachability to bring here a proposal for a committee of inquiry knowing perfectly well that it is neither viable nor sufficiently motivated. But it is also clear that with the departure at the time of the People's Party of the Government of Spain you had to build a new enemy; obviously, it could not be the one you had put on a motion of censure, and you chose the king and the monarchy. It is a strategic bulwark error that has been pointed out to you by many analysts, but it is clear that for you the strategic decisions have never been your strong one. In any case, they argue that we would stand before an archaic institution and that, as no one votes and is hereditary, it would therefore be incompatible with democracy, obviating the fact that Spain, Great Britain, Sweden, Norway or Denmark, among others, lead all the rankings of full democracies in the world, to the point that we can conclude, without fear of error, that the best democracies in the world are parliamentary monarchies, including Spain. And why does this happen? This happens because all these great nations of the world of course achieve their fullness in democracy, but they are not born in democracy. The monarchy collects its respective traditions, becomes the depositary of the cultural, political, historical and institutional acquis of each of them. That's why the parliamentary monarchy works so well, and that's why I'm monarchy. I always like to say that if I were an American I would be a fan of Thomas Jefferson and I would be a Republican, but I am Spanish, because I believe that Spain is understood as a monarchy, although of course I do not demand anyone to feel Spanish who also feels monarchy. That's what democracy is about. Argument, therefore, in my view, clearly disassembled. Parliamentary monarchies are not only not incompatible with democracy, but the best democracies in the world are parliamentary monarchies. What, therefore, is the source of all this anger and hatred toward the monarchy? Look, you locate him on October 3rd and the king's speech. They should understand that the king actually spoke that day, but when he spoke we spoke millions and millions of Spaniards, among them, including millions of Catalans, who we told them that up to here we had arrived. And, in fact, that's how far we've come. But there is a psychological issue a little worse: seeing the greatness of that discourse gives you back your own miseries. From there comes frustration and resentment, which is not against the king; in fact it is against yourself, because it did not take any supposed conspiracy of the king for all the great separatist hierarchs, many of you, to draw their money from Catalonia the day after the king's speech. Or are they implying that the king called them one by one to pressure them? There was no need for the king's conspiracy, no matter how much they talked about SEAT and I don't know what, for the great separatist hierarchs to take out their loans from Catalonia the day after the king's speech. It was four thousand. Or do they imply that the king called four thousand people to pressure them to take out their businesses? Here the problem is that you would love to be like William Wallace; it's the psychological problem. But not the authentic William Wallace, who was a polyhedral and contradictory character: they would like to be like the William Wallace of the film, be like Mel Gibson. But they are not so; the reality is much less epic, much less courageous. The reality is that while irresponsibly on day 3 they threw the masses against the institutions, setting up barricades and wreckage of urban furniture, trying a Catalan spring, while doing that, they went to the queues of the banks to take out their money from Catalonia and to take out their loans from Catalonia. Therefore, properly manage their frustrations and their complexes, but do not blame the king of them. The king only had to comply with his constitutional obligations. Thank you very much for your attention, and live the king of Spain. Thank you. [[Let's give the rialles a round of applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.59.0	We called for a vote. [[Pause.]] Is there a petition, meanwhile, for a separate vote? [[Pause.]] I understand you don't. Let us, therefore, vote on the motion for a resolution creating a commission of inquiry into the monarchy. We therefore vote on the joint motion for a resolution. The vote begins. The Proposal for a resolution of creation [[applause]] ...of a commission of inquiry into the monarchy [[applause persists]] ...has been approved by 71 votes to 56, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into gender equality]] [[302-00068/12]] Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into gender equality. Presented for the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress, Ms Beatriz Silva has the words. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.60.0	It's already here, right?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.61.0	When you want, Congresswoman, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.62.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] I'd like to thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.63.0	Quiet, and please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.64.0	... first of all to the representatives of the parliamentary groups who have tabled amendments, especially the two colleagues with whom I have negotiated, who I believe have been infected with the sorority of these dates and have been very flexible in the negotiation. A recent report by ACC on the announcements of toys issued during the last Christmas campaign in Catalonia reveals that in three_of_each_four announcements girls appear looking after a doll or a doll. This figure rises to 84_per_cent if we add those ads where animals or pets take care of stuffed animals or pets. Children, on the other hand, are seen in activities of action or that involve creating. While they produce, build bridges or fight, they take care of them. From early childhood, the message we send to girls is that their role is to take care of others, something that marks the rest of their lives, because taking care of children, domestic work, dependent people, is an activity that continues to be unremunerated and explains to a large extent why women are poorer. According to a study by the Foessa Foundation in 2014, if we calculated the poverty line individually, and not on the joint household income, we would have as a result that half of the women in our country are at risk of poverty, and they are because they dedicate hours and hours to occupations that are unpaid and prevent them from entering the labour market or forcing them to accept part-time contracts for long periods of their lives. This is not free, it translates into less income, less chance of rising to positions of responsibility and less contribution for retirement; ultimately, at a higher risk of poverty. The aim of this motion is to move forward with measures to resolve this issue, which is fundamental to progress on equality, so that care-related work begins to have social and economic value. Several points of the motion are aimed at this, but also at focusing on those women who suffer the hardest forms of poverty and who should try to prioritize public policies: older women who survive with pensions of less than five hundred euros, single or divorced mothers who are alone in front of the home. The reality is that 43 per cent of the single-maritime families in Catalonia live below the poverty line, and that is because we are not doing enough. This motion also seeks to improve the situation of great precariousness suffered by hotel maids, despite the fact that the wealth generated by tourism in Catalonia depends largely on their work. She wants to focus on caregivers and domestic workers who work in black, do not contribute to social security and, in many cases, receive salaries of three hundred or four hundred euros. Tomorrow we celebrate International Women's Day, and it is time to remember that we need to fight against the gender gap, but also against the dream gap of the Dream Gap campaign, which has circulated these days to denounce how we limit our girls since childhood, as we do not encourage them to dream of being engineers or scientists. The report of the ACC to which I referred notes that we not only tell our girls that they have to take care of others; we encourage them to be princesses or to imitate professional roles as hairdressers or waitresses, which encase them. When we use the word "creating" in advertising toys directed at them, it is not to tell them to make a building, it is to tell them to make bracelets of friendship. The only children's announcements that encourage physical care are directed at girls. Some data that as a whole reveal how little we have progressed in our society's vision of women. "If we stop, being for the world is the motto of the feminist strike on 8 March, because it is the responsibility of society as a whole, not only of women, to assume those unpaid jobs that allow the world to function. This motion goes on all these issues and that is why it is important that we move forward. If this motion is approved, it will allow for a significant increase for the first time in budgets for women's policies, which since 2010 have been cut by 32_per_cent and which would double the current budget line with this proposal. In another year, when we re-celebrate on March 8, we could send a positive message: "After a decade of cuts, Catalonia doubles the budget allocated to women's policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.65.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then there is the word, to defend the papers presented, in the first place, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Elisabeth Valencia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.66.0	Thank you, Vice President. Councillors, deputies, deputies, good morning. There are many feminisms, and some of them are opposites, but what they have in common is equality between women and men. That is why we from our parliamentary group advocate a feminism that is plural and inclusive. I am pleased that my intervention is going to be constructive, but that is why I will not stop referring to facts that demonstrate the Government's failure to act on equality. The fight for equality between women and men is not a question of parties, it goes beyond that, it is a question of defending human rights. The important thing is to take steps to help achieve this equality, and that is why we must involve all, women and men, in this struggle. This is not to subjectively evaluate who is more or who is less feminist; this is to take measures that go in the same direction, row all in the same direction, and all, to achieve a more egalitarian society. We have many problems that affect women and that require solutions. To combat the scourge of macho violence, which is the ultimate expression of inequality; macho violence is a very serious problem that needs the help, support and awareness of society as a whole. Also the wage gap, which in Catalonia reaches 23_per_cent; female poverty: seven_of_each_ten people who go hungry in the world are women; the job insecurity of women is very high, and we still have a lot of inequality in care and family work. In this sense, from Ciutadans we work to achieve full co-responsibility in care and family work. We have managed to extend paternity leave and we will continue to fight and work on this line. And what do we have in Catalonia? Well, we have a paralyzed government, a government that doesn't rule. Mrs Balada, president of the Institut Català de les Dones, came to explain to us the strategic plan of equality and did not present us anything, did not send us any plans. In fact, we do not know very well what Mrs Balada came to the Equality Commission last week. Beyond announcements and campaigns, this is a government without a real political agenda of equality. And it doesn't just say Ciutadans, I don't say it: it is being transferred by all civil society entities, experts who have been working for equality in Catalonia for years and defending women's rights say that there is no model of equality, that there is no real political agenda in Catalonia. We haven't had a strategic equality plan in years. That is why we have tabled an amendment to this motion, so that it can be tabled at once. We want to know the measures and we want to put them into practice in the policies and timetables. Equality policies in Catalonia continue to receive budget cuts – our partner commented –; more than 30_per_cent in equality policies has been cut. And we recall that it is the Government that has the primary responsibility, both to propose measures..., to promote measures and budgetary resources to these policies. In Ciutadans we are promoting policies that help to improve the problems that are structural and that do not allow us to advance as an egalitarian society, both here in Parliament, and in the Congress of Deputies, and where we have representation. We believe that education is a fundamental pillar in equality policies, and we have promoted measures to end sexism, to reduce the wage gap, the gender gap in technical careers, to promote equality policies in both companies and public administrations, and to combat the main social scourge that affects women, which is macho violence. Inequality exists and is a problem, and to change social dynamics we need a government that governs, we need all parliamentary groups, social entities, and all civil society. We must continue to move forward together and together. We show you, therefore, from our parliamentary group, full readiness, as so far, to collaborate in giving impetus to equality policies, while announcing that we will continue to control government action, or rather what the Government is not doing. We regret the inaction, we regret the lack of direction, we regret the lack of strategy that we have had for years in the various governments of the Generalitat. We must make social progress. Let's keep working, look for what unites us instead of differences, and move together and together towards effective equality. We hope that our amendments have helped to improve the text. We will support the motion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.67.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congressman Ferran Civic, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.68.0	With the venom. Good morning, in dic Ferran Civit i Martí and as part of the heteropatriarchate, consciously or unconsciously, actively or passively, with actions or omissions. When pornographic videos are repeated in groups of Whatsapp of men; when you do manspraading when part of a woman..., occupying more space in public transport; when it has not been treated as a woman than a man; when at the dinars of Nadal, curiously, women are always the ones who are more close to the kitchen; when they are told 'females' – that, well, what they say are the same people who tell us 'lazis, curiously'; that a woman is not for herself only because of a third person; when they buy a car thanks to a bikini; when they take the account of why they are knowing with a woman and bring it to you; when the hearts of the people have been told, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words, the words. Also when mediums keep artists with Arcadi Sword, Salvador Sostres or Joaquín Luna, or when women run and cry with people, but they are told to run and cry with children. Because we come from the moon, from a very long tradition, because « From the same place, neither gives nor pigs, « At all times the dog pisses and the woman cries, « Dona windowra, or whore or bitch, « Dona jove y homme velle no remei per il, « To the woman and the dumb, every day a beating, « House where the woman governs not only go well, « From women in a house, with one little, with two masses, « The woman seeks her first, beautiful and net, because big, she reads and brute already there becomes, « Dona occiosa can not be virtuoso, « Two girls and a sea, a hell for a father, that this is not only of popular tradition, but even they have managed to get away with it. And we also enjoyed it in children's songs, which I will logically make without music: « The cock and the hen were at the balcony/ the hen fell asleep and the hen made him a peto. What will the people say if they hurt more than they hurt? "Don Federico killed his wife/ made her pickle and made her into a frying pan. / The people who passed by smelled of roasted meat / was Don Federico's wife. Because we come from Lluny, but we also have a lean enough present, because "There are those who say that all men are abusers, "Most of the complaints of gender violence are false and "The prosecutors chase us and "Statistics are biased, "I have a daughter and I think it would be cynical to make a speech from my daughter against my son. And on a bus, also quite famous, this week: "It's not gender-based violence, it's domestic violence. Gender laws discriminate against men. Married, Rivera and Abascal, repeal gender laws. "Children dress in blue and girls dress in pink. « Every feminism ends up being a machismo with a skirt. « I don't speak for the Catalan press, but I make an exception because you are beautiful. "Women are going to welcome men in such a way that there will be no way to bind. « The only interesting thing that this lady exhibited was her neckline. « Right now, the girls are divided between those who know how to crawl and those who don't know how to crawl. « Watering must be used as for women, with great care, who can lose one. "Children don't like to read and write, and they're not always willing to learn to sew. « My dona has one of the same for raw stuff. « At home, my wife rents the stuff and I fix the TV. "I wouldn't rape you because you don't deserve it. « I've just been suggested a very entertaining game, it's very simple: all women throw themselves on the ground and they make themselves dead, and all of us throw ourselves on top and make ourselves alive. I would sum it up with two sentences, one with my father's language and the other with my mother's language: « Madam, go with God, that I stay with your daughter i« The drunk dona and I saw the cell cannot be. Being a man, as you know, is not an excuse to fight against masculinism, as being white is not an excuse to fight racism and being ‘ straight' is not an excuse to fight homophobia. The masculinism is well-lived and has generated no glass floor, but a glass hold, and some now want to reinforce it and even plaster it. The men we are, we're masclists, because that's how we've been educated, we want to stop being, and we feel ashamed of what some men do in the name of our generation. Recognising it is the first step. That masculinism is not a reality, but a past; that it is not a tendency, but decay. Not all men are rapists or assailants, but we have the responsibility to wing them, to make them disappear. The racist sees in the other the cause of his problems; the homophob, in the difference, the cause of his problems, and the male player, in the woman, the cause of his problems, and all three, I have no doubt, are over the free country I want. Women don't have to take more courage, we have to be the men we have to take more courage by facing a new model of masculinity once and for all. That a woman who goes alone on the street when she sees another man who's a believer on the street doesn't have to change her mind for that. Or, finally, in the institutional act that we made yesterday in the Palau de la Generalitat, in the murals that there was the only woman with a prominent paper was the Moreneta. That is why we will give support to the vast majority of the points made by Mrs Bea Silva, in others, if not, we will abstain on the subject of calendars. And I'm just taking advantage of the fact that the Catalan Institute of Donations has different parties, not just this one. And to end, with a lilac pen of the Forcadell Carmel, and remembering what the Lower Pain always says – today prisoners, both, politicians –: in the times that run, "a grog and lilac hug. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.69.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the turn of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and has the word French Congressman Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.70.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, without being presumed, who gave in Xavi Domènech, soc a man and soc feminist. Without being presumptuous or opportunistic, soc feminist, but I stress that leadership must be of the women, because inequality is still mass, mass great. But I want to accompany this fight for equal opportunities. So simple. Ask me the job and the struggle to mobilize for a fairer, more freer and more equal society. I'm a man who tries, who tries to go against patriarchy. From petit I was marked by that song that my Germans sang, which Ramon Muntaner sang and which seemed to me to be a letter from Pere Quart, which said: "When I am fifty years old I don't want to be like the father. A song of social criticism, which we may not share in the cent_per_cent today, but after time I understood that this was a criticism of patriarchy, and that today many – and as they are already – can be done, many and many songs of criticism of patriarchy. I'm a man, and I want to do the same with feminism for feminism and for feminism. And I am very pleased, as a member of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation Control Commission, that my country's television and public radio have made this effort to raise awareness, to produce, to inform and to debate this week of March 8. And I regret that Ciutadans and the PP, which deal with Vox, they tend to shut it down, this television and this public radio, and that, in change, the mouth of feminism decapitated and diluted is filled. I thank Congresswoman Beatriz Silva for her willingness to agree, and we have come to it so far as to ask, because we share this fight and because we will give support to most of the points. But let me pass a little, a reflection, share a comment with all of you. If we add the three motions that we're going to make today about gender equality, femaleization of the poor... that's more than a six-year-old. If we agree that politics is possible for the necessary, and it is very necessary, very urgent that we work on the issues that address these motions against male violence, in favour of gender equality, the feminization of the poor, the wage gap, the rights to women, inequalities, working conditions, family reconciliation, gender equality, professional career, insufficient pensions, difficulties for single-parent families, migrant women and low pay, etc., perhaps..., if it is possible to do all this, because it is obvious that it is possible to do all this, and I mean to do all this, maybe the formula of the three motions could have been overcome by some joint formula, unity, different. That said, to talk about today's motion, so I don't have much time, but let me make a couple of principled comments, from first to last, to say it in another way. In the first point I want to point out that the Government from the deployment of the Strategic Platform for Gender Equality policies will make an assessment of the resources allocated to all the assumptions of the Generality. But it is already advanced that apart from the 8_million in women's policies, as the motion says, this government devotes 37_million against male violence, 32 in specific programs, plus 5 in housing themes. And it also devotes many other presuppositional parties to family, work and other departments, linked to gender equality. Therefore, this government does and this government governs and all that it can't finish is because the hand that Artadi counsel offered from this same Faristol is still waiting, in the matter of assumptions, for a fit. For what it does later on, let me just explain that with the idea that we have substantially improved the original text, so that I kept the application in the priority mechanisms of social housing award provided for in the regulation of the table of economic and social emergencies in Catalonia, which was not reflected thus in the original, reinforcing the financing of entities that work with gifts and that are affiliated to the Social Inclusion Habitats Network. The song I've quoted just said: "We're still on time, still, still. / We will destroy a world/ stupid and soulless. / We dig the foundations/ of a higher life, especially for women. Thank you very much, Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can now be the turn of Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.72.0	Good morning to everyone, fellow Members, but above all fellow Members. Today is a great challenge for this Parliament, today this Parliament has the opportunity to stand on the road, on the road to feminist movement, has the challenge of having its function of control and legislation to the government at the time of advancing towards a future feminist. We have three motions today that will put us to the test and we hope that all the parliamentary groups in this Parliament will be on the rise. In order to advance towards equality, we need the agreements that are required in this young man. They are agreements and they are due that the government should do and that it is not doing, although they are provided for in the Law of Equality and the program they presented for the thirtieth legislature. The motion talks about the working rights of workers in the care sector, the rights of single-parent families, strategies against the feminization of the poor, housing, problems of social cohesion and reports that are planned, but we have not yet been able to find. We'll collect it in its entirety. However, we believe that the proposal sets out measures which are corrective, which are necessary, but which are insufficient. We think you have to question it. And what we need to change is the heteropatriarchal, capitalist and exploitative system in which we live. It may be questioned that the patriarchal rules of the game are those that give origin and maintain these inequalities. We have to change everything. That too. Any questioning of the labour market is intended to reconcile and to place the cures at the centre or basically to produce reduced wage costs and exploit natural resources, because a future feminist must also be a future environmentalist. Let's see if the public space is designed for everyone and, above all, for everyone. You can see the impact on the feminization of the poor of speculation with social function as housing; or the dismantling of the public sector, as affects the rights of women. It also addresses the impact of the foreign law's migration policy on the triple inequality suffered by migrant women. It is necessary to question the segregation of education strongly and without any nuance. Whether tax policy, housing price and labour market are really geared towards ensuring equal opportunities for single- and more rapidly-occurring families can be seen. Mrs. Arrimadas last year said she didn't want to go to the square because she was defending anti-capitalist measures. This year we don't know what he's gonna do, maybe he is. What we don't know is if he's going to go because now he does agree with what he's asking for, which is basically the same thing he was asking for last year, or because there are some elections on April 28. Yes, it's a vague one that also asks to change everything, also asks to change the capitalist system. But is it possible to talk about policies that prioritize putting the cures in the center, to break with the glass floor and with the land hooked, to guarantee a motherhood and a paternity conciliatory, to shield the public sector and the common benefits without questioning a system that goes towards a hyperproductive, hyperconsumer and hyperpredatory drift as is the current economic system, a system that condemns to precariousness, vulnerability, structural inequality millions of women from here and from the world; a capitalist and neoliberal system that enriches who has more, basically men, and the margin to whom you have less, basically women? When we talk about brave feminist measures, we talk about that. If we want a future feminist, we need to transform everything, we need to change everything. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Congresswoman Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.74.0	Well, this young man, with many of those who will present today, has measures to reverse gender inequalities. And what does that mean? Sectoral proposals that are women-oriented. But these motions also include proposals to actively promote equality. What does that mean? This implies applying the gender perspective across all public policies paying precise attention to the differentiating reality of women and men in society. Feminist political action, according to our opinion, has to include public policies geared towards these two areas. The references to the first sphere of action are the ones that have applied most from the institutions, and they are those that are oriented towards reversing gender inequalities. And the other ones are political that go a little further, that they're not so much bits and that they want to go above all to the scene of the problem. And, therefore, we are more in favour of this second set of policies. This calls for political will on the part of the Government, especially in the reorganisation, improvement and development and evaluation of political processes, and, therefore, so that the perspective of gender equality is incorporated into all public policies and all levels of administration, beyond the slogans or proposals we can approve in this House. But we need to go much further, we need to go beyond the transversality of gender; we need structural political actions, policies that face directly the patriarchal capitalist system, and that is essential. And because it is possible to move the centrality of the productive structure to put life in it and to let the interests of capital, which today are at the center of the productive structure, move away, because this freedom and this equality that we claim can never be true, it can never be true in a patriarchal capitalist system. And in our second intervention we will explain how we want to break with the current system and make proposals for respect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.75.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of MP Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.76.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, he gets used to saying that in the end, politics has a lot in common with marketing. And I would want to think that no; I would want to think that they can break with that saying. But it's true that it's random, isn't it? , that in this Ple of this Parliament which coincides precisely with the day of the celebration of the woman, of March 8th, of five motions that are presented, four are on the woman, on the women's rights in their different perspectives. And that doesn't have to be painful, whenever we make these motions work to improve the conditions of women's lives that at this very moment they live and work in Catalonia, right? That said, I think there's been a very damaging use of March 8th. March 8th is the Day of the Bride, it's the day of a common struggle, it's not the day of the woman against the man, it's not the day of the woman who criminalizes other women as complaints, demand and exercise their rights. It's the day of a common fight. It's the day that society makes and continues to make efforts to make equal opportunities a real fact, not only in the public administration, but also in the private sphere, isn't it? And I would believe in a certain... a certain cooperation and consensus, because I think that's what we're all involved in. With regard to the motion that has been put forward, we will vote in favour of it, and even with regard to the proposal to increase the presupposition of women's policies, despite the fact that the previous plenary approved precisely an initiative that forced the government to pass this Tuesday – we are saying – on the basis of assumptions and the provisions here in Parliament. Because it seemed to me to hear the Juntes represented for Catalonia that they are working there and seem to have brought some assumptions to this House of Parliament. Home, please respect the will of the Catalan citizenry, which forced them to make an agreement at the last Tuesday meeting and bring some assumptions here. That said, we have only found one thing missing, which I think we should work in the future, which is the specific protection of the rights of women with disabilities. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , that in the end they are the collection still more...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.77.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.78.0	...disadvantage of everyone we've talked about.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.79.0	Thank you. Thank you, Congresswoman. Now to pronounce on the papers has a _second turn to the deputy Mrs Beatriz Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.80.0	Thank you very much to all the Members for their speeches, for their contributions and for the support you have expressed for this motion. I wanted to make a quick comment on the amendments. With regard to the amendments tabled by the Ciutadans Group, we have accepted them because we believe that they add to the text, especially the amendment that has been added and that it says in relation to the Strategic Plan for Gender Equality Policies; we believe that it is important and we appreciate the contribution. For this very reason we have accepted the amendment by the Junts per Catalunya and the Group of the Republicà groups on housing, and we have agreed to make the deadlines for the deployment of some measures a little more flexible, because we believe that it is important that they be adopted. It is true that we have not accepted some amendments, for example the one that it says in relation to the national pact for combating redistributive inequality and the feminization of poverty, which contemplates the plan of government, because we believe that in this we cannot wait any longer; we must put in place as soon as possible in order to prevent the situations of poverty that I described in my question from continuing to be chronicled, especially considering that it is among the measures that the Government itself has decided to push forward. For a similar reason we have not accepted what it says in relation to the biannual plan to encourage stable and quality occupation for women. I would like to remind you that 40 per cent of the contracts signed in Barcelona by women last year were less than a month long. And we believe that it is urgent to implement this plan and to have its respective impact report. We hope that in both cases these issues will be brought to the fore and finally approved. This motion aims to move forward on a very important issue, and it is that of deploying the Equality Act that was adopted in 2015 and that is an indispensable tool to combat the wage gap, precariousness and many other issues. And we believe that this law cannot be forgotten in a drawer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.81.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] While we ask the group if there is any separate motion for a vote on this motion. [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.82.0	We would call for a separate vote on point 3 and 7a, which could be voted on together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.83.0	Okay. Any other petitions? Don't you? [[Long break.]] Let's start the vote... [[Pause.]] The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He forgives – he forgives –; they asked for a separate vote. Excuse me. We'll vote first points 3 and 7 and then the rest of the vote. You're right. So, start voting points 3 and 7.a, huh? Three and seven. The vote begins. Points 3 and 7 were approved by 66 votes in favour, against and 60 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the rights of women and gender inequalities]] [[302-00069/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government about the rights of women and gender inequalities, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. To expose her, Ms. Susanna Segovia has the word. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.84.0	Well, good morning. Tomorrow is March 8th, Working Lady's Day – we don't forget that it's Working Lady's Day, which seems to be oblivious to this little concept–, and the feminist movement has called for a wave and mobilizations that one year more will be massive. This Parliament must be at the height of these mobilizations. And no, of course it's not a coincidence that there are motions that claim the rights... the equality between men and women the day before March 8th, of course it's not a coincidence. It is a duet and it is an obligation of this Parliament to give an answer from this institution to which millions of women will be asking on the street. Therefore, Mrs. PP – because it seems to the Lord that they are not interested in the subject – there will be millions of people asking for something tomorrow and you will not be there to accompany these petitions. In fact, we have a proposal for an institutional declaration that has the support of six of the seven groups in this Parliament and that their party is blocking; so we are trying to move forward with a consensus, but it seems to me that the fact that the People's Party is the only group that is not tomorrow, and Vox, says a lot of what the People's Party thinks of equality between men and women. We believe that here we need to build a debate on these motions, and we will put ourselves in this sense. We thank the companies of the CUP and the Socialist Party for the motions that have also been presented and that we fully share, each and every one of their focus. We believe that there must be a structural fight against inequality between men and women; it has not been four years since Zara's brand of theft made some bodis for children and children in English, because it is not so well known, it was said that the children were to be beautiful and perfect, and the children, intelligent and "wow, and Carrefour said: "What of the champion and the cook. To fight against inequalities, we insist, as a feminist government. It's a feminist government that governments, that sets resources and completes their commitments, a government that has a presuppositional compromise on the rise, and now we don't have it. We need to move from words to fets, to politics, to resources. The key to feminism, of a feminist policy, is to address all women, without matter of origin or condition: to all, from their specificity. The future of feminism is in education, because we deserve a future feminist. There is an urgent change in policies, women's policies that put people and cures and life at the centre, which is not based on individualism or meritoracy, but on equal opportunities for all. It is a feminism that does not speak of individuality and that this individuality condemns others to be under the law of women and men. Because gender inequality is compounded by class inequality and origin inequality. We in the House wanted to point out those measures that the Generality could have already done as the institution to promote equality between women and men with the legal tools and resources that it already has at its bottom. We could have done it, we could have done it, we could have done it, we could have done it, we could have done it, we could have done it, we could have done it, we could have done it, we could have done it, we could have done it. A feminist government is now part of its own governance structure; for this reason, it is a council of feminists and LGBTI, which makes visible the resources and policies that are done in a focused way, along the lines of transversality, which is also important. A feminist government must generate assumptions with a gender perspective; it cannot award contracts to companies that fail to complete gene clauses, gene clauses must not be a recommendation, they must be a requirement. A feminist government does not wait four years to have a distinction of business excellence in terms of equality. We need bold changes and policies, and we need them now, because we have a mud land and a glass floor. We need a sexual and reproductive health strategy that's on the rise and that ensures that all people who want to get access to free oral contraception. We need to fight against sexual rape against minors, against discrimination, for the right to decide of all. We need real co-education; not just that there are children and children in class, but that the teacher has training, resources, pathos and activities with gender perspectives. We need a tax system that doesn't penalize women and cures, because we want cures and life at the center, like the axes of a new pact of time and hourly reform. There are women who see a double and even a triple oppression: by women, by class, by origin. Workers in the care sector need concrete measures to defend their rights. Women deprived of liberty need the prison system to be designed for men and designed for men. We need measures that guarantee the relationship of migrating women and allow them to get out of the exclusion. We need a government of Catalonia feminist, on the rise of the thousands of women who will say that we are going to change everything. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the turn of Mrs Beatriz Silva's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.86.0	Good morning again, deputies, deputies. First of all, I would like to say something that I did not get to say in my previous speech, because I thought it was three_minutes, and I think it is important to highlight the three motions on equality that have been brought to this plenary today. I believe that they all contain proposals that are necessary and complementary, because they affect different aspects that affect women's lives and that there is an urgent need to resolve them. From my parliamentary group we will support virtually all the points of this motion, and I would like to highlight two issues which I believe are fundamental and which were not included in my own motion. One of them is that this motion reminds us of the need to support the feminist strike of tomorrow, which, I would like to stress, has not been convened here alone, but in one hundred and fifty countries where women will join in some form of protest. Last week, during the interpellations, we had the opportunity to discuss some of the problems affecting women in Catalonia, but it is good to remember that tomorrow's strike also demands issues that, although they seem more distant, are not less important. According to the latest UN Women report, it is women who suffer the most from food insecurity in the world and the first to sacrifice their food if food is scarce. There are still forty-nine countries in the world that do not have legislation against gender-based violence, forty-five that do not have forms aimed at sexual harassment and thirty-seven that exonerate rapists if they marry their victims. Rape against women and girls has become a weapon of war in many countries. In places like Afghanistan, women are stoned, and in many others, they are subjected to female genital mutilation. Women suffer all kinds of violations, as well as violations of their rights, some as basic as access to health and education. The celebration of International Working Women's Day, as Mrs Segovia reminded us, is a call that crosses borders one day to share the problems we share with women, beyond our political options. That is why it is important to support and join the feminist strike on 8 March. Supporting the feminist strike of tomorrow is not a question of "feminazis", as the bus from Hazte Oir says, to which this motion also mentions. It is a way of manifesting ourselves in front of an issue that we did not imagine would happen a year ago, when the feminist tide overflowed the streets. And it is that the political movements and formations that question women's rights have been gaining strength and have entered our institutions, conditioning other political formations. They walk through the streets advocating intolerance, towards sexual diversity, towards different family models, and questioning the rights of women who have cost decades of struggle, such as the right to abortion or the recognition of sexist violence as a violation of human rights, as established in our current legislation. The recent government pact in Andalusia has meant a setback for women, because it has allowed these speeches to enter institutions, legitimized a proposal that means a step backwards in women's rights. The decision of the People's Party and of Ciutadans to allow an ultra-right formation that has among its main demands to eliminate the laws that try to combat macho violence, but which also denies that there is gender-based violence, is an issue that should mobilize us to overflow the streets tomorrow. From my group we had tabled an amendment to this motion on the proposal to set up a 'feminism and LGBTI council', not because we are against putting these issues at the centre of government policies, but because we believe that it is a cross-cutting issue and that it also needs a cross-cutting figure to ensure that equality is a backbone of all the 'conselleries'. However, we agree on the fundamental issue of prioritizing and putting equality policies at the centre of government action; we share it, and also the need for human and economic resources to be guaranteed in order to do what is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.87.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, it is the turn of Congresswoman Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.88.0	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillors. Virginia Woolf claimed that a woman needs money and a room of her own to write novels. In other words, this text, which in principle was not a feminist text, but a series of conferences to talk about women and literature, ended up becoming fundamental to feminism, and I say it is fundamental to the double meaning of the word. Things have changed a lot since the 1920s until now, but the reality is that women have to keep fighting for money and a room of their own or, what is the same, equal pay and a space where they can live free the very novels of our lives. The ways to achieve these purposes – money and a room of their own – are varied, and that is why I like to talk more about feminism, in plural, because there are different feminist positions, all legitimate, and all feminists have in common the defense of effective equality between men and women. From Citizens we claim a liberal feminism, in the line of Clara Campoamor, and from here I would like to thank my colleagues of the municipal group of Sabadell, because thanks to them now in that city there is a square called « plaza Clara Campoamor. And the truth is that these days I take my hands to the head with the things I'm hearing about liberal feminism, obviating figures like Clara Campoamor, who is not only one of the architects of female suffrage here in Spain, as is Stuart Mill in Great Britain, but who was also a great defender of poor women at a time when it was very difficult to be a defender of poor women in Spain, and she dedicated a great part of her life to that. The truth is that I am also surprised that we are given feminism lessons parties that in their life have presented as number 1 to the Generalitat a woman. [[Greetings.]] I also take my hands to my head when Mr. Alfred Bosch – with all my affection I say – intends to give us lessons of feminism when Esquerra Republicana does not put a woman on the list by mistake and when they keep Mr. Lluís Salvadó in his seat, who already know what he thinks of women and the merits of women. The truth is that we in Citizens have the privilege of being the only party that has presented a woman who has won the elections here in Catalonia, and we have the privilege of having a woman who has been the only opposition leader here in Catalonia, so, feminism lessons, justices, huh? We are not dogmatic and we accept that there are different feminist positions. But it is that feminism is no one's heritage, it is no party's heritage, it is that there is nothing less feminist than telling a woman what to do, there is nothing less feminist than treating women with paternalism. Women are free, and no one has to tell us what we have to do or what we have to think. Women do not need the guardianship of any party, let alone the men of any party. I am very clear that, to me, that all my life I have been a feminist, no man will give me lessons in feminism. I personally don't like a woman's day sign with a man and no woman. To me these posters of « Othello, returns the man..., which, by the way, know where he comes from? It comes back from a drop in paternity that it has achieved thanks to Citizens, because it is that the proposal was of Citizens! [[Greetings. Widow's remorse.]] It can't be that the parties tell us women what we have to do with our bodies. It cannot be said that women who decide to participate in the surrogate pregnancy as ‘a farm for poor women'. And, above all, feminism cannot be used to disrespect anyone. And in this sense I would like to quote the words of a woman whom I have admired all my life, who is Carmen Alborch, who says: "Every debate enriches, provided it is not going against ourselves. Some people want us to get out of the bag, but we're not going to consent. Feminism is not a catechism, and everyone lives it in their own way. Big words from Carmen Alborch that I couldn't agree more with. And, already with regard to this motion, we as liberals, of course, respect the right to strike and demonstration, and I wanted to thank Mrs Segovia for having accepted an amendment so that there would be free Spanish courses. Migrant women have great mobility and these Spanish courses are very necessary. It seems a lie that you have been forgotten and that it was so hard for me to convince the amendment. Then, when you put the ballot boxes in places like the Raval [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , where people who come from other parts of the world live, are full...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.89.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.90.0	... –yeah, I'm done – they're full of citizens' votes. Normal: we understand your needs much better than you do and demonstrate it with our proposals. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.91.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Baró has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.92.0	Well, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the public believe that you are accompanying us here today, from our point of view, the real and effective equality between men and women is in the essence of freedom, freedom from women, in the broadest and deepest sense of the word; freedom from movement and action; freedom from choice; freedom from thought and opinion; freedom to desire; freedom to commit errors; freedom to access power and exercise it; freedom to be masters of our own thing, to estimate and to live our sexuality as we please and with whom we want, without having to give explanations; freedom to have children and freedom not to hold on to it; freedom to be masters of our own thing, to cherish and to live our sexuality as we please and with whom we want, without giving explanations; freedom to have children and freedom not to hold on; freedom to be masters of our own thing, to esteem and to live our sexuality as we please and with whom we want, without having to give explanations; freedom to have children and freedom, if we do not want to be free to have social pers and freedom, to feel, to be able to pray, to pray, to pray, to pray. But, it counts, freedom to exercise all these rights, all these freedoms and many others, without prejudice to the fact that they are women, is to say, without retribution, without being invisible, without prejudice, without guilt, without self or alien, without condescension, paternalism, taxes, snorkels, sarcasm, without social pressure, without institutional pressure, without judgment of value or morality, without violence of any kind, without causes, without reprisals, without submission, without obvious or obscure. In this life and encounters of everything, misogyny, sexism, anti-feminism, negationism, even disdain – we have witnessed an obvious show of disdain respecting the subject – and even there is who, to compensate for their shameless support for openly and blatantly masculinist parties like Vox, end up binding and end up self-defeating and boasting of liberal feminism. The masculinism has many cares and is often diffused and whitened in speeches, justifications and excuses of all kinds, surrealistic many times. But, to our mind, it seems obvious to us that we are at the same time still that real and effective equality between men and women is a reality, because, if not, there are many things that would not happen. Women would not suffer male or sexual rape of all kinds, in all sorts, with absolute impunity with aggressors. The women would not suffer a poor structural situation that is particularly intense with us. We don't constantly encounter glass braids that prevent us from moving forward and occupying positions of power and command. The ladies wouldn't charge less for the same work men do. The women would not assume in a very majority and solitary way the healing work or the domestic tasks. Women would have the same presence quantitatively and qualitatively as men in public life and in decision-making bodies. Women could manage as well or as poorly as so many times with so many men. Women would not be harmed by our image, our body, our style of life, nor would we suffer a suffocating aesthetic pressure to look like Barbies and fit into very determined aesthetic models. The women would have female referents in all spheres, etc. Many anonymous women, before us – and unfortunately almost only women, because even in the struggle against oppression the feminist struggle, therefore, is secondary – have struggled for our rights and against discrimination for reasons of gender. But masculinism is so retarded in us, in our conception of the world, and it is subtly or explicitly manifested in so many situations, that many times it is very difficult to have full awareness of it. The motion we are debating is ambitious, with a cross-cutting vocation and with a vocation to influence and ensure public policies with a gender perspective; including points of salvation strategies up to gender clauses in contracts with the Generality, through measures that boost business excellence, conciliation measures that do not negatively impact the economy of women, etc. It is a reason for the substance and the sense of which we fully regret that we cannot give an answer with all the magnitude that we surely..., that "surely not, that we desire. Therefore, we will vote there, as it cannot be otherwise, in favour. And I take advantage from here of sending and making and recognizing Carmel, Martha, Pain, the Anna, Meritxell, the Lluïsa..., so many anonymous rebellious women and all honest men who do sympathize with feminism and act accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.93.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of MP Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.94.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Councillors, Members of Parliament, Councillors, Parliamentary Workers, Parliamentary Workers, Members of the Honourable People of Catalonia who accompany us, welcome you. To speak today of this motion and of the position of Junts for Catalonia I like it; I like it because we defended, during which we could say all this week, the week of the woman, just before the International Day of the Working Lady, as Susanna, the companion Susanna, has said. But I especially like it because here in the Parliament of Catalonia we have been working on this issue for months now, and the gender equality platform that is unfolding in this institution is noteworthy. I remind Members that they have not done so that there is a question they must answer in accordance with this plan of equality. This plan, in fact, is linked to the Law 17/2015, of effective equality between women and men, and passing the law I have been able to prove that, oh surprise! , the Ciutadans Group voted against the quotas guaranteeing parity and that the PP Group together with the Members of the Union, now at the PSC, voted against the right of women to decide on their own. Five things. Well, the Parliament, in this legislature, as we have already commented, is developing the Gender Equality Platform; we have approved motions around the eradication of male violence, where we commit ourselves not to compromise with extreme right-wing groups. And it is that the visibility of the problem we face is one of the objectives of all the work we do around women. The motion we are debating is very broad, as we have said, cannot be otherwise, it is cross-cutting, it affects almost all government departments, but let me make it a reality. Last week, I was given this boss – this boss – by a group of rugby players, in fact, from the Barcelona University Sports Centre, from the rugby team, and here is this visibility of the woman, this fight for the equality of the woman where we have to fight, because the woman fights and has to be the winner against stereotypes in the defense of equality in the world of sport. It's a big issue, especially because the Spanish Sports Law does not defend, does not recognize women's sport as a professional sport, does not recognize the professionalism of women who are engaged in sport. And here we have a few deputies who have been professional sports and Spanish law doesn't recognize them. Fortunately, we are working from the government and from the Catalan Sports Council on a Catalan law of sport that does recognize the professionalism of women in the world of sport and that ends with abusive clauses such as those that ask to take away the women that are embarrassed. Returning to the movement, and thanking the disposition of the Catalonian Group in Comú We can accept many of the points that we have proposed, I consider that the first two points are essential; my group gives full support to the feminist vagueness of March 8th and to the other point, we manifest our deepest rebuff on the Hazte Oír hate bus. For what she does to the vague feminist, I'll talk about it later. But for what he does to the Házte Oír hate bus, we can only ratify our profound rebroadcast to this hate bus, and we take advantage of it to thank the Generality for having opened a sanctioning expedition so that this bus will never return to the carts of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] And we invite other territories in the Spanish State and in Europe that do the same. We do not want the extreme right to our streets, our seats or our parliaments. And, taking advantage of the fact that we do not want the extreme right in our parliaments, I take advantage of the shameful action that it was to see the European Parliament yesterday as a neo-feixist coven with the secretary general of the Vox party. [[applause]] , a party with which you have agreed the Government, you, Ciutadans and PP, the Government of Andalusia, where the Lord, to say it in some way, Ortega Smith threatened to soften a Member, a European MEP, and insulted President Puigdemont. Shame on you, Mr. Tajani, Shame on you. [[Greetings.]] Shame of the European Parliament. Precisely, and finally, this secretary of organization today is accusing our companies and our companies in the farce trial in Madrid. And I can't do another thing but remember above all the women, who feel double oblivions, and ask that this March 8th we go to the vague feminist for all the women, but especially for you, Carmel; for you, Pains; for you, Meritxell, Clara, Meritxell, Anna, Marta, Ramona, Anna and, especially, for you, Tamara, for all the women who are retaliation every day. Aim for the vague feminist! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.96.0	Look, I've got two minutes and a half; I'll try to go very fast. We have seen a exercise in hypocrisy and cynicism for most of the parties that have intervened today on the basis of this young man. In the first place, the Government, while the bus of Hazte Oir was walking through the streets of this city, encapsulated the militants and encapsulated the popular movement that, with the head, the body and the color we stopped this bus to the city of Barcelona. So, of hypocrisy, there's enough. For another band, respect feminist policies, put life in the center with feminism to change everything, the memories that Esquerra Republicana, Junts per Catalunya and Ciutadans voted together that it is possible to sell all those public enterprises that are and that support the services that are necessary to sustain life. And, therefore, you have no problem in allying yourself when it comes to not guaranteeing public services. And where we don't go up to the public, we get the ladies, we always get us. And, therefore, less hypocrisy, more actions, less words and more feminist political action is what is needed in this Parliament. And, on the other hand, respect Mrs Segovia, she also spoke of a feminism of putting life in the center, and we agree with that. He talked about anti-capitalism, he talked about running this system. What? What's his proposal? We're clear on that. We want to self-determine, we want a national, social and generative liberation. We want to capture political, cultural and economic relations. We want to put life at the centre of the productive structure. We don't think this state is reformable. Do you think so? Do you think this state can be reformable? Accompany us on this path to self-determination; accompany us on the social, national and generative liberation of our people. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.97.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mrs Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.98.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., the truth is that there is nothing with what the Machists, men and women, enjoy more than with the screams that have been heard from this Parliament's Faristol today. There's nothing to enjoy more. I, look, I'm going to tell you one thing: feminism, the struggle for equality, is not a matter of posture, nor of shouting, nor of pointing, nor of criminalization, nor of lilac ties; it's something that is practiced every day. And you, here, today, me, as a woman, a voter or not, a member or not of the People's Party, have made me feel ashamed. We are not that Lila party that refused to participate in the State Pact against Gender Violence, we are not that party that says it would whip women until they bleed, we are not that party that we put a picture of our male leader saying: "He returns, the alpha male, the one who practices love like no one else, right? It seems to be. We're not that party. We are the party of the first woman mayor in democracy in Spain, the first party that put a woman in charge of the Senate, the first party that put a woman in charge of the Congress of Deputies, the first party that had two presidents of autonomous community, the first party that put a woman in charge of the Ombudsman, twice, the first party that had a European Commissioner. Look, lessons, none, and screams either, or that it is out of parliamentary courtesy. And one thought: when someone needs to scream so much to defend their ideas, it is clear that something is wrong with him. And the second: we are trying to read an institutional statement in this Chamber in support of Women's Day on 8 March, and you have just pointed out here, in this plenary, as we do not agree with it. Hey, it was you who excluded us from that email, as a parliamentary force representing hundreds of Catalans, and we were unable to make any amendments until yesterday afternoon. You deny us the possibility of even being able to comment. So don't blame us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.99.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the name, now, of the group proposing and to position itself on the issues, has the new word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.100.0	Well, first of all, I don't think I've cried. If I cried and it looked like that, apologize; it was not the intention, to cry. Anyway, he wasn't looking at me when he was talking, and I guess that's not really a teaching symptom either. There's been talk of feminism in plural. We agree with feminism in plural, and it is not a theme of lessons, but I think that in what we disagree with is the diagnosis of why feminism should fight for equal rights between men and women, which is what is at the heart of feminist struggle. The liberal feminism that you proclaim, obviously it is totally dignified and defendable, but we do not share it, because we believe that it does not attack the causes that actually cause inequality. It's that simple. It's not a matter of what feminism is better than worse. But tomorrow's wave, the March 8 wave, tomorrow's wave, is a feminism that says that the capitalist system is what brought us this and that the liberal system is not. It's the same as last year and you didn't go. I have to tell you something about the sign that came out repeatedly. I'm telling you, this is a mistake. It's a mistake, that sign, it's a mistake the message you send. It is, it is. And I think it's necessary to be able to recognize it, as it was recognized yesterday by Pablo Iglesias himself. But I also think it has to be recognized that it was a mistake not to go to the March 8th spot last year, and that we haven't heard, either, from Citizens. It is true that they have the first head of opposition, and they recognize this merit, but it is also true that it was not here when equal motions are discussed. [[Widow's remorse.]] I mean, also, what's the priority of the opposition in these issues? [[Greetings.]] Nor is it a question of lessons, but we are the only group that has the three main parts of the parliamentary group that are women and, moreover, the first mayor of the city of Barcelona. I mean, it's getting into a competition that I don't really know where to take us. I would like to congratulate you on finally reaching a consensus text for the institutional declaration. I don't know why they didn't include people from the People's Party in the mail. Maybe because they don't normally participate actively in the Equality Commission. [[some applause]] And then, sometimes, it's hard to keep them present. But, anyway, I believe that, among all of us, we must celebrate that we have this text and that this Parliament will be able to produce an institutional declaration that puts this Parliament at the height of the thousands of women that will be on the street tomorrow. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.101.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. Tell me, Mrs. Baro, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.102.0	For the sake of contradiction...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.103.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.104.0	... – yes – in a statement made by the deputy of the PP. It seems important to us to insist that, by historical rigor, the first democratic mayoress both in Spain and Catalonia is Nativity Yarza, of Esquerra Republicana, in the Second Republic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.105.0	Yes, Mrs. Sierra, why did you ask me for the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.106.0	For contradictions, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.107.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.108.0	To see, first of all, we have said it and we will repeat it again, but continue with their lies. We, as liberals, give freedom, as it can't be without... no, we don't: it's that people have freedom to add themselves or not to a vacancy. [[Widow's remorse.]] The same way Mr. Echenique says he won't do it tomorrow...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.109.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.110.0	...because you have a lot of work, there are many women who work, or by the decision that it is..., follow it or not. We took part in it last year, how we would take part in it. And, of course, it's that they were wrong about this year's billboard, but it's that they were also wrong about last year's billboard. [[The speaker shows it.]] « Dona Day, and in the accounts of a woman we have a man. This is feminism for you, it seems perfect to me; it is not our feminism. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.111.0	I thought we'd asked for a separate vote from the points... [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia, per...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Not allusions; in any case, contradictions, because it's what they have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.112.0	For contradictions and for correction. I had to add: "the first mayor since the restoration of democracy; I recognise this to Congresswoman Baró. And second of all, tell Congresswoman Sonia Sierra that maybe she doesn't know that tomorrow is a general wave of women, not men. And that's why I don't think that Mr. Echenique is on the spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.113.0	Separate votes: I have been asked, say, points 3 and 10, for one band, which can be voted in block, i 19.b and 13, from another, which can also be voted in block. Any more petitions? [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.114.0	We would add two blocks: one, which would be point 4, 18a and 18b, which would be able to vote together, and another, 14b and 15.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.115.0	I'm sorry, 14...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.116.0	... b de« Barcelona...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.117.0	... b de« Barcelona, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.118.0	...and 15.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.119.0	...and 15. Okay. So, we're going to vote for these four blocks and the rest of the vote? Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. No, no, it's just that Mr. Rodriguez also asked for the word. Now then... say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.120.0	Yes, we asked for the separate vote from points 1 and 2 as well. [[someone exclaims]] of 13 [[remorse of the voice]] – I don't know if anyone thanks... – and 19.b separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.121.0	If it looks like it, we'll vote for all the points separately because there are different blocks that don't match those that I had previously asked for. If it seems to them, we vote separately all points. I suppose that's why, Mrs Bravo, you asked for the word, by separate vote. We do all the points, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. Let us proceed to the vote, then; therefore, we shall vote in favour of the motion. Start the vote with the first point. The vote begins. The first point was approved by 125 votes in favour, against and two abstentions. Let's vote point number two. The vote begins. This point was approved by 124 votes to one, with two abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. The third point was approved by 14 votes in favour, against and 113 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number four. The vote begins. The fourth point was approved by 67 votes to 60. Let's go now and vote point five. The vote begins. The fifth item was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 6. The vote begins. This point was approved unanimously: 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's go now and vote point seven. The vote begins. The vote was adopted unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the 8th. The vote begins. The eighth point was approved unanimously, that is, 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote number nine. The vote begins. Point 9 was approved by 126 votes to none, with 1 abstention. And now we're going to vote point 10. The vote begins. The request was approved by 67 votes in favour, against and 60 abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 11. The vote begins. This point was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 12. The vote begins. Point 12 was approved by 126 votes to none, with 1 abstention. Let's now vote point number 13. The vote begins. Point 13 was approved by 123 votes to three, with one abstention. Let's go now and vote point number 14. The vote begins. The fourteen points were approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point 15. [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, say'm, Mrs. Caula. [[Anna Caula and Paretas intervenes without using the microphone.]] Subpoints? Okay. So point 14 and we'll vote on the subpoints of point... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? They can vote together, a i b? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? Separately; very good. So let's start voting 14th–14th. The vote begins. The 14th item was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. And now we're voting on 14.b. The vote begins. 14.b was approved by 67 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Now, yes, let's vote point 15. The vote begins. Point 15 was approved by 67 votes to 60, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 16. The vote begins. Point 16 was approved by 125 votes to two, with no abstentions. And now we're voting on the 17th. The vote begins. Point 17 was approved unanimously; 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Now we're voting on 18, but only on 18, then we're voting on the subpoints, huh? We're voting point 18, the announcement. There's the 18th point statement. If you want to do it at the end. Yeah? O... - No, no, [[Pause.]] So we vote on the 18th; we vote on the subpoints, and then, if there's anything left to vote on the 18th, we'll vote on it. We vote, therefore, on 18th–18th. The vote begins. Point 18 was approved by 67 votes to 60. Let's just go ahead and vote 18.b. The vote begins. Point 18.b was approved by 67 votes to 60. And now we're going to vote on 18.c. The vote begins. Point 18.c was approved by 127 votes to none, with no abstentions. I don't know if it's necessary to vote for the 18th-point announcement... [[Pause.]] We vote directly, therefore, on item 19. Yeah. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Separately – separately – yes; point 19a and 19b – 19a and 19b. Let's start voting on the 19th–19th point. The vote begins. The 19th item was approved unanimously, namely 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 19.b. The vote begins. Point 19.b was approved by 74 votes to 53, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the 20th. The vote begins. Point 20 was approved by 125 votes in favour, against and two abstentions. And finally we vote on point 21. The vote begins. Point 21 and later of this motion is approved unanimously, that is, 127 votes in favour, against and against. We now suspend the session until two-quarters of the late four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.122.0	Well, good afternoon. Let's resume the session... [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into trilingualism in education]] [[302-00070/12]] ...with the seven-point order of the day, which is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on trilingualism in education, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. And to expose it, Congresswoman Sonia Sierra has the word for five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.123.0	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon. I'm gonna start with a spoiler. The truth is, since we're very little, they're going to be lucky, they're going to be the first to know. And what I'm going to do is reveal what the nationalist spokespersons are going to say when they come out to this very atrium. They will say that the Catalan school is a model of success, internationally recognized, because then they already come up; although the reality is that it is neither a model of success nor has any kind of recognition outside of here. They will also say that yes, we need to improve the subject of English a little bit, but that we are doing quite well. And although the reality is that we are at the tail of Spain in the teaching of English. And you will also say that the Catalan school is multilingual, when it is actually a monolingual system, with only one vehicle language, which, by the way, ladies and gentlemen of the PSC, the few there are, to see if they tell Mrs Celaá that in Catalonia there is only one vehicle language and that you also claim that there is only one vehicle language. Because, of course, then it's fatal for me to lie about the interviews, saying that there is more than one language in Catalonia. Another thing they are going to say when they come out here, and they are going to say it very proudly, is that the Catalan school model, the so-called "linguistic immersion", is the only possible model, because they, who are very good people, do not want to segregate students because of language issues. If we take into account that the Catalan school model is so bad that it is not done anywhere else in the world, saying that this is the only model that does not secrete is the same as saying that students are segregated all over the world except here in Catalonia. And that's especially rare when people from the PSC or Podemos say it because it turns out that in the Valencian Community, where they rule, and in the Basque Country, where socialists have ruled, there are different lines depending on language choices. So, for me, there's a little bit of an ugly going around telling your classmates to segregate children, but, well, there you are with your classmates. Sounds pretty ugly to me. But, well, as I was telling you, it's that the Catalan school model is so bad, that there's no way to defend it with solid arguments, with figures, with statistics. And I'm going to give you the most obvious example. On Tuesday, I made a request for the attendance of two economic teachers – a professor and a professor of economics – who have made a report demonstrating that linguistic immersion is harmful to Spanish speaking students. Then I said, "Man, the great advocates of linguistic immersion will be wanting these gentlemen to come here, to prove to him with their data, with their figures, with their arguments, that what they are saying is a lie. That they voted against; they don't want them to come. And I said to them: "Man, but explain to him why, give me an argument. Quiet; quiet. You could see the straw balls over there... no one said anything there. Man, they don't seem to have any arguments. Another example. Counselor, with all my affection, I say to you, in the interpellation that I made, I gave you a cascade of data, of figures. You didn't cross one; you didn't answer one of my questions, you didn't give any data. Yes, what he gave us was a master lesson in how to be fifteen_minutes talking without saying anything but excuses of the type, and I quote literally, "the whole of his inquiry today does not answer the question, because it is the to raise the voice unnecessarily. Man, Mr. Counselor, I've seen excuses from ESO students better than this one. A very loose excuse, which proved not to be true, because then I asked the questions quietly and didn't answer me either. I mean, it's that they have no arguments, it's that there's no way to defend with solid arguments linguistic immersion, because it's a outdated model and it's a failed model, which, I insist, is not done anywhere in the world of how bad it is. But the reality is that you are impervious to data. But, come on, if you think you live in a republic, how are you not going to believe that Catalan school is multilingual, so if you are able to believe anything? But in the face of his mantras and his disqualifications..., because this also advances him: when they come out here they will put us green to those of Citizens. You will see how they speak ill of Citizens and accuse us of the worst intentions. Faced with his accusations, his mantras, objective data: only 6_per_cent of the Catalan centers give some subject in Spanish, only 5_per_cent give three subjects in English, only 0.1 offers Chinese as an optional subject and only 1.4_per_cent of the centers offer extra-curricular activities in some foreign language. As you can see, these are absolutely ridiculous figures, and more so if we take into account that in the rest of the autonomous communities they are already reaching 50_per_cent of bilingual centers. We want to end this compulsory monolingual system; we propose three vehicle languages, and we also propose that minors be protected, because unfortunately here in Catalonia, students whose families have asked for 25_per_cent have been harassed. We have repeatedly called for their support, for their protection from this Parliament; they have always voted against us, but we will continue to insist, because for us minors are sacred, unlike nationalists, that the only thing sacred to them is their ideology. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.124.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word, then, to defend the papers presented, for the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the MP Mònica Palacín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.125.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. Madam Sierra, please, then, when we do a few things, give me the numbers of 6/49, so I can make millions at my own chance, because like you know so many things and expect so many things, so maybe this way I end up winning the euros. Well, we were, out of jokes; out of jokes why is it that you have a companion of mine..., no, the counselor said: "What a joke this is, isn't it? It is obvious; it is obvious that you can come out here saying that "I already know what the nationalists will say. They are debates that we carry continuously; it is the continuous theme, it is its leitmotif, it is its motivation to exist. So it's normal for me to know that, let's say, the parliamentary groups that defend the language model do it with the dignity that it touches, that it's the dignity with which year 83 approved the language model, it's corroborated 98, with linguistic policy, and that it was, yes, a success model, yes, and so on, and it's already there. I don't pass re– no pass re. [[Greetings.]] Look, you, in the past plenary made the inquiry and was very, very, very interested in contrasting figures to the counselor. And you entered into a brutal contradiction. I'm a teacher, too. And he went into a contradiction, when he defended so much the Spanish language, that he said one thing, for me, gross, like the teacher, from the vocation; he said: "The only subjects where the Spanish is taught apart from the Spanish language are subjects like, 'ha! , visual and plastic and physical education. What will they teach them? , imperatives? Because, of course, what are they going to...? What a way of underprivileging the companies that make physical and visual and plastic education, in our classrooms, what a way! [[Greetings.]] Look, and I'll be right back, in the meantime, because it's time, and I want to talk about the papers, huh? I mean from 5 to 10, so, very quickly, say that we will approve them all; there are points in which there are two points that we are going to accept. And, in the end, they are, therefore, teacher training programs, at the technical level, at the human level, at the methodological level, and therefore... It is also certain that many of these points are points that have been approved in this chamber or to the education commissions, and therefore the department, therefore, already leads as an obligation to execute. And obviously also always – always – with the compromise to improve, always. I mean, we can't say that we're doing all right anymore and that we can't get any better; it's always going to get better, and above all at the concrete point of these points, which are the comfort of the angled language. A high school language teacher told me, who always – always – is training me to be able to teach my students better. For what it does at point 4, look, point 4, we can't approve it, because it's a pedagogical concept. It's like, stress classes, summer classes, primary school kids, for us, it's a pedagogical concept that doesn't come in. The estiu is to play – to play – and to go to the platja, and to go to the mountain, and in any case, if we learn, that it is in a playful way. That says they'll do it in Andalusia. So we've already looked at Andalusia, and it's a model, it's a model like the ones we have here: couples, summer clubs, where sports, fun activities combine. So let's not go that far. Therefore, you have accepted the emena or you have written this point in another way. That too. Point 3. Point three, we won't approve. It's not all right, is it? It's not all right. The department complements data protection legislation strictly. And maybe this point will be applied when you have dealt with particular cases of students using their names or in the case of the names of the IES Palau teachers when they did not hesitate to pawn their names and their private information to the networks. [[Greetings.]] And lastly, the two points that are the foundation of this young man; the points that they pretend to destroy the Law of Education, destroy the linguistic model. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I can tell you a lot of things, but I'm running out of time. That is to say, on proof of access to the university, an exhibition that the model of trilingualism works are the notes of access to the university, the selectivity, with the notes of the languages: 6.63 of català, 6.46 of castella, 7.41 of angled language. I highlight 7.41 because, as the rest of the points refer to English, it is as if the English level of our students were pathetic. And look, I'm done, because I'm out of time, tell him one last jifra: 2006, do they sound the date of 2006, the July of 2006? It's the year of his party's constitution. Therefore, another xifra: thirteen years; thirteen years that they bear justifying themselves, justifying their motivation to exist, that is to destroy the Catalan language model. They've tried it a number of times; they keep trying it every time they can. We'll try not to get it. And today will not be a case, fortunately, for the fate of all the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.126.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and Deputy Xavier Quinquilla has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.127.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... thank you, Mrs. Sierra, for anticipating other people's arguments. In any case, it may well be that you are concerned about the strength of your property, because there is actually someone who has been permanently installed in a war, who spends the day making those sick and evil, who has seen the conflict at any cost and who has no scruples trying to turn the school into a battlefield too. It is precisely here where this unscrupulous populism that Ciutadans practices finds his worst version, making problems where there is no and triggering the fire of a linguistic conflict that does not exist. This is the main reason why we are already voting against the first four points of her motion, the third of which, out of context, as we are used to, trying to criminalise our schools and our teachers again. In the first you ask for the modification of the LEC so that the Spanish and English can be vehicle languages, together with the català and also, I want to remember, the occidentity in the Vall d'Aran. Obviously, we will vote against it for two reasons. The first, conceptual. Listen, the'vehicle language...', the vehicle language is synonymous with a free language, a common language. There can't be two. The world's vehicle language, global, is English, and only English. The vehicle language in Spain is Spanish. In Catalonia, therefore, I look at Catalonia as well, because it is the one that knows 99 percent of the citizens, which is convenient in case of doubt. The català, even though it is official and close, and by a lot of normalization, a lot of immersion and a lot of willingness of some speakers, has it more complicated, and without being a vehicle language at school it would still be worse. But it is that, besides – and this is the second reason – the system of linguistic immersion, which counts on a broad social and political consensus, is a guarantee of cohesion and equal opportunities. And that's against the language rights of families who don't have Catalan as usual? So clearly not; the reason for which we will also vote against point 2 of the motion. And this generates dysfunctions, passes the bill on the academic results of students in general and in particular in Spanish language? So it's also quite bluntly not. And not because I say this: they say the results of the tests of competence carried out for the Generality and the Ministry of Education, they say the tests of basic skills, they also show the results in reading understanding in the later PISA report, where Catalonia is located by the middle of Spain and Europe. And, said that, let's go to the third language, the English domain, which focuses the rest of the points of his motion, a battery of proposals that do not suppose anything new because it has been a long time since the department implemented them, obviously always better, and that is why we would vote for them, with the incorporation of some points that we have raised and that you have accepted with good criteria. Now, what we can't share, from the point of view of the way, is this catastrophic vision of the learning of the English language, which for a variety of reasons is very far from reality and which, moreover, obvious the best educationals that the department has implemented over the last few years and that have resulted in such an impulse of learning of foreign languages as in a substantial better level of English of our students. And neither do I say this, but the British Council says it, that it is not a "xiringuit" and that, as a result of the Aptis tests, carried out in 2018 at fifty-one Catalan schools, the same as PISA tests..., according to which 66_percent of Catalan pupils have a level equal to or higher than B1, while the rest of Europe is so attached to this level only 42_percent of students. All this in a _marc in which the European Union wants 2020 to end at 50_per_cent. So look, in Catalonia we are at 66_per_cent and we plant ourselves that for the next four years we can reach 75_per_cent. This, Mrs. Sierra, is the reality. A reality, certainly, each time more diverse and plural, a reality where trilingualism is an obsolete concept, limiting and surpassed in a Catalonia where more than three hundred languages are convivial. A social, cultural and linguistic diversity that is already part of our educational system, that gives all meaning to a model that bets for multilingualism, interculturality, and that works to beat the doors of our schools to a global, complex and diverse world. A model, certainly, each time more extended of the monolingualism prevailing in the Spanish State and that among other things it certainly continues to situate at the level of English Europe, together with France and Italy. And I say so, Mrs Sierra, because, as I see them so busy and concerned about the governance of the Spanish State, and also the level of English, I invite them to reflect on which model they want. Do you want to open the doors or lock them? Does the recognition of diversity imply an opportunity or continue to feel a threat? Reflection. We're very clear about this. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.128.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then, in order to fix its position, has the word in the first place the MP Esther Niubó, of the Parliamentary PSC Group and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.129.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, the campaign of general elections is definitely at hand; this motion is not proof. But we finally see and we can know, so, what is Ciuta's proposal after years of talking about trilingualism. And his proposal does not pass what would be the shared goal for a majority of citizens, which would be that in finishing compulsory schooling the boys and girls perfectly mastered the catal and castle, as well as the English or a third language. No, that's not the model. The model is that parents can choose the language of schooling. And we're tired of repeating that there can't be the right to decide, the right to choose the language. Indeed, there is the right to education, which must be guaranteed for the public administration; there is freedom of choice of centres, but not the right to choose either centre or language. And it sounds good to us that's what it looks like. Therefore, what public powers must guarantee is precisely that at the end of this schooling the student remains highly competent both in català, as in castella, as in a third language. Now, the way this educational objective is set, it seems to me that we do not have to decide here a group of Members, but that it must depend on each centre, which must decide autonomously, depending on the composition of its student, the socio-linguistic reality of its surroundings, because Catalonia and its education system is neither monolingual nor uniform. So in a largely Catalan-speaking environment, therefore, the castle will have to be strengthened and in a predominantly Spanish-speaking environment, the català will have to be strengthened. It seems to me that this is not sacrilege, that it is simply common sense, for the benefit of children and young people. Now, it is true, the schools and institutes, in order to achieve these objectives, therefore, they need the necessary human resources, format and economics. A better advice from the centres at the time of making their linguistic projects would be welcome. And perhaps it would also be helpful to strengthen the formation of the faculty. And also evaluate the results better, be able to control that these objectives actually fall so as to review whether it is necessary or establish relevant modifications precisely in the learning of these languages, both officers and strangers. On the other hand, neither can we agree with its point 1, which sets the reform of the LEC to introduce new vehicle languages. We cannot make a modification of these characteristics without having data, without a correct assessment of the performance of the linguistic model of the education system. And at these times we don't have enough data yet. And, in order not to have, we have neither a teacher prepared to correctly impart non-linguistic materials in a third language. Now, what we defend is a model in which the català is the center of gravity, without that it can mean an insufficient presence or, obviously, not excluding it from the castle. But, go on, it seems to us that you, therefore, fill the mouth of trilingualism and at the time of contracting public workers – public, not private – do not consider it necessary to master the official language of Catalonia, for example. I think that, therefore, must be a selective trilingualism. And, therefore, the first two points we would vote against, and in changing the rest of the motion, so we share it mostly: more resources to strengthen English language skills... And for the sake of the Socialists and Units Group, we already presented and approved a motion a few months ago in this very sense, we talked about improving the initial formation, also the public offer of permanent formation of the teacher, of increasing the places of official language schools, above all those languages most requested; and here we have data in which, for example, centers both of Barcelones and of the East Valley can only cover up to 30_percent of the demand. Obviously, also the help; and here, therefore, we have suffered the increase in taxes in the last years from 50 to 180_per_cent and the flood of scholarships and help, which has meant that many families have been left out of educational opportunities and job placements. So, what we won't do is follow in harm's way. The model that we have at these times, although it is perfectable – and we have already pointed out some better needs in this intervention – is the one that has guaranteed real bilingualism, it is the one that guarantees the domain of the catal and the castle on the part of all young people at the end of the ESO, it is the model that ensures respect and learning these two languages and the normal coexistence of these to society, and also to the educational centers. And that's why we insist that we never get tired of repeating: we don't use either language or school politically, or some of them, and we check whether the model, we analyze the results in detail, but carefully, without biases and without instruments that go beyond the school. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.130.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, and has the words of the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.131.0	Yes, thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Sierra, you knew that we would say the rest of the parliamentary groups, and we knew what you would say. Then why would they introduce me again? It's just that I don't understand. Please stop wasting your time and stop wasting your time. Because it's because the public school has so many – so many, so many – things to improve that I don't understand why we have to be here as if it were the day of the marmot. Well, I do know that; I do know that, because you use the school and use the language as a political instrument, as a trigger gun to throw at everything there and all groups that don't think like you. That's the only reason. If you really cared about public education, we would be talking about lowering rates, about the barracks – which we know have also presented a thousand times but that it would not be the priority element–, how we improve funding, breaking down with the triple network and creating a pact against segregation that really stays solid and it is not just the paper, to listen to the educational community, that does not want to go against immersion, but what you want is working conditions that are still worthy so that you can do your job. Let's talk about how we improve the evaluation system, how we avoid and reduce dropout and school failure, how we improve the acquisition of skills, how we lower the rates, as I said, how we improve the planning of public places, the training of teachers and students, with a coherent plan, with a school that remains universal, that remains public, that continues to be inclusive, that continues to be feminist and that continues to be secular. So we can get better and we can find ourselves in a breakthrough and actually make education a state structure, if that's what we want. But what can't be is that you're constantly politicizing education and throwing at the whole doctrinal thing, with false charges of indoctrination and using immersion and language as a political weapon. So, do the favor of starting to respect the community, do the favor of starting to respect the studentship, do the favor of starting to respect the rest of the groups, stop wasting our time with some motions that..., if in the end we only stand in the linguistic immersion, we will not advance, and we have a lot of things to do. On the subject of English, a great deal needs to be done, and that is why we will support it at these points. But the rest, as always, is the day of the marmot. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.132.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, and has the word the deputy Carles Riera ; from the escó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.133.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, we find ourselves in front of Ciutadans's umpteenth motion against linguistic immersion; if we don't have one at every ple, almost, little is missing. And obviously, for the first time, we will be making a human wall to defend linguistic immersion in our educational system. And we'll explain why. Mirin, we want the català to be, as it is, official language, own language, but we also want the català to be common language among all the linguistic communities of our country, the Catalan Countries. And it seems to us that today linguistic immersion is the best instrument we have on the table so as to advance in this sense. On the other hand, we do not want to accept the perilous proposal that you are proposing, because you want to divide the Catalan society into linguistic communities, and, look, we do not want a divided and fragmented Catalan society, but we want a cohesive Catalan society and we want to do so from school, starting with school, so we defend the system of linguistic immersion, because it is what allows us to have the Catalan society in service and at the disposal of a process of social cohesion, including social integration of our entire society. And that's why we also defend linguistic immersion, because it seems to us that today is the best instrument we have on the table to make the Catalan language a language of cohesion, coexistence and inclusiveness. Therefore, you will continue to find us defending linguistic immersion every time you present a motion against immersion for the umpteenth time. For what he does at point 3 of his young lady, let me tell you that here the only people who have felt objectively assaulted and violated in his intimacy and deprivation are many masters, many masters, many educators and educators who have seen their loved ones, their names and their private data in the Ciutadans campaign. So, please, do the favor of pointing well when they aim, and don't accuse our school of not respecting the right to privacy and privacy, and don't accuse our school of setting anyone up. And lastly, and despite all that I have just said, as in this case, as in the past, there are two different motions for a separate vote, because we will vote in favour from the fifth point. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.134.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mrs Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.135.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the truth is that I had a different kind of intervention, but it's that I'm not trying to stop saying that you, the separatists, don't mean that other games that we defend a multilingual school leave our ideas and stop fighting for our ideals: it's that you want to leave behind and leave behind, unprepared, many thousands of Catalans who have their usual, maternal, Castilian language speaking. That's what they want; they want us to leave part of Catalonia's citizenship abandoned, unmanned, and we'll never do that. You have the right to vote that this is not ours, that it is certainly not ours, and to the proposed law of modification of the Catalan Education Law that we have presented since the People's Party, but they do not make us give up or leave thousands and thousands of Catalans without us, because we will never do so. That said, we would vote in favour of this young man, of all points, among other things, because yes, because we have always defended that education in Catalonia had to serve the two official languages in Catalonia, both the castle and the català, and we have also argued for the introduction of a foreign language. We were going to present in its moment a modification, last March, a modification of the Educational Law. I'm just making a little criticism of Ciutadans, and it's: man, we have four deputies, you have thirty-six; they won't change the law, they do the favor of filing a reform, as we have done, they're a little more ambitious, because they can do it, right? And of this change, also to respect the linguistic project of each school: 25 in castle, 25 in català, 25 in English and remaining at the disposal of the schools. Look, you won't do it here, but we will continue to claim it here, defend it here, and with a proposal at the national level announced by Mr. Married last week, proposing a law that guarantees that official languages are respected in all the territories of Spain, because Catalonia is still feeling and will be Spanish for many years.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.136.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Deputy Alamany will also intervene at this point. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.137.0	If'msent? Yeah. Those who have been teachers of public school know who are the main problems of the Catalan school: it's called segregation, it's called the impact of retailing and austerity on the day-to-day of the Catalan public school, it's called massing in classrooms, it's called overburdening the teacher, it's called opening the door of a crowded classroom and not knowing how to attend the students you have at the front; it's not the language, the main conflict of the Catalan public school. So, if Ciutadans is so interested and so concerned because the school is really a pillar of future and progress for the country, talking about these problems, talking about real Catalonia and not the imagination...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.138.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.139.0	... where they lay the chaos and the apocalypse.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.140.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To pronounce on the exams, has the word now the deputy Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.141.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that I have made the fifteen full, that I have made absolutely everything I have said right. I am still surprised – I said it on Tuesday in the Committee on Education and I say it again – that lexicon is so surprising to me that they always use: « battlefield, « confrontation, « conflict... Let's go over the lexicon a little bit before accusing others. Then, success model. Yes, model of success in the worst results of the whole of Spain and of the whole of Europe of immigrant population, seconds of the whole of Spain in segregation, at the tail of the teaching of English and first in barracks. We have no external indicator of success model in science, for example, in mathematics; nothing, not one, not one, but as you data give absolutely the same... Andalusia. Andalusia is linked to the recovery, because it is linked to the notes, whether they can be given that free offer or not. Then, with the data you've given us from the access tests, what does it prove? Do we have a good level of English in Catalonia? If this Parliament has had to vote on a moratorium because the principals and students were asking us to do that moratorium because they didn't have a B2 in English. That I don't say it, that the rectors and students of Catalonia say it. And, by the way, these tests that they say..., considering that there is no homologable evidence and that I in the previous legislature asked for homologable evidence for all of Spain and refused, will not be so sure of their success model when they do not want homologable evidence for all of Spain. Then, Mrs Niubó, the point of the election is paragraph 2 of Article 21 of the Law on Language Policy of Catalonia, which, by the way, I have not voted for, so, if you do not like it, then, I do not know, you are devoting it, because you voted for it, I do not. We can, normal; normal that they do not want to talk about this subject, with the paper they make, and then when the ballot box opens in Rubí, Nou Barris and all that, because of course they do not want to talk, normal, because they are unable to defend the Spanish speakers. They say we don't put forward proposals for education. Do we compare how many I have presented and how many you have presented? Because all the topics I have spoken about have been dealt with! [[Greetings.]] Of course, and they say: "Teachers, teachers... But what do you think? , that I was a teacher at a school in Lithuania or what? I was a teacher here, on the outskirts, where are all the problems of public school and all the cuts that have made Republican Left...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.142.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.143.0	...and Convergence. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.144.0	Time's up. Thank you. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados; separate votes? [[Pause.]] I'll explain what was asked of me and see if it matches what I wanted to ask for. I was asked for a block with points 1, 2, 3, for one band, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 10 for the other, and 9, in a third vote. I don't know if it matches that. Don't you? [[Pause.]] Say it, then.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.145.0	Yes; only the 1 and 2 en bloc, and the rest is already the same to me. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.146.0	Yeah, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.147.0	We would need 1 and 2 in one block and 3 and 4 in another.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.148.0	So, for what I'm told, if it looks good we could do 1 and 2 in one block, 3 per separate, 4 per separate, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 10 for one band and finally 9. Yeah? [[Pause. Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.149.0	To ask for the reading of item 2, before being voted on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.150.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.151.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.152.0	All right, we'll vote first the points..., I'll repeat the blocks: 1 and 2 together, 3 per separate, 4 per separate, one block with the points 5, 6, 7, 8 and 10, and finally the point number 9. Okay? [[Pause.]] We're voting points 1 and 2. Before, however, we read the second point, as requested. Secretary Pérez, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.153.0	« Motivated about trilingualism in education. Point 2: To guarantee the families the right recognized in Law 7/1983, of linguistic normalization, and Law 1/1998, of linguistic policy, to sort the official language of the first schooling of their children, enabling for this an objective, transparent and effective procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.154.0	We're voting points 1 and 2 of this young man. The vote begins. Points 1 and 2 were rejected by 38 votes in favour, 89 against and no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. Point 3 was rejected by 55 votes to 64, with 8 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number four. The vote begins. The fourth point was rejected by 55 votes to 65, with 7 abstentions. We now vote on points 5, 6, 7, 8 and 10. The vote begins. These points are approved unanimously, i.e. 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote number nine. The vote begins. Point 9 was approved by 127 votes to none, with no abstentions; that is, unanimously. We've voted all the points of this young man. So let's move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the International Day of Women Workers]] [[401-00011/12]] Before, however, we read the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia with the motto of the International Day of the Women Workers. Ask Secretary Pérez to read this statement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.155.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. « Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the International Day of Women Workers. The Parliament of Catalonia, with the motto of the International Day of Women Workers, which is celebrated on March 8, manifests its total involvement and its commitment in the struggle to combat any form of discrimination and injustice, and to achieve real equality between women and men. The fundamental rights of women must be guaranteed and not only legally recognized, but must be effectively exercised in all spheres of life: political, economic, social, cultural, educational, scientific and labour. So, in practice, today this isn't like that yet. Women do not enjoy the same opportunities that men and persist in society inequality and discrimination that make women, among other collectivities, the invisible face of the poor. For this reason, it is essential, urgent and absolutely necessary that everyone, citizens and institutions, is committed and involved in the objective of eradicating patriarchal inequalities and discrimination against women and children throughout the world, and in the objective of achieving effective equality by taking hold of them. The Catalonian Parliament is committed to promoting policies and cross-cutting actions aimed at combating the persistence and reproduction of inequalities and discrimination in order to eradicate them, eliminating all forms of violence against women and children, combating trafficking in human beings for sexual purposes, ensuring that all women can exercise fully their rights as citizens, ensuring equal educational, labour, economic and personal opportunities, and ensuring the full and effective social participation of women and universal access to sexual and reproductive health. The Catalonian Parliament supports workers who join the feminist general wave and the demands, acts, demonstrations and events inherent in the right of the wave which is convened with the motto of the International Day of Women Workers, as well as the recognition of all the women of previous generations who have struggled for equality between men and women, and also for feminist movements and contributions. Palau del Parlament, March 7, 2019. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.156.0	Tell me, sir, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.157.0	Yes; just to make it clear, because he has never repeated again, that he does not have to be a man to read this statement, taking into account the composition of the Bureau of this Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.158.0	All right. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Mrs. Segovia, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.159.0	Yes; in fact, it was for the same, to find that this statement reads a _table consisting of seven men and to urge the reform of the Regulation of the chamber so that this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.160.0	All right. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into its communicative strategy]] [[302-00071/12]] Very well, we follow the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into its communicative strategy presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose the young man, has the word the deputy Ignacio Martín. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.161.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today, this motion is brought here to the plenary, precisely to debate some aspects of the Government's communicative strategy, it is not just the question that it has to do with the public media in Catalonia, obviously, but it is an essential part of this movement, above all, because, in the past years, the public media in Catalonia have become, in a scandalous way, an apparatus of propaganda and separatist agitation. This, as the city of Catalonia, really is a reality that it costs to accept, but frankly, I believe that the public media in Catalonia are straddling a fundamental part of Catalonia's citizenship, its feeling, its opinion and, above all, its affection for the rest of the Spanish citizens. I don't have to go far enough to find examples of what I'm saying. Yesterday, for example, one of TV3's star collaborators, Mr. Jair Domínguez, once again uttered a few words absolutely unworthy of a media outlet, when he said, literally, in a tweet: "With venia, Your Honor, whore Spain. So, look, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that what is absolutely unacceptable is that a communicator, a TV3 collaborator comes up to say this to the public television and ask them, to the lords of the separatist bench, if it seemed normal to them, changing the word "Catalunya per" Spanish and changing the Television of Catalonia – the public television of Catalonia – for the public television of Spain, if it seemed normal to a collaborator to Spanish Television to say something similar about Catalonia, for example. I think..., I am convinced that at that point they would be absolutely united in the struggle because a collaborator of these characteristics did not appear again on public television from the national sphere, all of Spain. I think that, as a democratic society, we can't afford to have some communication media in which insult and hate speech are normal, and that's why we think that subjecties to masculinist, xenophobic or supremacist insults... continue to work on public television. The only thing we ask is that TV3 and Catalonia Radio and the producers who, normally, are doing as they please, as an excuse to keep these collaborators on public television, do not re-contract collaborators like Mr. Toni Albà, who said what he said about Mrs. Arrimadas or what he said about Mr. Iceta and other constitutional leaders. We also ask that Parliament denounce the campaign of defamation against Spain that the Government of the Generality is deploying, targeting large amounts of public money, both domestic and foreign, organizing conferences and mono-color debates, the only objective of which is to misrepresent Spain and to advertise the separatist cause. As I said, however, this young man does not have a single appearance, it is not only about the public media in Catalonia, but we also ask that the Parliament condemn the twenty-and-a-one points of Mr. Torra, who handed over to Mr. Sanchez at the meeting of Pedralbes. This document is not a document for the dialog, you can try to dress it as usual, but it is a document in which Spanish is presented as an anti-democratic reality, which maltracts Catalonia, which rules against Catalonia. He says that Catalonia is subject to the right of self-determination and, moreover, sets up the relations between Catalonia and the rest of Spain as a relationship between equals, a relationship between two sovereign states that is perfectly opposed, and that for them is a proposal for a dialogue. Mr. Torra presented these twenty-and-a-one ignominious points as if they were really a reality, when what they say these twenty-and-one points is only part of his prolific imagination, which is able to say that the Castilian speaking we are beasts in human form. So what I think is fundamental... and from this point of view, I don't want to stop at anything else, that is the fact that Mr. Sánchez, in the accounts of telling him what he should have said to any president of the Government of Spain, any president of the Government of Spain who defends equality between the Spanish citizens, freedom, defending our democracy, a democracy that is consolidated and recognized by the joint of the international community, a democracy that is based on, and, above all, on his defence of the rights and freedoms of the State, a state of law that is absolutely acceptable and that has been consolidated in the world... I believe, therefore, that the answer is worthy of a president of the Government of Spain who is not able to accept it. Because I remember one thing: insulting Spain, insulting judgments, insulting our institutions, insulting the Civil Guard is not just insulting abstract institutions that have no sense of practical application or tangibility, no, it is insulting the conjunction of the Spanish citizens who conform to this democracy. The Spanish State is the articulation of the Spanish nation, in administrative terms, the political community, it is the form of political community adopted by the Spanish nation. And when you insult the Spanish State and when you say and talk about defeating Spain, when the most undemocratic thing we have seen in contemporary Spain, after the death of the dictator, is their laws of disconnection, what they are doing is insulting the joint of the Spaniards. What I don't understand is that the President of the Government of Spain doesn't say, to Mr. Torra, that this document, what he has to do is break it into a thousand pieces, the twenty-and-a-one points of Mr. Torra, break them into a thousand pieces and tell him that this is unacceptable in any democracy in the world. These are the twenty-and-a-half points of Mr. Torra, not a dialect proposal. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.162.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. It has the word now, to defend the papers presented, the deputy Marta Ribas, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.163.0	Good afternoon. Deputy, look, we'll vote in favour of three points of this young man. I'll start with the suau and positu. We will vote in favour of ensuring neutrality, objectivity and political pluralism for public media, especially in electoral periods. This is an issue that sets, at last, our own Statute and that obviously has to be that way. We will vote in favour of censure that last week's plenary session of the Government simulated a minimum debate of totality of assumptions, of assumptions that the Government has not yet approved. We will also vote in favour of condemning xenophobic and masculinist insults or co-workers' homophobics from corporate media. We have already approved this medium, at a point where we have introduced a special note to our motion; obviously, we are in favour of condemning this type of insults and allowing me to make a specific point in the case of Toni Alba, which is not only because of the insults that you have made against the president of your parliamentary group, but also because it is already a recidivist, which never apologizes and, even so, is dedicated to accusing people of not knowing how to read their tweets, when we say it insults. We will refrain, in change, from the third point of this motion, to which we have presented a message to fix two elements that we consider to be formally incorrect; especially, there is one that bothers us: the constant error that some groups make of complaining to the Government of the Generality that they do things that are close to the Government Council of the Corporation. We wear many years fighting because it is de-governmentalizing the media of the corporation, because then, you continue to insist on assigning to the government part of the execution, of the governance of our public media that does not approach it. It's not enough with the secret they're doing, tying them to the presuppositional route, especially, but also with certain directives that make it a correct transmission of their intentions, not even more direct power, a type of direct power that we once managed to get the government not to respect TV3 and respect Catalonia Radio. Therefore, we can't approve this point, for much that we would have wanted and that it would have been much easier to approve it if you had accepted our message. In change – I finish my positive part here – we will vote against all the rest of those points that you, basically, use in your proposals, in this and in all the rest of those that you plant in this House only to make confrontation. In those proposals for division, constructive people, who usually present us, who make one stone we have just debated 'in another about education – you know –, I do not count on us. I refer, in this case, in this case, to those points that make about external action, foreign action policy and also, especially, the first point of this young man, again, a point loaded with that hostility against the workers and workers of the public media. A few months ago, the representatives of the workers of the communication media of the "body, the business committees, the professional councils of TV3 and Catalonia Radio" reminded us of the request they made to us by writing. They literally say to us: "Let us put the fire of social chasms in general and against the media and their workers in particular. The attack on informants is an attack on the exercise of a constitutional right, the information to the citizenry. Just as the chairman of my parliamentary group did in the previous motion on education, do they ask what they are, the main group of this chamber, exercise opposition and worry about those issues that are the main problems of..., the issues that they deal with in their motions, in this case, for example, respect the public communication media, why don't you, since the government doesn't do it, a proposal for a new March agreement? That it is a job to do this Parliament of Catalonia, respect our communication means. You're a big group, you have a big tech team at the back, you could be making a proposal in this sense. Why don't they ask the government for the program contract that they've scanned and linked ideologically to corporate media as well? Why don't they demand resources worth doing cooperation policies in external action? But not, as always, you, basically, use the themes – school, outside action, communication media – as instruments for your purpose: generate conflicts, generate rift and, if possible, divide.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.164.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In this round of presentations, the word now has the deputy Josep Riera, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.165.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselors, good afternoon to everyone. This young man, like the interrogation, seems to have gone through other things, but he ended up above all TV3, all very coherent with his intention of applying 155 to it. And while we know that, this time we made an effort to propose a couple of messages, we tried to make what you present as a persecution with names and surnames for some insults, which the councilwoman strongly condemned last week, we tried that this is converted into a text that promotes good forms and respects it, also here in Parliament, that is where we have skills, not on Twitter, where we don't have them. We get used to the way they're turning around when they see an open door, it's a long shot they've missed another opportunity to share a few points of a young lady, on a topic where we have so many differences. This theme is TV3. They say that in the first point. « TV3 and Catalunya Radio act as the transmission correctness of separatist propaganda encapsulated by the Government of the Generality. I will explain it again: TV3 and Catalunya Radio are not correct for transmission of anything, they are media that transmit a reality that you do not like. Confonen TV3 with reality. What they don't like right now is what they're seeing and feeling in the Supreme's court, that the defendants and their defenses disassembled with the truth of the rape report invented by the security forces, bought by the prosecution, embolized conveniently by the Llarena judge and, now, is judged by the court presiding over the magistrate Marchena. That's what they don't like, that everyone sees it and feels it for the Catalan public media and for the private, too, certainly. They want you to be like Spain, who now have other issues to deal with and ignore this. And you shoot at the big broc and, constantly, disrespect the professionals of the public media. His president, Albert Rivera, says: "I'm sick of every time they say something on TV3 to insult the constitutionalists–" every time they say something, textual. Inés Arrimadas, Dilluns: "In Catalonia, there are media that encourage hatred, referring to the Catalan public media. My big one. You yourself, who calls "sentimental pornography" a TV3_report on one of the political prisoners. But what's this? And then they talk about respect? I was at the Supreme yesterday, to follow the judgment. The day you have a part of the dignity that you have those who feel righteous, maybe, we'll start going well. [[Greetings.]] The reality that they do not like also tells us that TV3 each time has more audience; it has just broken the historical memory of the resulting leadership, with fifty-eight days, with a programming around, precisely, the court. But we see it, the better the TV3 data, the more sorolous its disqualification. We, in any case, in any case, congratulate the professionals again for the good work they are doing and that the audience recognizes. Beyond TV3, there are a few obsessions and demagogies in the young man's room, which, in time, I can't get into all, and a supposed campaign of contempt for the Spanish State by the Generality. No, I don't think it gives us that much importance; the real campaign of contempt is done only by the State. We could start with the police rape of October 1st, which saw the whole world, or now, the judge shamed the Supreme. The State is depressing only when it appoints a state secretary from Global Spain, Irene Lozano, who compares the reference to a violation. The Spanish State is dismayed only when Minister Borrell goes to Switzerland and says to them: "We are not a strange or rare case, it is you, the Swiss, that I am rare – it is rare, because they resolve the voting conflicts. The State is depressing only when the opposition leader in Catalonia makes a grotesque spectacle in Waterloo. This young man is, at last, the expression of what Citizens repeat every time more often: "We are tired of the independenceists, says Mr Girauta to justify that he has been tolerated; "We are tired of so much process, repeats to us the Mrs. Arrimadas in each ple; " – Jartibles, we say today also the deputy Alonso; guys and tired, say they are. So one thing is clear: we are not tired, because our cause is a just cause, because self-determination is a right and because we want independence from Catalonia, because working for Catalonia, for a better country, we are never tired or tired, and because, unlike you, we have patience, perseverance and perspective. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.166.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the turn– it was before and I was wrong, I apologize– of Deputy Gerard Gómez del Moral, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.167.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies, will go long, the campaign, I see; Mrs Albiach and Mrs Ribas have referred to it before, and I think so, right? , because today we are already seeing as the interrogations, ever since President Sánchez announced, say, that elections are called, so he will all pour on his campaign items. That you're legitimate, huh? I'm not asking, say, it's a more play than any parliamentary group can do, but in their case it's obvious, and today, then, we're back on TV3. And you're going to raise a young man again, in this case, against public media. We've already heard Mr. Martín, who does it, plus, always with an excellent tone, and that's what we haven't talked about more than once, and so it's a pleasure, say, debate and argue with you, right? , on any question, but especially on public media. But, of course, they always do it the same way, don't they? : « corset of separatist transmission, « nationalist propaganda, I don't know what, I don't know how many. Clearly, and you, with your own words, which you may believe, more... but of course, they are not – they are not. Because when we have effectively denounced manipulations to Spanish Radiotelevision you have never given us support – ever. Not only to us, that would be the most insignificant; it is that you have also turned your face to the Spanish Radiotelevision workers, on..., in fact, they sent to Europe a wide range of samples of violations that were being painted on Spanish Radiotelevision. And you're never there – you're never there, you're never there. And we'll always have them. Do you want us to condemn tweets, say, ideological, xenophobic, etc.? It does. In fact, in the morning we voted for it, we did. In fact, the corporation made a statement. In fact, the producer made a statement. We here, from the Faristol, we do. Now, we're presenting papers just to settle a position, but you want to campaign, you don't want to get to a point of consensus. And that's what, in a way, tastes hard to me. Or you speak of neutrality in the campaign; and we make a quest to reach an agreement. Why? Because, of course, in the last election campaign that we experienced – 21st of September – on the day of reflection, in a diary that is published in this country, the opposition leader, Mrs. Arrimadas, was fully covered. Reflection Day – Reflection Day! There is no more violation than this on a day of reflection. But you don't, you... look at another band, and they say, "No, that's normal, because we're driving, because we want to focus on the speech that the media are doing. And that brings me to another point of his proposal, which is twenty-one points. Clearly, you say, "What Mr. Sanchez should have done is tear them apart and you don't serve for the king. Home, it's just that you show it to your young lady. They're against dissent, they don't accept that someone can set up a few different points than you defend, they don't accept that there can be a dialogue with someone who sets up different political positions than you want. They do not want to see's, as all parliamentary groups have done, with the President of the Generality to address any problem, because you have for the dialog, they have for the negotiation, they have for political doing, they have to be useful for the citizenry of Catalonia. Gentlemen, you voted them more than a million people and they should be more responsible, I think, with the million people who voted them. Because they even brought to the courts that there was no initial investiture, because they wanted you to correct – that correct – the deadline to call nine elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, and they were unable, they won the elections, to make an investiture proposal – unable! – and they took him to court. You are the antithesis of politics – the antithesis of politics –, the antithesis of the dialect, the antithesis of reaching agreements, the antithesis of seeking points of consensus, the antithesis of defending workers and workers, the antithesis of defending public media, also today. And that's why, because you have a crack against dissent, against dissenting opinions, against media that don't like them... Even you criticise satire. So of course Poland's focus – and let me use a colloquial, say – of the politicians, of my party, of the government, of President Torra, and also of the opposition; of course it does. Yeah. And can you hear it offensively? Well, maybe so, but it's that humor serves that. And you're criminalizing humor, you're criminalizing journalists working freely, you're criminalizing editorial lines. I remind Mr. Girauta to say what the Spanish government was doing so as not to pursue the international media as they reported to October! And you come here to teach us how to do public media when you want to pursue international media! So, we say, directly, surrealist. We'll find each other, sure. If you want to go, we'll find each other, sure. If we submit papers and negotiate them, we'll find ourselves, sure. But to make them the electoral campaign, to play the game for you, so we won't find them, because we like to do it is politics. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.168.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the turn of positions, and in the first place is the deputy David Pérez, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.169.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, and in the first place, I would like to say that as much as the papers presented by the group of commons as the groups that support the Government, I think they improved the text, and for our part we voted on the text with these papers. It has not been possible to reach an agreement. In any case, these points will also be voted on. There are elements we can't vote for, huh? There are questions that we will not vote for them. Why do we actually think it's not entirely true, huh? , that everything that passes to the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans follows a disaster, there is nothing to do, follow the correct transmission of the governments and do not have an arrangement. No, no, We believe in the project, we believe in the model and we continue to think that it is necessary, let's say, to talk, to talk about these issues and to try to reach agreements, because it is what the workers of the corporation need in a nutshell. But, actually, it's not all perfect for the corporation, and there are things that can get better. This speech of "everything is perfect, there is no need to change..., no, there are things that need to be changed to the corporation. I know that with Mr. Gerard we talk about them practically every 15 days... there are things that need to be improved. And it's intolerable some of the demonstrations that make some of the collaborators. And that's not, let's just say, not wanting to know about satire or humor. This is that..., and what literally says the motion is that, either in a mood or in a satire, no one can be insulted or dehumanized or deprived. And with this we agree. And, indeed, it was also better to think of the commons, but in any case, we would also vote in favour of point 3, and also of the possible violation of the principles of neutrality and objectivity. We will also vote in full favour of point 8. And, to finish, the first point finds that TV3 and Catalunya Radio...; the second point condemns the xenophobic insults of the CCMA; the third point requires the CCMA and the corporation...; the fourth point denounces the campaign of communication media; the fifth shows the violation of the principles of neutrality and objectivity, and the sixth point speaks of the twenty-one points. Pam, huh? In a TV3 show and the media, we're talking about twenty-one points. They had to stick it like it was, they had to talk about it. All right. So let's talk about these points. And I'm telling you, we want to talk, we want to negotiate and we want to make a deal with everybody. And you? [[Pause.]] We want to do it from the ordinary, from the law, whatever debate is possible, including in this Parliament. Why do we have to break documents? They want to talk. And I know that you in the background have a dialogue too, and in your parliamentary group certainly a lot and many companies could share it too. And this country and the corporate media also need this dialog, this negotiation and this pact to come to terms with all of us. We need it. Otherwise, we won't get out of it. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] I'm done. Above all, I would like to agree between the rest of the parliamentary groups of this Parliament. I also agree with the Member who surely have points that we can share, and I would stay, if it seems good to the Member, with those points that we share that can be better and that cannot be better in the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. If you want, let's keep talking about the twenty-one points, but I think it doesn't touch here; I think that between you and me, this point doesn't touch. Let's talk about TV3, and surely on TV3 themes we can share themes. At this point, the twenty-i-one points here, personally, I don't think it's touching. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.170.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.171.0	Well, good afternoon. In the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, in case they hadn't seen him, Mr. Pérez just threw the stuff away in a pretty bold way. [[Give me the applause.]] Today we have again a young man who, once more, wants to discredit the media and his professionals; a young man who also... – and allow me the joke and the informality at these late hours – who could sum up with a « Viva España, live the king, live the order and the law, a little, a young man, thus, barrier-barred, in which there are different questions... And we give them what we always give them: let the professionals of public communication media work. I cease to use words, as is not filled with this motion, as 'censorship', 'prohibit,' abandon, 'demand,' the applications of. I let the professionals of public media work peacefully. Also, from the outset, very clearly, the UPC condemns all xenophobic insults, male and homophobic, all. Not just those – and we'll read the point of what you're going to see when you get out of here and make a lot of propaganda – against constitutionalist policies, such as Mrs. Inés Arrimadas or Mr. Iceta, which obviously also, but not just those. We condemn any violation of the LGBT collectivities, any violation of the rights of migrants and any violation of the rights of women. And, for example, we don't want buses running down the streets of Barcelona. Against all; not only against the constitutionalists, that you take very well these questions. On the other hand, it has already been said: they want the Government of the Generality to stop talking internationally about the shame that the Spanish State exposes on the table with this farce judgment that they are seeing. But if it's not that nobody comes out internationally to explain what's going on! That the Spanish State is portrayed as a sun! That today we have many people who are sure, more than two people who are sure at the banquet of the accused to promote a referendum, to vote! And, finally, you say so too, don't you? That we've complained a lot, they've complained a lot here about checks and all folded; and in this young man they do the same: defend what they don't want for you. That would have a lot to talk about. But you know what? We don't have for, we don't have for their threats, their censorship and their problems with the right to protest, which are deeply difficult and worrying; they have authoritarian tics when they speak in these types of motions. We don't have to. And we're not just doing what we're doing, which is defending the Catalans' fundamental rights to vote and live decently, but we're going to do it again despite their threats. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.172.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the turn of positions, the words of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.173.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Counselling, advising, parliamentarians and deputies, I believe that the motion has derived in a debate on public communication media and other questions that were not the main object of the question raised by the Ciutadans Group, which was related to the communicative strategy of the Government, because at the end I believe that the motion derives precisely from this inquiry because the original sin is in the communicative strategy of the Government: the Government has a certain communicative strategy and the public communication media are the arm of the Government to implement this communicative policy. And that's the big problem that at this time the public communication media of the Government of Catalonia, that they don't have that taranno that Mr. Pérez, I think with a certain naivety or perhaps complicity with the Government of Spain, presupposes to the public communication media. No; in recent years, the public communication media of the Generalitat de Catalunya have become exclusively and exclusively a means of dissemination of political instructions, which are transmitted to them by the Government of the Generalitat. And, therefore, from this point of view, we have absolutely no objection and, therefore, we will support, sincerely, the motion put to us by the Citizens' Group. That if you've got them or don't have them, that if they're supporters of the dialog... I think that's out of the question. Of course, all of us who engage in politics are supporters of the dialogue, but do you know what happens? That with those who pose with you the Fairy you can't talk – you can't talk. Mr. Pérez, I think you're naive. And I want to finish my position on this young man giving them all serious... because I think that in the last few days, man, there has been a certain controversy, and I think that enough nervousness – yesterday we felt Mr Pujol in an intervention very attached to this Parliament. Mirin – mirin –, I tell you very clearly: to me, like many other Catalans, we did not like people, but people or little, the statements we heard from Mr. Nieto, Mr. Millo, Mr. Pérez de los Cobos. But do you know why we didn't like it? Because we went back to what you and the government of the moment made us live many Catalans in September and October of 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.174.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the papers presented, the deputy of the group proposing Ignacio Martín has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.175.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, I'll already be allowed to start this short intervention precisely referring to the deputy who's been a little light on me. I was saying... I was saying it another way, Mrs. Sànchez, but I'm saying it like this: it wasn't easy. But it is true that I believe, Mr Pérez, that we in Catalonia have had a problem for many years, that it is that basically the Party of Socialists in Catalonia has accepted the premise that nationalism and separatism have imposed on the public debate and that this has resulted in the public debate being ultimately addicted. Because, obviously, the Party of Socialists of Catalonia is not a separatist party, but in the measure that accepts all and every one of the premises of separatism, what it ends up doing is generating a cult stock that ends up pretending that Catalonia is all separatist and that, if you don't accept everything that gives that twenty-one-point document, you're a catalan evil, or you're a colon, or all these things that we used to say to the members of the separatist bench. I think it is very important to bear in mind that this document, which Mr Riera said was a dialect document, the document of the twenty-and-a-half points of Torra, which speaks of Catalonia as an oppressed reality, of Spain as an oppressive state, of Catalonia as a subject to the right of self-determination, of saying that Spain does politics against Catalonia..., all there are the mantras of every day that thirty-five years ago we Catalans have to bear and that they are absolutely flawed, that they have no sense or contact with reality. What is obvious is that we, from Ciutadans..., and that is why Ciutadans arrived thirty years ago in Catalan politics, precisely to prevent the discourse of the separatist parties from ending up as definitive and that everyone in Catalonia donated by this type of barbarity, that it is not understood that the reality between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, the relationship of the Catalans with the rest of the Spanish, is a harmonic relationship, it is a relationship that has given place to infinite virtues, infinite possibilities and opportunities for Catalans. And what we can't do, I think, is accept that one thing that is an insult to the conjunct of the Spaniards – and that is why I said that President Sánchez should have cut it – an insult to the rest of the Spaniards, to the conjunct of the Spaniards, is understood as a dialog proposal, because it's not at all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.176.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Why ask me the word, Mr. Pérez? For allusions? [[Pause.]] What group? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But it seems to me that we have established that when the debate is, say, the speakers..., by allusions do not correspond the turn. Sometime he is a dona for contradictions, but for allusions, in principle, among the speakers who have participated in the debate... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thirty seconds, for contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.177.0	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In any case, to make it clear: we continue to maintain that we want to talk to everyone. And let's make it clear that if we ever make an offer to someone in the CUP, we won't be throwing away the junk.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.178.0	Thank you, Congressman. Have we called for a vote? [[Pause.]] Yeah. Separate votes? Yeah? [[Pause.]] What's the point? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Pérez, do you have a point? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Granados, did you vote separately? [[Pause.]] And, if not, Mrs. Ribas, too, I think... it must be for the same, right?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.179.0	Yes; for one band, the 6, and, for the other, the 4 and the 1, which can go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.180.0	The 4th and...? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.181.0	I 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.182.0	All right. Mrs. Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.183.0	To ask for a separate vote from all points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.184.0	All points. So that's it. All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.185.0	The dots, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.186.0	Just the points, not the subpoints, huh? [[Pause.]] Okay. So we'll vote separately each point; not the subpoints, but every point, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. Let's start the vote by point. Let's start by voting on point 1 of the vote. The vote begins. The first point was rejected by 37 votes to 71, with 17 abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. The second point was approved by 62 votes to 60, with 4 abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the third point. The vote begins. The third point was rejected by 54 votes to 65, with 7 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number four. The vote begins. The fourth point was rejected by 37 votes to 72, with 17 abstentions. And now we're going to vote number five. The vote begins. Point 5 was rejected by 61 votes to 64, with 1 abstention. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. Point 6 was rejected by 37 votes to 88, with 1 abstention. And now we vote on 7. The vote begins. In point 7 there was a tie: 60 votes in favour, 60 against and 5 abstentions. We shall therefore have to repeat the vote. Let's go back to voting for the seven point – the seven point. The vote begins. The seven-point was approved by 61 votes to 60, with 5 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the 8th. The vote begins... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Wait a minute. The vote begins. The eighth point was rejected by 54 votes to 72, with no abstentions. There's no more way to vote for this young man. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the feminization of the poor]] [[302-00072/12]] Let us therefore turn to the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the feminization of the poor, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. You have the word to expose it to the lady Natalia Sánchez. When he wants to. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.187.0	No, no; I hope, I'm in no hurry. [[Pause.]] Well, so, I'm starting now that we've already cleared the room. Today in Parliament it was also obvious that the week of March 8th; we talked about the rights of women, of freedom, of putting life at the center, of equality, of freedom. But this – and we also have not talked, and Maria Sirvent, the deputy companion, has put it on the table – this freedom and this equality that we claim can never be true from a capitalist, patriarchal and racist system, because it is inherent in the very organization of this system. We are talking about the contradiction between capital and life; that is, between the processes of capitalist accumulation and the support of life, both of the people as well as of the medium that surrounds us. This tension is structural and is therefore an irresolvable conflict, because, under the dominance of markets, life will always be under threat. I can only think of the state murders resulting from the denunciations, the companies that have to abort outside the public sector, the dismantling and outsourcing of the work of aging and dependence cure, or the feminicides. Therefore, it is urgent to equip women's rights and opportunities in the labour market, especially considering that we live in a society where all the rights of the citizen go through here. And don't panic, if this young man is approved we won't understand the patriarchal order, they can be calm; the patriarchate would remain well alive if all possible motions were approved, and more, they saw the omitted case that the Government of the Generality used to make of the motions approved here in Parliament. What we really want to do with this young man is to achieve some goals that we understand from the very least; some, including some palliative measures, we might say. What we want is to make some commitments to analyze and keep essential updates on the working conditions of workers in this country; the recognizable workers, the values and which this system invisibles and exploits in order to sustain itself, as the case of domestic workers. We also want to visualize the exploitations of the women on which the administrations... that all their parties there where they govern are accomplices; the inequalities that affect, I insist, the working women. To understand it, you know, we are betting on universalization and public management of the care services, greater transparency and democratization, work conditions worthy of the workers and a quality in the services. But now, with the outsourcing that they make of public services, with the privatization that they make of public services, we can't guarantee it. Also, as the compañeros of the campaign say, "We don't want to die in prison anymore, we want to break the silence around the prison and denounce an obsolete prison system that deeply affects people who go through these systems and generates great social damage. And we add, a great social damage that mainly affects women: sis_de_de_de_de women taken have been victims of male violence. Consteller Dolors Bassa reminded us of this in an opportunity that we had to go to visit the prison, the Puig de les Basses Prison Center in Figueres. She explained to us and denounced how – also the Speaker of Parliament, Carme Forcadell – the reality of women who are deprived of freedom is unequal with men. Unequal in relation to modules, lack of basic hygiene products for women. When we talk about a woman in prison, we talk about the face, now, more raw of the feminization of the poor. We must bear in mind that the majority of crimes committed by women are against public salvation or property, with the aim of covering basic needs that legally do not have the opportunity to satisfy. Finally, there are some urgent issues: expelling the right-wing fanatical entities from deciding on our bodies, expelling them from public salvation, from our ovaries and from the classrooms. To expel from the streets and from public advertising, from public space, messages that deny male genocide against women. We also claim memory, justice and reparation for those who have lived in their own for the darkest face of an institution that has long since enjoyed impunity or, rather, of an institution that has often not only condemned us, women, to the impossibility of deciding on our bodies or to the invisibility and ostracism of the people LGTBI, but also to intervene in a mass that is concerned with the social development of children. We are talking about the hierarchy of Catholic Church. Finally... and then on the next come back when we talk about the exams, a point about liberal feminism. They have managed to put it on the table but we have made it clear to them that the liberal feminism they defend is what makes it possible for professional women with direct responsibility to take steps forward, because it allows them to climb the poor migrant women to whom they subcontract for domestic and healing work. [[Greetings.]] His cause is elitist and individualistic. And I don't just look at Ciutadans. Its feminism is a vehicle of personal and equal promotion that is not used to free up a large number of people, but to push a few into the social hierarchy so that others can climb. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.188.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. If they don't know how hard they are, they don't get to keep talking here. Next, to defend the papers presented, he has the first word for the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units to Advance Congresswoman Beatriz Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.189.0	Good afternoon, deputies. First of all, I would like to thank the UPC group for having the initiative to introduce this motion by focusing on the feminization of poverty and, above all, by emphasizing some issues that should be on the political agenda, such as access to housing but also the situation of women who are deprived of their liberty. Access to housing is one of the most violated rights in Catalonia and in the case of women it is even more pressing. Because, as we have been repeating these days, women have fewer resources; they make up the bulk of the people who charge less than a thousand euros in Catalonia, they are seven_of_each_ten; on average their pensions are 691_euros compared to 1,190_euros of men. In addition, women triple the number of men receiving pensions below the EUR 500. Where do these women who have four hundred or five hundred euros a month live? The entities that attend them describe floors of forty_metres_square, dark, full of humidity, where there is no heating in winter. Many live in rooms or in sub-dwellings that do not meet the minimum conditions. The public housing park in Catalonia is totally inadequate, is located around 2_per_cent while in France it is 17_per_cent and in Austria 24_per_cent. The three motions put forward in this plenary contained points that referred to this issue, because lack of access to public housing is a serious problem for the most vulnerable women, but it is even more so in the case of victims of sexist violence. If a woman depends on her partner's income, it is difficult for her to escape. Thousands of women do not leave home because they have no way of doing so, they depend economically on their aggressor and as a society we are not able to offer them an alternative. In 2017 only a hundred_two women who needed to stay away from their attacker were able to access a public housing in Catalonia. We also agree with this motion that it is necessary to make progress in reforming the prison system in feminist logic and to ensure that there is no abuse. We must devote resources to reintegration, not only because all people need a second chance, but because studies reveal that it is the poorest, most vulnerable women who end up in prison. As Congresswoman Sànchez said, it is one of the rawest faces of the feminization of poverty. A recent study by the Social and Economic Observatory of Justice, of the Autonomous University of Barcelona, on female criminal execution, revealed that more than 78_per_cent of women prisoners in Catalonia are mothers, but that the system makes it very difficult for them to have contact with their children because prisons are not designed for them. As they also represent a very small part of the prison population, they are usually far from their family-rooting environment. The same study also highlighted that there was a direct relationship between having suffered violence and the criminal record of women deprived of their liberty. More than 80_percent of women prisoners had suffered violence prior to the commission of the criminal act for which they were convicted; 68_percent had been victims of sexual violence; 59_percent of domestic violence and 25_percent had been victims of abuse as minors. We are doing very little for these women who remain invisible. From my parliamentary group we will also support the creation of a specific Labour Inspectorate team to combat the wage gap but also all the abuses suffered by many women workers. We cannot allow caregivers or women who work without a contract and without social security contributions. We know that most of the domestic labour force is women, immigrants, black workers, and in some cases they receive salaries that do not exceed EUR 343_ with the aggravating factor that, since they do not have a contract, they are exposed to all kinds of abuse. Before the end of this speech, I would like to refer to an issue that has been going on throughout the debate on the other two motions on equality and that is that some women are allegedly accused of wanting to be able to decide who is a feminist and who is not. I agree that no woman can give or remove a feminism card. But what I think is clear is that those women who have been in this struggle for decades, not only since 8 March last, have the right and the legitimacy to criticize when a proposal emerges that defines itself as a feminist and that, to some of us, and in this case I do include myself, seems to us to be opportunistic and electoralist. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.190.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group and has the word MP Lluïsa Llop.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.191.0	Thank you, Vice President. Leave me... Good late deputies, deputies. Let me begin with a general comment respecting the parliamentary session that we will hold in a few moments with this subsequent motion on the feminization of the poor, and it is that on the day after we have spoken in single subsequent motions of gender equality, of the rights of women and of gender inequalities. Yesterday we also approached with a proposal to read the recognition of the right of escort and therapeutic children of victims of male violence. And, therefore, in these two days we will have addressed many of the problems that pathetic women in our day-to-day in a patriarchal society. A big debate that we would have to conjure up to do all the folds much more often and that we didn't just do on the day of the working woman's watch and the vague feminist. That he's already fine, but we're gonna have to do all the folds a lot more often. Women skate in our day-to-day a lot of discrimination for the mere fact of being women. So the half of the population doesn't have the same opportunities as the other half for the simple fact of being women. In our working life patim micromasclismes, patim assetment, patim discrimination wage, a gender wage of 23,4_per_cent. Encany men continue for similar jobs charging much more than women, approximately six thousand euros more. The Bretxa has more than – wage – is much higher in elementary occupations, because it penalizes, therefore, the women they hold in more basic occupations and, therefore, still penalizes them much more economically. For the most part-time work time, women are the ones most of whom are in part-time taxes with percentages of 22,6_per_cent, very much for the men of a 7_per_cent. That's not because the women want more part-time work, it's..., or because it's the work they do or because it's the work that allows us to take care of all the other responsibilities we take on. That's what we're supposed to do with a glass floor that makes it possible that despite the fact that university degrees are a 57_per_cent, that master degrees are a 55_per_cent women, that the doctoral theses read are a 53, it turns out that when we get to who post-doctoral researchers are there in a 60_per_cent men and that when we talk about university professors then there are a 78_per_cent men. For what he does to the direction– and we're talking about this glass floor–, women in management and direction occupations are only 32_percent of women, who can occupy these places. In the accounts of a glass floor we should talk about "a land that is hooked, as has been the case lately with doctrines, because women do not only access the most qualified positions of the labour market, but we find it very difficult to overcome the most precarious jobs that we can find and much less socially valued. Therefore, before a clear difficulty in settling the very working conditions of women, it is not strange that in our home the poor face the face of a woman; that in our house, as the young lady says, we are before the feminization of the poor, and not only the working conditions are worse than men's, but that this is chronic and acute when we speak of large people and pensions. Therefore, we can only share with the group proposing to apply for Popular Unity the objectives of this motion and the diagnosis and, of course, I understand that we share with the rest of the groups of the chamber an important preoccupation before this situation and need to address it from many quarters, as is done in this highly extensive motion. Habitat options, work options, awareness, education, not to agree or subsidize entities that deny gender discrimination and violence, etc. And that's why we'll vote for most of the vote in favour. Let me end with a quote that I think is very adheent in this case that you say: "From any right, from any rickshaw, from any country, let us continue the feminist struggle, they owe it to our seas. To all those women who before we got there we are, but also to all those who were unable to defend or enjoy their rights as people, to all those who were not able to ask for them, nor to assume that they could hold them. They owe it to all the women who have suffered by the sun to be women. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] "We want a just world and solidarity, the women know how to achieve it, so I know we won't stop. March 8th, we'll go back out on the street and win again and I'll win with you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.192.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.193.0	- Yeah, I'm done right now. "From now on, from now on, always with you. I'm looking forward to it. Carme Forcadell i Lluís, Alcalá Meco, 346 days busy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.194.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of MP Saloua Laouaji.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.195.0	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice President. MPs, MPs, counselors, counselors, workers, late maids. The position of my parliamentary group, Junts per Catalunya, in relation to the Movement following the question to the Government on the feminization of the poor is articulated in the following way. I begin by insisting on the fact that the poor and social exclusion are a social injustice that affects the dignity of people and violates human rights in an unacceptable way in a society that has sufficient resources and wealth for all. And no one can deny that at the length of history and of the world the poor have always affected women more and more. In fact, gender discrimination is structural in our mascotized and patriarchalized societies. When we talk about the feminization of the poor, we must remember that at the Fourth World Conference on the Dona, in Beijing, in 1995, this concept appeared very strongly, and more recently in the final observations on Spain of the Cedaw Committee, published in 2015, it states that austerity measures adopted for the State have negative effects on women and reminds the Government of Spain that in times of crisis, special efforts should be made to respect the rights of women, to sustain and expand social investment and protection, especially of the most vulnerable women, and to avoid regressive measures. Despite the indisputable adventures, the poor woman is still a first-class problem that requires action from all spheres and needs to be analysed from the growing material impoverishment of women, the worsening of their living conditions, the lack of equality of opportunity and the violation of their fundamental rights. For all this, the empowerment of the social and economic role of women is a critical factor in eliminating the poverty and wage gap, in freeing them from exploitation, from settlement, from exclusion, from discrimination, from precariousness, from vulnerability and, basically, from inequality. We have to take very seriously that we are not only feminizing the poor, but that we are returning to survival, that we are also feminizing. And we cannot forget difficult global aspects that pass into the world, such as the enslavement of women and children, trafficking, rapes, mercantilization or the extraction of organs to change food or other more basic needs. And of all that we don't have to forget about the migrating women, especially the migrating women who do healing work, who spend many years of their lives without being connected to society, and also the grouped ones, who can't work. With regard to the different points of the motion, let us not be able to vote for this motion unanimously, but from all angles we will vote for most of the points, because we basically share many positions. We, like Juntes for Catalonia and Government, also have these priorities in the fight against the feminization of the poor, because we share the objectives that coincide with the dignity of our country's citizenship. The deputy of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP put on the table these themes, housing in relation to the victims of male violence, in relation to the subject of work, labour inspection, the subject of wage choice, the valuation of domestic work and cures, the Law of Equality, the extension of the Law of Dependence, abuse and sexual settlement, the subject of structural violence, right to decide on the property, women in prison centres and prisoners... All these points, and much more, continue to feel motivating of militancy and demand. Many times we get solutions to myths, because still the prospect of genera does not permeate all our policies. Obviously, the government does a lot of things, but we also agree that they are still not enough, we can do more. We must reaffirm ourselves in our struggle against the feminization of the poor and against the masculinist and negationist attitudes, such as the case of the anti-feminist bus, which tempts against dignity, freedom, the right of women, and which in fact was banned and denounced before the prosecution for the Government of the Government of Catalonia. It's cost us a lot to lift our eyes, and we're not willing to stop feeling it. And that's what Vox and the people who deal with them need to know. You know, Congresswoman? : the Government of Catalonia governs better also against the feminization of the poor if we keep the tools adient. And I can't finish my intervention without expressing, as always, my solidarity with our political women in particular. We would have liked to keep them among us in the march 8 demonstrations and share the vague feminist, a vague minority for some political options...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.196.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.197.0	...the same ones who speak erroneously of genere ideology. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.198.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then it's the turn of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, and it's got the line on Deputy Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.199.0	Good afternoon. Two years ago he was defending from this same Faristol a motion of Citizens on female poverty, and many measures were adopted that other parliamentary groups have brought today in different motions. Since then, little has been done by the Government, in the paralysis in which it is plunged, and therefore we have to reiterate again and again the need to implement measures to be able to make progress in achieving equality between women and men, in the fight against the wage gap, in co-responsibility or in the fight against stereotypes. So, although some insist on the claim to censor the voice of a part of the feminist movement, denying them the right to think, say and defend the values of equality inherent in the liberal progressive movement, even if they try to expel a part of society from the struggle, they will not be able to silence the voice of an inclusive feminism, aware that the struggle is either global and is united or will not achieve its objectives. So you can get as heavy as you want with those sexist attitudes, telling another woman what you have to think, huh? , giving cards, distributing cards to good and bad feminists, who will never be able to silence those we have never consented to tell us what we have to do or say. And I am beginning to think that, trying to censor and exclude a part of society from this struggle, what they seek is not to end the servitudes with which the women of this century have to continue to carry, but that what is behind are electoral interests that have nothing to do with achieving equality. The slogans and protests are necessary, but to elected officials it is up to us to fight in the institutions to set an example and get ahead with measures that end inequalities. And in the fight against stereotypes we also have a lot to contribute from the institutions, as citizens do, rewarding the merit and talent of women, placing women at the head of spokespersons who have historically occupied men, as is the case of my partner Marina Bravo in the Commission of Infrastructures, Lorraine Roldán at the head of the spokesman of Justice, Mari Luz Guilarte at the head of the Commission of Enterprise and Maialen Fernández at the head of the Union of Accounts. The protest is necessary, as I said, but we have to move from the protest to the proposal and, of course, set an example by placing talented women in important positions, in positions with visibility, at the head of large companies, so that girls have female references and never doubt that they can reach the highest. And, having said that, we are going to vote in favour of a large part of the motion, although some measures are not really our model, because, as I said, we all have to make an effort to get ahead with measures aimed at eradicating inequality. But we cannot buy some of the things proposed by the CUP that whitewash the government's inaction and mismanagement. For example, we are not going to participate in the mantra that they defend on the suspension of the articles of the Law on Equality relating to the field of work, because if they were suspended it is because we already have a law of Spanish equality with those articles, and the Catalan law what he did was to copy them, and it is funny, because they were calcified, they are identical. And what the law says is that the autonomous communities have to do what they have to do is to draw up internal regulations and develop the necessary set of actions to give effect to the rights contained in the articles of Spanish law. And, if the CUP really wanted those rights to become effective, what it would have to do was demand that the Government develop these protocols and develop the set of actions to ensure that they are implemented. And neither can we buy them that coordination in the matter against macho violence is limited to that imperialist view of the Catalan Countries, because it makes me so much grace when from a part of independence we are called settlers to the Catalans proud of being but also of being part of a great nation such as Spain, when they intend to appropriate themselves to the Valencian Community, the Balearic Islands, Andorra or Perpignan. And it's that you're imperialists. [[Greetings.]] And I have some bad news for you: the Catalan Countries, like the Republic, don't exist, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] Because you are therefore settled in fantasy, and you live in the land of Never; it is the land of Never. And one of the needs of Catalan society is to return to the beginning of reality. Because if you proposed coordinating yourself with entities that do exist, it would make sense, but coordinating yourself with a fantasy doesn't have it. And we understand that in something as serious as the fight against gender violence coordination has to be with a real entity, as is the rest of Spain, and that is why we have tabled an amendment that they have unfortunately not accepted, because they prefer to remain installed in the country of Never. Finally, I would like to ask the honourable Member, Beatriz Silva, to give me back the feminist card, because, of course, she has started very well in her speech saying that she does not like to distribute meat from good and bad feminists, but that in the end she has ended up denying us the right to claim equality as we see fit. And he doesn't do the movement any favors with such macho attitudes, with which they pretend to tell other women what they have to do. We are in the 21st century and the speeches you have are more typical of the last century. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.200.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, for the turn of positions, has the word in the first place, for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, the deputy Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.201.0	Thank you, Vice President. Everybody's late, everyone's late. During this plenary session a lot has been said about feminism, and feminism is now more necessary than ever, and it is because of the macho violence that we suffer every day, but also because of the feminization of poverty. More and more studies confirm that poverty has the face of women, of women: it has the face of groups of women prisoners, caring workers, older and single, women in single-maritime families, young women, migrant women, women who care, women who do not fit in these liberal feminisms who defend some and who need courageous policies and that the gender perspective is incorporated into each legislative mechanism and regulation, because feminism is equal opportunities for all. 80_percent of domestic workers, the vast majority of migrant women, are at risk of poverty. 80_per_cent of the floor waitresses are treated daily. 85_per_cent does not even have written contracts. Care, which is essential for everyone's life, is not provided and outsourced under precarious conditions. We are talking about feminism and equality, and we have made no progress in the rights of female domestic workers on behalf of others in the last 50 years. On Tuesday, in El Periodico, Marie Faye, a migrant woman, explained how four years ago a woman she worked for called her to go clean up her house on March 8, while she went to the demonstration and left her working. That, that is the liberal feminism of Mrs. Arrimadas, who only cares about the glass ceiling and the female directors, without realizing that the majority of women are trapped in sticky soil. We believe it is important to seek consensus on feminism that fights for all women, and that is why we will support the motion. Because feminism is also public service, it is the right to housing, they are decent working conditions, it is the right to decide about the body itself and it is the fight against macho violence. Still, we believe that we should make certain observations on some points of the motion. Just as the articles suspended in the Constitution were requested to be recaptured, perhaps the part of the motion referring to the inspection of work and the rights of female domestic workers could have mentioned the need to urge the Government of Spain to ratify ILO Convention 189. Just as it is necessary to take into account the need to investigate and cut subsidies to associations that openly apply against women's right to decide, it is also necessary to ensure that those women who freely decide to have their children have social support for this and do not start from the current precariousness. It is fair to condemn all statements that justify or diminish the importance of sexual violence against minors, but after condemning we must propose policies, such as sexual and emotional education from early childhood, or clear protocols of care. In short, dialogue and consensus must be established in the fight for equal opportunities for all. Tomorrow we have another date on the street. We will repeat on 8 March last and continue to support and mobilize ourselves until we achieve effective equality based on rights for all, until we achieve a feminist policy that goes beyond appearances and patchy measures and includes courageous measures that put care, life and social justice at the centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.202.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, has the word MP Esperanza García, des de l'esco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.203.0	Thank you, President. Well, collect the women, keeping them their individuality, I think it's a mistake, and that's what we've seen in this Ple. That said, both Caritas and United Nations have reported that inequalities and the poor in women have a much more intense crush, among other things, because, despite the fact that there have been advances in terms of education, education in equality, training, that women already practically have access absolutely equal to the possibility of obtaining academic training, the reality is that in the field of work we have been stagnated. And this is precisely one of the reasons why women cannot be equal in exercising their other rights. Improving the contractual conditions of women also means that it is essential to achieve this effective equality. Indeed, if we look at the directives that are presented to large private companies, and even among the public sector, we find that there is an obvious lack of women in the leadership, right? The reality is that things can get better. We, from the People's Party, to the pact, to the general pact, have managed to change the contract law so that public bidders have also updated a program on gender equality and that those companies that have this perfect program within their organization are rewarded, and we believe that many things can be done. Now, neither do we with this young man, gentlemen of the UPC, who we are taking part in your journey. Or, all that you have to do with expropriating, disobeying, fighting against capitalism, fighting against England, all this, frankly, cannot be collected; the rest, yes, despite the fact that some do the question of the better and the claim of the claim and the work for effective equality between men and women a struggle not of men against women but of women against women, which, I repeat, is a mistake.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.204.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, to comment on the reports, the Member of Parliament, Nattalia Sánchez, has the word for the proposed parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.205.0	Well, very little time. First of all, to give concrete thanks to the deputies of Esquerra, the Lluïsa, and the PSC, the Beatriz, for the work we have done together to finish drawing up some ideas, some ideas that make reference, of a band, to the urgent and imperative need to know where we put public money in this model of privatization and outsourcing of, especially, those healing services. Therefore, we believe that it is essential to analyse in detail what are the working conditions of companies, such as Clece and Accent Social, which are under the orbit of the multinational presided over by Florentino Pérez, and other companies, such as Valoriza, which is controlled by another construction group. Today, we have Mr. Florentino Pérez attentive and giving public services essential for life. So, as far as we know who the conditions are, whether they complement the work arrangements or not. We see, thanks to the struggle of the workers and the fighting unions, that this is not so, and it is time for the government to give explanations. We have also been able to deal because of the need to know, counselor, whether the Government of the Generality is putting money to Pro Vida or not. Pro Vida says yes; in his memoirs he says that Pro Vida, which is an entity that denies the right to the property of women..., so yes, that money, not only from his department, but from the Barcelona Assembly and the Barcelona City Council. Well, by the way, if we can approve this transaction, we can see it. We have said, we defend capital, we fight, we forgive, patriarchal capitalism. [[Widow's remorse.]] Ouch! It is that he read "the feminism of the powerful and I have thought of patriarchal capitalism. And what I was saying: you defend the feminism of the powerful and we fight it, and that's why we're going to make a general stand tomorrow. And let's go back to the beginning. We know that the papers we approve here stand for everything, but that in this empty parliament of sovereignty we will not fight or overthrow patriarchal capitalism. That's why we're gonna keep doing it on the street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.206.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We've been calling for a vote... [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Separate votes, Mrs. Caula? [[Pause.]] Say'm. If you want me to tell you what I've been through and you agree with the proposal, huh? [[Pause.]] It was asked to vote separately and for blocks 9 and 12; point 13, band; then another block with points 1, 2, 16 and 18, and another block, finally, with points 4, 15 and 22. It'd be a lot of luck if you hit it, wouldn't it? [[Pause.]] Yeah. [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]] Mr. Pujol, yes, say'm. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The last block is 4, 15 and 22. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? Is that all right? Yeah? [[Pause.]] Mirin, there were 9 and 12 for one gang, 13 for the other... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] So, listen, we're voting separately from all points, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, yeah, tell me what blocks they want and see if they can match it, but... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No; because the PSC, the Socialist Group had asked us for another bloc. We vote all points separately and we'll end up before. Let's get to the vote, then; let's start with point number one. The vote begins. Point 1 was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 114 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes; a_second – a_second, a_second. Now. The vote begins. Point 2 was approved by 72 votes to 54, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. Point 3 was approved by 123 votes to two, with one abstention. Let's just go ahead and vote number four. The vote begins. Point 4 was approved by 107 votes to two, with 17 abstentions. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. The five-point was approved unanimously; 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. This point is approved unanimously, namely, 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote number seven. The vote begins. This point was also approved unanimously, namely, 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we vote now... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, by subpoints? [[Pause.]] So we're voting now on point 8.a– 8.a. The vote begins. Point 8a was approved by 64 votes to two, with 60 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 8.b. The vote begins. Point 8.b was approved by 124 votes to two, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote number nine. The vote begins. Point 9 was rejected by 12 votes to 98, with 16 abstentions. And now we're voting point 10. The vote begins. Point 10 was approved by 124 votes to two, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote point number 11. The vote begins. Point 11 was approved by 124 votes to two, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 12. The vote begins. Point number 12... [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak]] I now ask you, Mrs Sánchez, point 12 is rejected by 48 votes in favour, 52 against and 26 abstentions. Say, why ask me the word, Mrs. Sánchez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.207.0	I'm sorry, President, that before I neglected it; it was precisely to ask for the reading of this point number 12, please, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.208.0	Fem one thing. If it seems to you, we just voted all the points and did the reading at the end, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.209.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.210.0	All right. We're voting point number 13 now. The vote begins. Point 13 was approved by 115 votes to 6, with 5 abstentions. And now we're voting point number 14. The vote begins. Point 14 was adopted by 123 votes to 2, with 2 abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 15. The vote begins. Point 15 was approved by 72 votes to 54. Let's go now and vote point number 16. The vote begins. Point 16 was approved by 72 votes to 52, with 2 abstentions. And now we vote on 17. The vote begins. Point 17 was approved unanimously; 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we vote on the 18th. The vote begins. Point 18 was approved by 72 votes to 52, with 2 abstentions. We're voting on the 19th, the 19th. The vote begins. Point 19 was approved unanimously; 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 20. The vote begins. Point 20 was approved by 125 votes in favour, against, abstentions and one Member who did not vote. We're voting point number 21. The vote begins. Point 21 was approved unanimously, i.e. 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're finally voting point number 22. The vote begins. Point 22 was approved by 70 votes to two, with 53 abstentions. And now, before we finish, we'll read point number 12– eh, did you tell me, Mrs. Sánchez? [[Pause.]] All right. Ask the secretaries if you read the dot, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.211.0	"Point 12. Make a public statement that strongly condemns the role of the hierarchy of Catholic Church as the patriarchal institution that has violated and violated the fundamental rights against women and children.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-07-2602.212.0	All right, thank you, secretaries. There are no more points to deal with. The session's up. Thank you very much.
