ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.1.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. [[Question to the Government on the situation of emergence in Rojava by the attacks of the Turkish army]] [[300-00185/12]] Let us resume the session with the eighth item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the situation of emergence in Rojava for the attacks of the Turkish army. Presented for the Republican Parliamentary Group, to expose it has the word Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.2.0	Thank you, President; Counsellor; Members, Members. First, before I begin, I would like to add to the support of the Xilen society, in its sixth day, if I do not recall badly, exercising its fundamental right to protest, also to the protests that there is in the march, without precedent, to Lebanon, and that together with Hong Kong and Catalonia, place the ownership of its citizenship on the world map. In any of the cases and without entering into the motive and the background of each of these protests, if we are to talk about legitimate protests and protests – in these cases – massive. And I'm sure with common points, but with a radically different situation, Rojava is slowly and violently spent. Turkey's intolerable attacks, all over the world, are constant, to an unstated society that carries many decades of patenting and resisting. A society that aspires to have a radically different model to the Middle East regime and that carries years immersed in a democratic revolution, that has the recollection and support of the world left. The YPJ, the YPG, the face or one of the most visible cares of the conflict, are considered terrorists for many states; I would say that for most states; when in reality what they are, they are fighters who have managed – say they had, in the past, unfortunately – succeeded in defeating Daeix, ISIS, recently and that now, with Turkish interference, it is dangerous to revive, we are seeing these days. Com, after Turkish attacks, escapes directly from the prison inmates of Islamic State. The dictatorship of Erdogan, politically and also subsidized by the West through, for example, preventing the arrival of refugees, has as its objective or one of the objectives to eliminate any cultural traces and political manifestation of the Kurdish people. It is not new, but during the last few days and taking advantage of the instability of the post-Syrian war, it served as a pretext for trying its particular final solution; a harsh military offensive. In one week, it was possible to talk about the death of between 150 and 250 people, of 160,000 displaced people – the displaced people in the end are refugees who cannot leave the borders of their own state, so refugees in their own state – and 700 wounded. The UN, moreover, investigates the use of chemical weapons by Turkey. Despite the protests all over the world, yesterday, another time, on the street of Barcelona the conflict does not end, and despite the fact that some media speak to us – or some states talk to us – about the great pact, right? Turkey, with the United States a few days ago, which talks about ending – which, in principle, is put to rest – the height of the fire, which no longer has a bellicose conflict, a violent conflict; it is a pact that smells like a trap, because it evokes an ethnic cleanness and because it calls for the expulsion of the Kurds from its land. The Kurds have lost all protection and effective support, which they could have..., we could talk about, even more, in an interest in the past few years, the effective support of the great world powers. And now, in a few cases, the embargo on the sale of arms to Turkey has come to an end. In the case of the Spanish State, in the first half of 2018 alone, it was sold military material worth 162.5_million euros; a 10_per_cent approximately of the total, placing Turkey as a fourth customer and which has now, surely, decided to seize. Embark the new sales, adding to the decision of the countries with Alemanya, with France, with Finland and with Holland. And it is an incision, indeed, uncertain before this conflict, but altogether insufficient. And why do we say it's all insufficient? First, because it does not affect contracts that are already in effect, such as military transport aircraft, Airbus A400M or assault holes. In the band, we have a Spanish-Turkish consortium, which forms part of the Navantia public drassanes, and which manufactures the Amfibious LHD Anadolu assault hole in Istanbul. This vessel, which would be a replica of the Portanaus Joan Carles I, of the Spanish Armada, will become the flagship of the Turkish Navy, starting in 2020. It is also insufficient, because it is limited only to those weapons that can be used, or presumably used to prevent the Kurdish population in the north of Syria; but it turns out that the case that this conditioning could only be left on a paper or paper – in this case mullat – when the organization, as I have explained several times since this Faristol, the interministerial body that authorizes or denies arms exports, the JIMDDU, has some acts that are secret and 100_per_cent confidential. And so, we don't know how to assess the risk that a weapon might end up being used or not used, in this case, against the Kurdish people. They are confidential meetings, because they take possession of secrets of the state, through legislation that is paid back in 1968; that is, in Franco's time; a totally old legislation. Moreover, in the public statement, the Moncloa in line – that is to say – of the common position of the European Union, in which this embargo is carried out, is not pronounced on the battery of Patriot missiles, with a contingent of one hundred and fifty soldiers that the Spanish army has deployed, now, to the border between Turkey and Syria. So, somehow, despite this embargo, we could say that we are still complicit – by omission – and that we have more direct or indirect responsibilities, but in the end, responsibilities about this and so many other violent conflicts, extremely violent in the world. And these days, which is so much about rape in this country; debates like these can be used to decrypt or counter or even analyze other debates. And I say this because we have seen parliamentary groups in the past weeks, very concerned, very concerned about the violence in the streets of Barcelona, in other cities of Catalonia, we are talking about extremely violent groups, limited situations, unsustainable situations. And if it bothers all these groups so much about violence, we're talking about violence. If they are so concerned about violence – I insist, I want to think that it is – it is hard to hear how, in other votes similar to that which will surely be held in the subsequent motion of this inquiry, as there are no more firm positions, more demanding positions, around, at the time of criminalizing this sale of arms, which does cause death; this is indeed used in conflicts that are manifestly and extremely violent; real violence, military violence, bombs, deaths and horrors. And that's not the case, and we saw it before the end of the course came, when we voted here on the arms sale of Saudi Arabia, in the march of the arms campaign under control, of Intermon Oxfam, of Greenpeace, of Fundipau, of Amnesty International; which requires the Spanish State to halt exports to Saudi Arabia. There is no vote here; therefore, it seems that there are different types of violence, they have different types of feet; but why doesn't it matter so much? Perhaps it is that many times the debate itself is not violence but that we use violence, or that we use aldarulles, politically. Okay, no deal, no euro's worth more than one life. And counselor, we must always have an eye laid on the world, and especially in those peoples who suffer, showing solidarity, incorporating them when they fall, more, into the co-operation framework. And we don't have to get tired, we don't have to get tired of demanding this state to stop doing blood-stained negotiations; trading through arms sales and especially in those countries that are – now – in open conflict. Therefore, we would also like to know what the Government's position is to respect this conflict, which is not new, but these days seem to increase in intensity, despite these agreements announced at four winds, from the top to the fire. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make the answer, the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.4.0	So, in the first place, on the part of the Government – Members and Members; President – in the first place, therefore, express solidarity with the victims of violence all over the world. And violations of human rights and democratic rights. As, therefore, it is passing at these times to Kurdistan; as it is passing also to Xile; as it is passing to Lebanon; as it is passing to Hong Kong. Always different, always with different situations; we are not comparing or matching all these situations; but there is a point in common, that makes us have to express ourselves and that we have to say clearly, loud and clear. And all these violations are unacceptable. Because we share universal values. And values that are unforgivable. And with which they are irrefutable, don't think about giving up. And since the government of Catalonia, this is the first thing I wanted to comment on. On the other hand, therefore, the Turkish attacks on the Syrian Kurdistan are part of this logic of things, which is illogical and which is unacceptable. So, these massacres we condemn and above all, so we expressed our solidarity and closeness to a town that, historically, has been repressed, often invisible, huh? , one of the great oblivious, millenarian peoples, who already lived there when other peoples that are now, therefore, dominant, controlling and instrumentalizing, therefore, did not even exist. Look, Kurdistan, from what state it is – that is to say, the whole area of the Kurdish country and the use that has been made of it by empires and modern states, too, is not new. It goes a long way, precisely because of this, it's still harder; it's like, it's a town that's historically been subdued and repressed by the veins and not by the veins. We cannot but say that, on the part of the international community, here we have another example of hypocrisy that is not tolerable. It is to say, when Kurdish guerrillas are profited by the United States to fight ISIS, Islamic State or Daeix, then, therefore, they are presented to us in position. When they are no longer necessary because they are under control, in this sense, or on this side, then these guerrillas are again terrorists and we accept the thesis of those states that, therefore, consider them as terrorists and therefore, candidates to be annihilated. Turkey's invasion is not just, as it is said, not only intended to put a number of guerrillas at risk, who are certainly unfavorable and uncomfortable, but, more than that, at the same time, against a sincere people, against a minority who are also present in Turkey, huh? So, about dissit_millions of Kurds, in Turkey, and all around. And in this case, therefore, in the Rojava area, the Turkish invasion seeks to avoid what they fear most, which is the contagious effect. It is the fact that it is possible, between Kurds, to help and that it is possible to give support. And therefore it also goes against the self-government of the Iraqi Kurdistan area, which, as you know, since the last war, has a considerable self-government and which, moreover, departs from a self-determination referendum, the Iraqi Kurdistan, which took place in September 2017, much before the referendum of '1 October in Catalonia. Well, these attacks have led to a large-scale humanitarian crisis, and that's the most worrying of all. We remember a long time ago the execution of Kurdish leader Hevrin Khalaf, a thirty-five-year-old engineer, in the hands of pro-Turkish paramilitaries, who are not under control – far under control – or who are under too much control, we don't know. In any case, more than one hundred and fifty civilians have died in the last fifteen days, such as at least six hundred wounded, attacks on medical centers, residential areas, victims among infants, women, elderly, men..., victims among the civilian population in general. Untolerable. One hundred and eighty thousand displaced persons, according to United Nations, of whom eighty thousand are minors, almost half, and are expected to arrive, as a minimum, soon to 300,000 displaced persons. Six-cents_Fifty_thousand people who need urgent medical assistance. And before all this, so a certain international liability. United Nations has demanded respect for human rights and international law, it is true. The European Union has strongly condemned this. And here we are with the European Union, although – small note on the margin – sometimes it seems that being outside the European Union gives you more opportunities to be helped than not within the European Union. But go ahead, note to the margin. And we continue to believe in the European project, which is a project of rights, it is a project of democracy, it is a project of freedom and it is a project of peace. And, therefore, in this case, in the case of Kurdistan, totally in agreement, it would only be lacking – it would only be lacking – in the European position. Meanwhile, the Kingdom of Spain continues to make its own and make it see that it does not know what is going on in Kurdistan. And in this case, we have to say, we have to say because it is true, Turkey is the fourth recipient of Spanish weapons. The year 2017, 301,5_million euros in arms sales and licensing of arms sales licenses of 965,9_million euros; not necessarily all through the public sector. They are the figures of FundiPau, Oxfam, Amnesty International, therefore contrasts. The condemnation of the Turkish military invasion, which, in the Spanish case, has arrived, but it has arrived late and the suspension of the sale of weapons is also the last of all the countries that have made it, so the Spanish State has been the last. Therefore, here we ask for a little coherence and ask that the Spanish State put the batteries in a human drama as hard as Rojava, that of Kurdistan in Syria and at these times victim of an attack by the Turkish army. What do we do? Well, we at the Pla Director of Cooperation of 2019-2020 prioritize the attention to the Kurdish population in the especially vulnerable areas and collections of Rojava. Since the Agency of Cooperation, a program on land supporting the NGO Novact to prevent violent extremism, a project of parallel diplomacy and support to the pau process of the School of Culture of Pau of the Autonomous University, based on follow-up activities, advice and research of the pau. An ICESEN programme to reinforce the Pale Art House in Diyabarkir, which is basically a project based on the empowerment of the Kurdish refugee population through culture. So, fem, I recognize that we have to make more and the announcements that we will make more in this sense. Always, as much as you do, you do too little. Therefore, here we also commit ourselves to increasing all this aid and support for any initiative of the club. What do we need? And here too, therefore, the position of the Government of Catalonia, we need the international community to make a clear and strong position because this massacre and this massive violation of human rights is over. Therefore, the Government of Catalonia strongly condemns military offensives to the Rojava area and calls for respect for international law, as well as facilitating access to humanitarian aid; this offensive must end, this war, this confrontation must end. The violations of rights, the attacks on the civilian population must be over. Therefore, we ask for the Kurdistan of Syria or for any other people in the world the same as we ask for ourselves, for the parties to sit down and for dialogue, for a future in the dark and for a democratic future that respects human rights. Whatever we want for ourselves, we want for everyone and the whole world. This is the position of our government. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on investment in social policies]] [[300-00187/12]] The next question is about investment in social policies. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, to expose it has the word Mrs. Noemí of the Street MP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.6.0	Good morning, everyone. Before I begin, I want to send a affectionate hug to the brave young people of S'Ha Afinet! – today we have a representative here – who today have been able to overcome totalitarianism and have managed to enter the Faculty of Economics of the University of Barcelona to exercise their right to education. [[Greetings.]] Although it is also true that it is already sad that we have to celebrate that people exercise their rights normally in Catalonia. Many citizens do not explain how in recent years, in a period of economic revival, social indicators in Catalonia, far from improving, have worsened. According to the Idescat, one_of_each_five Catalans lives at risk of poverty, one_of_each_four, in the case of children under sixteen years of age. If we talk about caring for the elderly, we find that Catalonia has the highest unattended rate in the whole country, a 46_per_cent higher than the national average, according to data provided by the Ministry of Health. From Citizens there are many times that we have put this issue on the table, my parliamentary group has had to force three specific plenary sessions to focus on children, the social agenda or the problems of real Catalonia. And today I want to ask you, counselor, precisely for the investment that has not been made and for the money and time that has not gone to social policies. For Citizens, one of the reasons for the current worsening of social indicators is obviously the lack of resources, they invest very little in social policies, I guess you know, because this is not the first time I give you this data, that the percentage that represented in 2018 the spending on social services in Catalonia is far below the Spanish average, and I don't speak to it in absolute numbers, but in percentage. And the percentage of a budget allocated to social investment reveals the degree of priority it represents for that government. And so much to criticize Spain and it turns out that they make no effort to equalize social spending to the rest of the autonomous communities. For Citizens, another reason for worsening social indicators is their inaction, that is, not only do they invest little money in social policies, but they also do not develop autonomous legislation. Is that why they want independence, not to develop our own social laws? Because here there is no evil Spanish State that prevents them from fully deploying the law of rights of the LGBTI collective, no one prevents them from deploying the Law of Accessibility, no one prevents them from fully deploying the Law of Children, no one prevents them from updating the portfolio of social services and no one prevents them from complying with the Housing Act 2007. No one keeps them from doing it, but they don't. What can be more important than addressing the real problems of Catalans? What have you been doing all this time? What they have been doing has to do with the third cause of the worsening of social indicators in Catalonia. From Citizens we had suspicions, and it has finally been shown, that the previous Government of the Generalitat not only did not invest enough in social policies, it not only resigned from its social responsibilities, but they were also wasting and embezzling the money and the time that should have been devoted to alleviating the suffering of those most in need. And unfortunately our worst suspicions have been confirmed, that part of the money and resources allocated for child care, for care of dependency or to alleviate poverty have gone to the processist chiringuitos, that independenceist cartel that you have mounted and clearly also to strike democracy. And unfortunately they have ceased to be mere suspicions, because they have already become proven in a final court ruling. And, counselor, even if it is yourselves who promote and form part of those manifestations, which do not cease to be a smokescreen of the real issue, we are not forgotten. And, as you say, neither obliterates nor forgives. And many Catalans do not forget or can forgive the fact that the money has been stolen from social policies to pay for their separatist parties. It is now clear that there has been fraud to misuse public resources, to subtract public resources from the Generalitat's assets. Public resources that should have been used to meet the needs of Catalans. And in the case of the misappropriation in your department, of those most in need of help by the Administration. Counselor, do you condemn the diversion of social affairs funds? Because the logical reaction to the sentence, as the holder of the council, if you really protect the interests of all Catalans, would have been closed last week, that there was no ordinary full, to study the actions that your government is going to take against the embezzlers. Its duty as the current incumbent of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs is to ensure that Catalan money does not go down the drain. What have you done, or what are you doing, or what are you going to do to repair that damage? And to recover those resources that should never have been used for the purposes they were used. Will you take steps to recover the funds your friends have stolen from social policies? Will you tell the Catalans how much money and how long Mrs Bassa's crimes have cost us? Are they going to appear and claim that money before justice, or are they going to act as if nothing happened here? Do you condemn the misappropriation of time that should have been spent on social policies? Because another thing his mentor did was be a spokesperson and promoter of the October 3, 2017 employer closure. They have not only embezzled public resources, but also time, because instead of running the councilhouse, Mrs Bassa devoted her time to imposing a government closure. [[Greetings.]] Not only did he close his civic centers, but he also spoke as a spokesman for that crowded country where schools, doctors and businesses were shut down because they were forced to do so. And your mentor, Mrs. Bassa, was the guerrilla of that independenceist cartel that you have assembled and designed and spread about the treacherous country that prevented many, many citizens from going to work, taking their children to school or to the doctor. And here the real revolutionaries are the people who passed them canuts to get to work, if they got it. [[Greetings.]] Tell me, Counselor, how do you feel about the previous government dedicating itself to calling the directors of residences to ask them to enter their taxes into the Catalan farm. Because they were not called to tell them that they were going to give them more resources to improve the quality of care given to older people. When the government called the residences it was to ask them to defraud the Treasury and thus use them as an alibi. What, they didn't want to be alone in danger? Did you want citizenship to stain your hands with you, too? Well, fortunately, no one listened to them because Catalans are much more honorable than those who have been ruling them all these years. [[Greetings.]] And, look, stealing is stealing, here and in Madagascar, either to bulk up some current accounts in Andorra, either to fund an election campaign, either to water customer networks, either to buy wills or to pay an urn in an illegal referendum. They're taking our money anyway. And all that money that Mrs Bassa misappropriated was not spent on what was to be spent, which was in social policies. And so, there were people, people with names and surnames, people of flesh and bone who stopped receiving the services they had to receive because Mrs. Bassa spent it on something else. And that's a robbery and that's why I wanted to tell you, Mr. Chakir, what you intend to do to restore or recover the money embezzled by your friends in the process. And not only that, we also ask that since Mr Torra threatened last week with the holding of another illegal referendum, that he commits himself here and now that he will not act as his predecessor and that he will not invest the time and money of social policies to commit another crime of fraud. And now that we have the first firm condemnation of corruption in which your party is involved, I want to ask you again: what is your commitment in the fight against bad practices and corruption in the management of resources in your department? Because a few months ago I asked him this same question in front of the possible corruptions of Esquerra on behalf of the DGAIA, a case that is right now in the courts, and I asked him what he was doing to prevent bad practices and corruption in his department, and he could not answer me a single measure. And with the resume that you have, that you have withdrawn from the charge of embezzlement on 9-N account, that you have avoided accusing the 3 percent mafia in the Palau case, is that this is nothing new, it is that you are recidivists in protecting your own. And here in the background the only thing that's going on with the corrupt Convergence is who's taking the keys to the box, in this case, the social fund box. What they are arguing about is who distributes the money among their friends, no longer who puts their hand in the box because it is clear that they have all put it, but who keeps the keys to the box, who decides when the box opens and when the box closes. And the current war... [[Greetings.]] The current war between Esquerra and Convergence is a war for the keys to the box. That's right, war has a cease-fire, which is when you cover up corruption before the judges. Shame on you, counselor! What a shame! He's been here almost two weeks and they haven't done anything. Nobody's worried about recovering money from Catalans. Counselor, commit yourself here and now that you are going to claim that money, the money that your predecessor, Mrs Bassa, has stolen from social policies to devote it to a coup against democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.7.0	To answer the word has the counselor, the Lord El Homrani. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.8.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, Mirin, the title of the inquiry is 'investment in social policies, it is an inquiry which is ugly to the Vice President and Councillor of Economy, which I replace because it could not be here today. We had thought of budgetary management, we had thought of the social challenges of the country, we had thought of the assumptions of 2020, we would also have placed the incompliments that there are in budgetary matters on the part of the State, the model that we are developing, the priorities that we are placing in the whole field of social policies; we could talk about the part that I am close to managing and coordinating, which is the part of the Department of Treball, Social Affairs and Families; we could also talk about the Department of Education; we could also talk about the Department of Health; we could also talk about the areas that are specifically related to social policies, such as the field of culture, such as the area of housing and mobility, which the Department carries. But in the end she has devoted 60 percent of her time to slandering, to basically slandering a person, the Low Counselor, the Pain, to slandering in all its senses, even in an aspect that is very curious, that I think yesterday they explained to them, that it is that we are before a feeling that it is very fun – to say it in a way – because it is condemned by seditiousness without violence, it is condemned by misrepresentation without expense, that it is a new dimension of misrepresentation: misrepresentation without proven expense. But it doesn't matter. Like here we are so we can make a video, so we can tweet, so we can stay to the liking, not to build anything, so that's what's done. And the first answer: misappropriation without expense is not misappropriation. And since the same court doesn't show any type of expense, there's nothing to say about respect. And from here, the legitimacy of Constellera Bassa, the legitimacy of the entire government of the previous term, knows what it is based on? It is based on the votes of the citizenry. And I know they don't like it – I know they don't like it – but the memory that is based on the votes of the citizenry, a vote of a citizenry that also allows the current government to have a support of 43_percent of the two political forces that they understand, a support that makes it able to govern; a support that is much higher than other governments. From here, also situate three or four aspects which, look..., a yes which has placed it, and say" as at least is fine: percentage destined for social policies. If we make comparisons, as at least we don't cheat, because you are making comparisons as a percentage of a assumption that you have two aspects that other territories don't manage, which are said to be Squad Mosos and said to be imprisoned. If we do a basic math exercise, you will know that if there is a percentage that is intended for one environment that in the others is not intended, for maths even the other percentages are different. I think the answer is clear. I've known very hard – there's all his right, I'd just miss it – that you dedicated much of the inquiry to attacking names, and to attacking a name of a person who is now patenting a situation that is absolutely undesirable, that is absolutely revenge, that is absolutely revenge, like that of Constellera Bassa. He has also dedicated himself to throwing rubble at everyone, without any type of criteria, with absolute accusations: "Everyone has put their hand in the box. Comment on him 'hial his deputy, who was dedicated to bringing people with the BlaBlaCar to Andalusia, taking advantage of the subsidy they give him for transport. Comment there, say hi to your deputy, because they take a little time, but say hi to your deputy. From here on out, I think that out of respect for the citizen and the citizen... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's bullshit..., shows the level of ethics you have. In respect of citizenship, I think what I'm going to do is explain what priorities we have in the area of social policy reversal and how we're working on it, because I think it's the one that's close and I think it's the least respect we should have for the citizen and the citizens. Mirin, we are managing a complex context, with presuppositional prorogation – the presuppositional prorogation always gives difficulties – with another element: there is another presuppositional prorogation in the sphere of the State, a political inter-initiation of the Spanish Government... This meant that the current Government has not made any kind of change, it has shown a complete inopportunity and inaction around its dues. And what has been done is to maintain the policies of deficit targets, of not updating beasts, of not correcting the recovery of VAT – already done by the People's Party with its support, I remember it –, making an incompliment of its obligations financed with the territories, after discovering that certain reports of the State Advocate did not exist... Now, when they already have calls for elections, they make a first step to disconnect the payment for the updating of beasts. It has been shown that the resources for the citizen and the citizens, the Government of the State has used them to press, to make political pressure – I think it is not the best way – and it has also forgotten on the part of the VAT settlement, it is not said... And it has ended up generating that the same General Intervention of the Administration of the State, in the year 2017, situates Catalonia as the third territory with major contribution per capita and the desire in financing. I think it clearly shows what the situation is. But with this situation we are..., and we have recovered the current expenditure of 2010, being in presuppositional prorogation. I will give you a very concrete example: we will finish this year with the year that the most resources have been allocated from all the legislatures to depend on it. And that's not to say that we have a challenge, but the year will end when more resources have been allocated to dependency – as well as proportionally fewer resources have been allocated to it by the State, which should be allocated 50_per_cent – with a recovery of 2010 spending levels at 2010 level, basically in the area of social policies. And when I talk about the sphere of social policies I talk about salvation, I talk about education, I talk about social services... And another aspect in which the concentration of the efforts and the increase of the expenditure that we will have with the pro-presuppositional pro-front: we will end up having a higher inversion than the previous year, and the previous one we have had a higher inversion than 2017, being in pro-presuppositional pro-front, too, for one of the elements that was one of the pending assignments, that is the recovery and reversal of the labor measures that the workers and the public workers suffered: the return of the pay of 2012, the return of the working day to the interns, the return of the return of the pay of 2013, the increase of the effects, the wage increments agreed to the State... I think that it is the one that is close. But also, to ensure this sustainability we need other aspects: the maintenance of the medium-term period of payment to suppliers, the release to the market in 2020 in order to finance investments that facilitate sustainable development, and also, why not say so? , avoid State intervention measures. The reminders that we had received a letter from the President and Councillor of the Economy and the Health Council, in which they were asked from the Ministry of Health to reduce expenditure in health, that ministry which later ended up making electoral news of expenses that did not end up executing them, that they would end up asking them to execute the territories. I think if we do the same thing with the joints, we'll do an absolutely irresponsible exercise, which is to explain: "There's going to be this increase in the wallet, but it's going to pay you. I don't think that's the way to put it. From here, we will continue to work on this aspect. And when I was talking about which judicial measures we're going to take, we're going to take judicial measures. When the beasts hadn't been paid, we brought them in legally, because 800 and millions of euros were taxed. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] They're not from this government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.9.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.10.0	...are citizens and citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.11.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the Member's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.12.0	Counselor, look, we already know that it's easier to read if the ANC's one hundred and forty-character tweet than to read if the hundreds of pages of the sentence. But please don't try to take the Catalans' hair, do you? , talking about unspent embezzlement. But please, it's just... Look, you think Catalans suck their fingers. What you guys did was load everything on other bills or... because, well, the cartel members, that independence cartel, had already forgiven you the bills. Tell me which autonomous in Catalonia can be allowed to forgive a debt of eighty_ thousand_euros. Tell me about it. [[Greetings.]] It's just that in Catalonia to whom he bends himself, to whom he is docile for independence, things go quite well. [[The speaker shows an image.]] Look: « Then I charge 8_million_euro to the government. Look, do you know what's wrong with them? That you are advanced students of the 3 percent mafia, because you use the same practices that Pujol used. It's just that this has the Pujol school stamp. Look, I've already commented to you, you mentioned a citizen deputy who has by the way resigned, resigned because citizens want to have their hands clean so that they can tell you that a counselor's normal reaction to an embezzlement sentence would be to be preparing the accounting charge against Mrs Bassa to recover the money. And these days back we already know he hasn't been doing it, huh? , because what he has devoted to is to participate in acts of homage to the one who has put his hand in the box of social affairs. [[The speaker shows an image.]] Here we have you in Torroella paying tribute to a convicted woman, convicted of embezzling the money of dependence or attention to dependence, huh? We're talking about... [[applause]] criminals, seditious and embezzlers with a firm conviction. That's low, that's low, that's low. And, look, you haven't done it these days, you haven't tried these days to get the money back. Will it do so in the future? And I'm very afraid you're not going to do it, because you would most likely already have your hands stained, because it seems that you were caught with the ice cream cart or, rather, with the ballot cart of the illegal referendum, which Mrs Bassa printed des of the Department of Treball. They worked hand in hand; that is, she printed them and you distributed them. Look, I know we're asking for an impossible, because they're already boasting that they'll do it again. But do you know what's going on? That if he doesn't act, he'll be an accomplice to that embezzlement fraud. And, look, I told you about the DGAIA. We have been waiting for that external audit of DGAIA's accounts for many months, and you in the report on compliance with the motion that was approved before the summer, on a proposal from Citizens, in which it was approved that that audit of DGAIA be carried out..., is that you have not even tendered the contract to be able to do that external audit. They just don't want the carpets to get up – they don't want the carpets to get up. Look, Congressman, to finish, you've talked about that... I've done what I've done is... Counselor – yes, I'm sorry – Counselor, you've talked about that I've come here to throw garbage. Do you know who throws garbage? – Do you know who throws garbage? His commands, his separatist commands, which defile our city. Stop soiling the city and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.13.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.14.0	... stop – stop – putting your hand in the box, especially in the social affairs box. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.15.0	Congresswoman... [[The applause continues.]] Member, the warning, because I have already warned other Members, of a concrete expression. You said: "His commands. He knows that he's not allowed, that he's slanderous. And, therefore, I warn you, and I demand that you do not use this type of expression any more. Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.16.0	Congresswoman, thank you, President. MP– advisors, deputies and deputies–, I will not change my whole, I will not change my whole, even though you have absolutely the will to attack the name of everyone, have the will to do harm, have the will to place the Consteller Bassa, to locate the former Government, to name them without any kind of shame from this Faristol, to say things that have remained proven to be not. And when I said that there's misconduct without expense and that it's a new concept, I think it's clear – just like there's a siege without violence, that it's a new concept – it's the concept that you understand that it's the Criminal Code for the enemy. And I won't change. And I won't change my vision or change everything, even though you're talking, not about Constellera Bassa, but you're also talking about a good friend. I'm not changing this whole thing. Nor will I change all respect for what social investment priorities are for us in the presuppositional sphere. And that's why I said to him: we'll end the year I feel the year that the most expense has taken place in dependence throughout the history of this country, with a presuppositional extension and a lot of challenges to accomplish. And I don't have a problem with situating it – and I don't have a problem with situating it, and I don't have a problem with situating it. From here, if you ever try to tweet, try to keep videos so you can stay calm and enjoy your electoral strategy, that's your problem, not mine. And I think it's close to saying it. And I think I'm close to saying it with this to -- I think I'm close to saying it with this to. And it would be less than the right to go to an act to Torroella de Montgrí; an act to Torroella de Montgrí where were 95_percent of the mayors and mayors of the Girona demarcation. Think – think – what does that mean. I think that's what you mean by respect for what you're defending. Because, just as I know a lot of healers at the time of talking about that we have a different society and that we have to respect the many ways of hearing our country from a society that is very different, in which I think that you should be much more curious is to understand that, whether you like it or not, there is a social majority that thinks in a way and that you can't help but think this way with an answer that is only repressed and with a strategy, of which you are actors and actors around this strategy, to place por. So, mirin, we'll continue to defend what we think. And that is not to say that we will continue to do the work we do, we will continue to respond to the needs of the citizens in the most efficient way, with very concrete values that are not their values. And I don't talk about the country anymore, but I'm talking about economic model, I'm talking about social model, because we don't share their values, we don't share..., we wouldn't be able to be ruling with a support of a fascist force and of an ultratradrete, we wouldn't be able to have a model – to have a model – absolutely precarious of the labor market. We do not share your political vision, legally and legitimately, and we will continue to do so. And what he does ask of him is..., what he does ask of him is that, beyond his thinking, at the time of accusing everyone, it is as if at least a more respectful point, for personal situations, because I think it costs nothing, it costs nothing but to have a different vision in the political sphere and to be respectful with people, and especially with people who are in prison, people who represent 2_million citizens and citizens, and it is to be respectful with these people. And I am responding to what you did in the inquiry, because you have done nothing more in the inquiry than make an inquiry..., taking advantage of a space to explain your political relationship. They have all the right; I have the right to answer what I consider. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. It was asked on behalf of the Presidency and Spokesperson of the Postponing Government, because it cannot be present today in the Plenary, Question No 11. And, with the view of the interpellation group, it will postpone this point from the order of the day to a proper one. [[Asking the Government about police actions]] [[300-00186/12]] Therefore, we move on to the order of the day and move directly to the new point, which is the question to the Government about the police's actions, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. The question is made by Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.18.0	Well, good morning, president, deputies, deputies; good morning, councillor Buch. Counselor Buch, are you satisfied or worried about last week's police activity? We're very concerned. And we are not the only ones, they have also recently shown their concern the Synod of Greuges, the president of this chamber, numerous deputies and deputies of different parliamentary groups and human rights organizations, such as Amnesty International. How would you define the images of the police actions that we have seen these past days? Overruns, fucking shots in the head, indiscriminate charges, rubber pilot eyes... Look at me, she just sees a word in the head to define it, which is police brutality. I want my intervention here today to be well understood: I do not doubt the professionalism or the good work done by the Squad Coast Joint in the tasks of citizen security; what I will question are the political guidelines and the fiscal and accountability deficits on some practical evils. Since you are a counselor, Mr. Buch, and not only during the past week, we have seen an unjustified increase in police violence on the part of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, concretely on the part of Brimo and ARRO's anti-avalot units. On numerous occasions during the past year the police have made a use of force clearly disproportionate, unnecessary or inadequate. The majority of cases have been in cases of misdemeanours, both judicial and extrajudicial. In some examples are the extrajudicial denunciation of the population of the past 15 genera, the denunciation of Manresa of the past 25 March, the intention of extrajudicial denunciation of the Gayarre block on the past 29 May, the intention of denunciation of Sants on the past 19 September or the episodes experienced in various denunciations of the city of Barcelona on the past 10 October. In all these cases we have seen excessive police operations, charges against people who tried to stop the denunciation peacefully, use anti-regulatory police sticks, actions where the agents did not carry the visible police identification number or very violent actions in cases with families with minors or around the presence of large people. On repeated occasions, from our parliamentary group, we have asked you to take steps to correct this situation and to issue clear instructions to the police on how to act in denunciations of vulnerable families. So, not only have no measures been taken to reverse this trend, but last week the police operation deployed in front of the protest actions for the judgment of the trial made it clear that the abuse of force by the Catalan police seems to be the DNA of its police model for which it does public order. Because after what we saw last week, counselor, there are decisions and priorities that are political: the charges against assertive protesters, the use of rubber balls when banned in Catalonia, the use of techniques that they had said would not use more, such as the carousel, the lack of efficiency to encapsulate the Faixist groups... All these are political decisions and priorities that could have been in another way, based on some other criteria. And you're not the most responsible. In this sense, I ask you, counselor, what were the objectives of the device? It does not seem that the object was to guarantee the right to peaceful demonstration or to attempt to descalate the conflict. Who were the red lines, if there were none? Is everything all right? Who was coordinating the device? Who was the most responsible of the Cecor? It was you, Counselor. Since the verdict of the trial was made public, six-hundred wounded people, four people with a loss of sight, drawings of wounded journalists... all this is damage to people, some of whom are very hard. This is the balance of last week's police device. What we've seen these past few days is not four police officers who skip the protocols, they're not facts that solve the responsibilities of some agents; we're in front of a poor systemic practice of the police in public matters, which, by action or omission – and I don't know what's harder – comes from their direction. The problem is model. If you defend, as you do, the performance of the police of these days, then it is obvious that his police model for Catalonia is in the antipodes of ours. But we're on our way. What are we asking about all that has happened these days? First, the strategy of the police operation. Do you think brutality is the most effective way to get rid of people? I believe that now the country that needs to grow is to derail the confrontation. And it seems to me that, more repression, more disproportion in police action, more escalation of the conflict. And that's not just me, there's plenty of literature on that. But it seems that you are more in David Piqué's theses, the commissioner who after the general wave of 2012 referred to the protesters as "rats who could be stored behind a university chair and who would go for them and who would pay for it. So, effectively, more than two-hundred people are being held, among them journalists, one hundred and four of whom have gone to court, twenty-eight are in pre-trial detention, two internees in CIES and one in expulsion proceedings. Certainly, we are now carrying a few days without any meanings, concretely from the diumenge. And I ask you: was there a change of police strategy on the day before or, as you say, do you really believe that the Aldaruls have only narrowed down because some brave groups of pacifists, of whom we value their pocket, so did they make a human barrier between protesters and police? Is that the only thing that explains the backsliding in the cells, or was there a change in police strategy as well? Second, use of rubber pilots. Four people have lost their sight, and that's irreversible. Most of the heavy wounds of these days have to do with the use of this anti-disturbing material – not just vision loss, mandibular, pulmonary or testicular lesions, among others. Is the price we have to pay for the collaboration between police units accepting the National Police to use rubber balls in Catalonia? Really, Counselor? Look, accepting this is an attack on the democratic will of this chamber and stifling the sovereignty of the assembly of the people of Catalonia. If you are the most responsible for the operation, as is it, if you are the coordinator, please put conditions on police cooperation with the National Police. And the condition is very simple: not the use of rubber drivers. The State and the law empower it to do so; so do it. Third, the anti-regulatory use of sticks. If we have Regulation, regulated, that the use of the police staff cannot be from up to down and that it must be under the waist, as it may be that we have drawings of open heads and that we have to face these many days and so many images of improper use of the fuck, often with a clear will to humiliate and punish and not to disperse? About this I asked him a while ago, in the case of a denunciation to the people-dry, where we also saw the same type of charges. Then you denied me the reality; today, however, I believe that the abuses have overtaken him, and I hope that he does not deny them, but that he recognizes them and takes steps to prevent them from being repeated. Four, assaults and arrests of journalists. Drawings of wounded journalists. How do you explain that, Counselor? How can you talk about the democratic police, when the press, perfectly identified, cannot do its job because it runs dangerously. Five, the carousel technique and the perilousness of other techniques used. You said that they would stop using this technique and we saw it again, a technique that is highly dangerous and, today, what we have to celebrate is that we are not dead, because, in Tarragona, it went from a hair. They have also used other techniques that do not discriminate, such as the use of tear gas and also the use of smoke guns, which we also question, for how they have been used and for the effects they are having. But it turns out that we can't control whether or not the use that has been made is appropriate to the protocol, because the protocols are not public, and that is also what we ask: in a democratic police, the protocols for the use of anti-disturbing material should be public. Yes – and with this I finish – permissiveness and connivance with fascist groups. How do you explain, Counselor, what campesino for the city of Barcelona, with baseball bats, faixista groups to consummate the brutal aggression that we all saw? How does it explain the connivance between some police officers and some of these individuals? It's not the first time we've seen this type of action, we've also seen it, and we've also said it in his parliament in the out-of-court relocation to the population-dry of last month's generation, where some of the agents of the Mosso were friendly with Desokupa's killing. Counselor, take action. Counselor, you can't go on like this. They're masses of evidence. This is not the model of democratic police we want for our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the Inner Counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.20.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Member, I am here to answer the question of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, which you have asked me, Member, about police activities. Finally, coming from your parliamentary group, I will not say that I am not surprised, because as much as you and I, all of you, know the gravity of the events that took place this past week and that we are still patenting. The violence with which they have punished this city and other cities, where there have been incidents – Girona, Lleida, Tarragona, Sabadell, Manresa – where they had never been used. We've all seen images before what I confess I've felt a deep sadness. I've done it on a number of occasions these days, but I want to do it now from here. I would like to publicly congratulate the work of all the professionals who, once again, have demonstrated to all the citizens that they are essential. And I am proud of the police of our country and of all the professionals who have worked to guarantee the rights and freedoms of the citizenry, and to restore the conditions so that the citizenry can return to enjoy with normality the public space, which, in the last few days, was the scene of numerous violent acts. Undoubtedly, and I have said this on numerous occasions, all the actions of the body that have not been carried out with the protocols established in the Squad Ways will be investigated, and so I expressed it yesterday in answering a question to the Government. According to the law that is being applied, liability will be required for the conduct that constitutes an offence of law, guaranteeing..., and with full respect for the rights of the persons involved. For this reason, I have asked myself to compare before this chamber, to give a complete explanation of the facts and the actions that have been completed by the department and by the Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadres. And we'll have time, Congressman. We'll have time to solve all the questions you asked me today, and I'm sure I don't have time to solve them right now. The rights, however, are exercised in a peaceful manner and, if there is violence against people or goods, it is understood that it is not the exercise of the right of speech. Violations of standards or damage to things are illegal for the police to suppress in the degree and measure that they are not part of an exercise, while applying the criteria of congruence, opportunity and proportionality. Throughout the device, as far as we know now, there have been 200 arrests– 202 so far– there have been 289 injured police, 269 damaged vehicles and protesters and journalists as well. I ask myself, is this the picture of a country we want to donate? Of the pitiful acts of which we have all witnessed, there have been numerous media from various continents. If that was someone's intention, he's completed his goals with writing. These are not the news we should know about our country, and no one is proud of the images of violence we have seen. The evolution of the device, since it began, has been the following – making it the most prominent fact and following a chronological order. On the 13th of October, different mobilizations and incidents took place in Sants, Sants Andreu, Celrà and Sitges – if the most relevant is the one produced at the Sants station, an unreported concentration that affected the normal functioning of rail transport. Police intervention consisted in seeking an interlocutor between the conglomerates to try to mediate, but the conglomerates formally denied mediation and made it clear that they would not follow police directions or voluntarily march from the station. With this situation, he chose to take from one to one people there concentrated. In front of the police action, a bunch of concentrates chose to leave for their own little and at the moment it was used force. October 14th was the day the sentence was published against Catalan political prisoners, our companies, my friends. Before that, there were various mobilizations and concentrations of the territory. In Barcelona, in the morning, different groups realized lifestyles. Later, these groups went to the Plaça de Catalunya, forming different columns that carved the road to the length of their route. Some fourteen thousand-seven thousand people will be concentrated at the Plaça de Catalunya. At midday, one at a time, the slogan that everyone went to the Prat airport begins to circulate, which makes the Plaza de Catalunya clear in a short time. And, now, let's just report the facts to Barcelona, so, then, make it to the facts of the airport. Already late, the band of the different sizes of lives that we had, run from the country, produces a concentration of 28,000 people approximately to the square of Sant Jaume and to the adjacent streets that ends without incidents. Despite this, there is also a group of demonstrators who are protesting for Via Laietana and who, when arriving at the CNP prefecture, start throwing tanks and making launches to the police line. Before that, the CNP deploys police lines and begins to disperse concentrates before the prefecture. For what it does at the Prat airport, the bulk of concentrates at the Plaça de Catalunya and other routes went to the airport, with a assertive attitude. The large number of people made it possible to see that all the routes of entry and exit from the airport were affected and that all airport users were blocked, without being able to access or leave the facilities. In front of these facts, at different times of the day, it was necessary to contain the demonstrators, at last, with punctual police charges to ensure the security of the demonstrators, and to prevent access to terminal 1, for the 3rd floor, for the subway, for the air bridge and for the paraking or to deter them from launching objects to the police line or to empty extinguishers. Finally, in no case was it used peber gas, as many have explained and many have falsified, during the police intervention. That day, there was also an arrest of Mataró for assaulting one ARRO agent and another, Lleida, in the pre-Lleida Government Delegation concentration. October 15th is again producing different mobilizations and concentrations within the territory. In Barcelona, in the late days, there is a concentration of some two thousand people around the delegation of the Government of Barcelona. Some concentrates start launching objects and pyrotechnics against the police line. Later, they also throw stones and fall the security tanks, which makes police equipment intervene, after warning by megaphony several times the concentrates, that they maintain a very violent attitude. Later, and before the mass launch of objects, the first confrontations between public teams and demonstrators are produced. It's at this point when they start cremating contents and barricading the main lives. In front of these facts, actions are carried out with, among others: the use of launchers in a selective and controlled manner, to disperse demonstrators and to stop the violent action of groups of hoods throwing stones, blisters, tanks, pyrotechnics and burning fires. Finally, the device is given to finish well in the morning and one time it was managed to dilute the protesters. For what he does to Sabadell, late in the day, he produces a concentration before the CNP commissioner of about four thousand people, roughly with a claimive attitude. From these, in a few hours, a small group of two-hundred people begin to raise objections against the police line and try to access the facsimile, trying to assault the police area, a motive for which to intervene. Finally, Tarragona and Girona also produce interventions, in the face of the launch of objects that were produced against the police line. On October 16th, the most outstanding event is a concentration of about two thousand people in front of his Interior Department. There, at the end of a pond, there began to produce throwing stones, moons, glass blisters and pyrotechnics to the police line. Besides, it was necessary to disperse the people to allow the pace of a big tonage truck that had been stuck. Later, they began cremating contents and forming barricades at different points in the city, with reduced groups of people with a very violent attitude lenging blunt objects and Molotov cocktails against the police line, as well as pyrotechnics against a police helicopter, which we all could see. In the face of this, dispersal maneuvers were carried out, and at the moment, however, the police launched some kind of gas. Other incidents occurred in Manresa, Lleida, Tarragona and Girona. The most outstanding is what they produced in Tarragona, where in a dispersal maneuver a van from the ARRO hit a container that hit a person who was at the back. The person evolves favorably and the Mossos have already made themselves available to the family. On the 17th of October, the most significant events are two demonstrations of signs contrary to the square of Artós, Barcelona, of some four hundred people of extreme right and another, at Jardinets de Gràcia, of the CDR, of five thousand people, of whom a small group tried to find themselves with the group of extreme right. During the whole late period, there were repeated confrontations between the two groups, which it was possible to avoid, putting in place the essential force, except for some fact. Once the device was finished, different groups were detected making barricades and cremating contents. I've got twelve seconds left, I'll finish the second part of my intervention. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply has the word, again, the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.22.0	Thank you, President. Well, counselor, I'd appreciate it if you could explain the facts to us, but what I'd like is a political answer and give me some answers to the questions I've asked, because there have been a few. First of all, I didn't just talk to you about last week's events; I told you about the abuse of force by the police in numerous cases of denunciation. In fact, we had already asked for his appearance and ended up asking for his resignation before last week's events took place as the police were acting in numerous cases of denunciation, and that concerns us. Do you plan on taking any measures or not? Do they give any instructions? I repeat, judicial and extrajudicial charges, but what we're asking is how the police are acting under their direction in these cases. Second of all, look, we have the feeling that, before the evidence of the facts, right? So, you, now, want to exonerate the responsibilities and shift the blame to the agents who have acted in an anti-regulatory way, right? Actually, President Torra, the other day, yesterday, he was asking for this, wasn't he? , what pure responsibilities. What we give him is, indeed, to clear the responsibilities of agents acting in an anti-regulatory way is necessary and, in fact, it is also necessary to put into value the work of agents who act correctly and professionally, but what we give him is that this is a political problem and that here there is a problem of political directives, of strategy used and of how the thing is acting politically under his direction. And, in this sense, some of the questions I asked him and he didn't answer me. Will they continue to allow the use of rubber drivers by the National Police? Yes or no? Is this the price we have to pay for police coordination between bodies? Will they continue to use the carousel technique? Yes or no? From the report you made, it seems that the violence came from the protesters, only, but we have seen police charges on absolutely peaceful and secure people. It seems to us that this is a way to reverse the confrontation and to reverse the escalation of the conflict. They're going to do this again, or they've changed the strategy, and now they won't be carrying it in cases of absolutely peaceful demonstrations, as we've seen on more than one occasion these days, on Via Laietana and elsewhere. You're telling us that you've asked for the appearance and that you're going to appear to give detailed explanations, aren't you? Of course, I'd also like you to clarify what you tell us if some of them have already started... if they've already opened some of the dispatchers, or when they think they do, because it looks like this is all slow. They're asking too, aren't they? , managed it that you have made of the crisis. The first charges, the airport charges, were extended late on the 14th, and you didn't appear publicly until late, two days later. Before you, we felt mayors and mayors of Barcelona, Girona, Tarragona, Lleida, Sabadell, explaining what had happened to their cities; we felt the Minister of the Interior, and you came out last, right? Well, the last one wasn't; the last one was the president of the Generalitat, who went out on a quarter of one in the morning. Why did they cheat so hard to get out? What happened on the 16th? It is true that after the 16th century you went out publicly, periodically, morning and late, explaining the facts, which we believe is how to do. And you told me that you've now asked to appear before the Internal Affairs Committee. Clearly, look, we..., we already asked him to appear to the Interior Commission a_me ago because you explained the clearly disproportionate intervention of the Mossos in a denunciation on the Olzinelles de Sants street. And, of course, it turns out that the groups that support the government, together for Cat and Republican Left, vetoed it. So don't tell me right now that you don't have a problem with accountability and explaining police actions when in this parliamentary chamber you veto, preventing the counselor from appearing to give explanations for disproportionate charges in cases of misappropriation. Certainly, they vetoed it from the hand of Ciutadans' and PP's forbearance. Clearly, now you say yes, that he will appear and that he has no problem giving explanations. Look, you don't have to because last week's events are so unbearable that it's already yours that they ask you to quit giving explanations, that you have no responsibilities, and that in fact they also ask you to resign from all the gangs. Well, not from all the bands, probably from the right-hand side, not; PP and Ciutadans don't think they've asked him to resign. But I have seen MPs and MPs from all the other political groups – well, the PSC, neither – ask them to resign. Therefore, counselor, I believe that the problem is not us, as you once told me, that we want to criminalize, but that the problem is of substance. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make the counter-replication, it's the counselor's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.24.0	Thank you. I keep going. We were on the 17th, with the events and convocations of the Place d'Artos and the Gardens. It is worth highlighting a very large influx of people with careless covers bearing iron bars, throwing objects and showing a lot of violence and hostility against the police. For many occasions, the launcher had to be used to dissuade precisely outraged protesters. Tanmateix, it should be noted that, once the device was finished for the two counter sign manifestations, an attack by a group of people with a phexist symbolism on a person with an anti-phexist symbolism occurred. In this sense, three of the people involved have already been detained. Finally, that day also produced, among others, a concentration of some seven thousand people in Manresa that ends without notable incidents. On October 18th there is a general wave in Catalonia, with various concentrations and mobilizations and traffic and mobility effects on the territory. Lately, in the first hour, they converge in Barcelona the columns of the march for freedom, all concentrating on the Diagonal with Passeig de Gràcia half a million people in a civic and peaceful way, demonstrating and showing their rebroadcast, with the guarantee and protection of the Mosso d'Esquadra. At the head of an estona, however, a group of about six thousand people is concentrated in the area Via Laietana - Urquinaona, still pressing the police line. They start hard with objects, stones, balls against the police line, as well as cremating contents and forming barricades. Before this action, a proactive arrangement is initiated to restore and guarantee citizen safety. During the device, the violent tried to dump vehicles, violating doors and punching fuel tanks, jeopardizing the safety of the agents, public workers in this country. In addition, the water tank is used to open the step. Finally, in the morning, the device is given by the end of the normalized period. On the other hand, on the same day there were interventions in Lleida and Tarragona for aldaruls with launches of objects to the police line, barricades and cream of contents. On October 19, an unreported concentration of six thousand people in the Urquinaona Square is highlighted, where four arrests are made for different incendiary artifacts, but there are no outstanding incidents, such as the appearance..., which you said I said changed the report thanks to the appearance of these people who are in between. I never said that and I didn't attribute it to myself, please. On October 20th there is an unreported concentration of about three thousand people at the Government Delegation in Barcelona, where there is a launch of squalls to the tanks and the concentration ends without any outstanding incidents. Finally, the 21st of October is produced a new concentration before the Department of Interior where the concentrates have launched paint globes to the police vehicles; later they are moved until the Delegation of the Government, without – of the Government – incidents to highlight. It is opportune to continue to exercise with responsibility the rights that we all have as citizens. Inadequate use of these rights affects not only the person who violates them, as long as the responsibilities are demanded of them, but also affects the jointness of society and coexistence. But you came here to ask about police actions, and I answer them. Police actions have ensured that citizens can demonstrate peacefully, guaranteed the free movement of people in enormously complicated circumstances, worked exemplaryly and avoided major incidents. And we'll answer it, we'll give our faces and we won't take responsibility for every case we're near. However, I am convinced that the value of our country's police will remain very high on the part of Catalans and Catalans. Do you know why? Because the citizenry knows that it can be trusted, because this thing is the same thing that day after day is working in the face of very difficult challenges for the security of a country and that in every case it has been managed; it's the same police thing that day after day is on the streets of all our towns and cities, which guarantees security and age to protect our lives and lives. There have been performances that will surely be improved, but one of the things that I've been dealing with ever since is the constant vocation of the better that this police thing has, of doing things right, of learning. And that's worth my citizenship, and I'm worth it personally. Because security challenges change over time and it is essential to adapt to the security challenges and demands of the citizenry. And that's what the Squad Way thing has done once more, and it will do it and demonstrate its excellence at the time of assessing who its actions are and what its public service vocation is for all Catalans and Catalans, all of them. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Decree of 14/2019, of 17 September, authorizing the creation of 750 places of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and 250 places of the Cos de Bombers of the Generalitat de Catalunya]] [[203-00022/12]] We continue with the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 14/2019, of 17 September, which authorizes the creation of 750 places of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and 250 places of the Cos de Bombers of the Generalitat de Catalunya. In accordance with Article 158.2 of the Rules, the Home Counsel will first intervene to explain the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. Have the word, therefore, the counselor; when he will.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.26.0	Thank you, President. I could've stayed here already, because they used to follow the themes. In any case, I'm not going to stretch my weight today or waste my time, I'm not convinced, even if it makes... [[Pause.]] I don't know... well, it's the same; I won't exhale it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.27.0	There is unlimited time, counselor, in this case.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.28.0	Ah, now I have unlimited time. So I won't exhale too much time, I'm sorry. Two months ago I compared in this room to explain the same one I could explain now; it's in the record. You know what my intervention is, you know perfectly well what we're doing and we're not doing. And, therefore, I came to present the decree of the Law, on 8/2018, of September 20, 18, which was to approve..., the Government approved some promotions of 750 places of squadron movement and 250 places of bombers after years without promotions. You know that since the first day we arrived, we've been trying to figure out the lack of squadron moves in a number of approximately two thousand and fewer than a thousand bombers. Therefore, we had to recover these two thousand places that had been lost over the years of movement and those thousand places that had been lost over the years of the Bombers. That's why... we found two promotions already started, when we entered this government, one of five hundred moves and one of one of fifty firefighters, which has now ended, has just ended, and, therefore, they're already working in the Interior Department and on the streets of this country. And that's why, with Decree 8/2018, we threw in front of a 750-mo and 250-bomber promotion, and with the decree that we're presenting today we're pulling in front of a second 750-mo and 250-bomber promotion. So, what would the summary be? Since we entered this government, we had a promotion of five hundred moves and one hundred_five firefighters, which has already ended, and with these seven_months of government, as we committed ourselves and I personally compromised myself, we have started two promotions which have given a sum of 1,500 square and five hundred firefighters, with the compromise that the year you see, the year 2020, will surely have to do more promotions, surely, in the case of Mossos and guaranteed in the case of Bombers. Why? So why are we now in the analysis of which is the situation of Mossos after these two thousand effects that have entered and will continue to enter their own years. Therefore, with these two-thousand-thousands of Mossos and these 650 bombers, we are clear that we are recovering the lack of effectiveness, but that we will have to analyze, depending on retirements, according to the data and statistics of the download – download because the public workers, therefore, also have large malalts and suffer common malalts – we will have to do the analysis to make the proposal of the following promotions. So, so far, in the seven months we're in government, or dissem_mess, we've been pushing these two promotions forward. If you validate this according to the vote that will continue with the interventions that we will all make, we will have taken two promotions that, in addition, are 1,500 moves and five hundred bombers, in the two bodies, the Squad and the Bomber Coss, that will go and guarantee the security and the emergence of this country. That's why I asked them, just as I did when I went in as a counselor... I asked them for confidence, I told them that we would complement our commitments; of the commitments, one of them was to ensure that the seedlings had the numbers they were supposed to have. We're doing it, we're doing it backwards. It is not just an effort of the Interior Department, it is an effort of all members of the Government, because we use a technique that is the repositioning rate, that the Government of the Spanish State allows us, and that we take places of all departments without these departments being affected. Therefore, it is all the departments that have given up some seats to the Department of Interior so that they can have these 1,500 more places than the moves and these five hundred more places than the bombers. Therefore, they ask for their trust and, therefore, they vote on this decree which the Government proposes to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then we move on to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to determine their position. In the first place, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.30.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Counsellor, MPs, MPs, today I want to begin by thanking the security forces and cosmos of the State – Mossos d'Esquadra, Guardia Civil and National Police – their dedication and their work before day to day when they bring to terms as we have seen the last week and their constant work and with a vocation of impolite services. Also wish, in the same way, a quick recovery to all the wounded. [[Greetings.]] We are approving the Decree of 14/2019 of 17 September, which authorizes the creation of 750 seats, as the Councillor has said, of Mossos d'Esquadra and 250 Bombers of the Generality. Power is that first stone after so many years of leaving the solutions relegated to the cove of oblivion. Listen to me, an increase will also lead us to work hard in those forecasting policies so that we don't find another shot in the bottom line that is already a collection that today we intend to increase. Many times you are complaining about the premise – "we don't have any money, "we don't have enough to give out... –; today I will show you that sometimes who suffers from the premise of the Generality is a government that doesn't prioritize in which to prioritize. Miri, I'll give you a few examples. We all remember that 2014, the 9-N; 2015, with the lobbying and the embassies with a new creation; the increase in the expenditure of the minister Mr Romeva, when we increased the expenditure for this lord, or the own estate, with the tax insubmission: which irresponsible. Listen'm, 2018: 20_millions add to TV3; subminims among the collectius, but 20_millions add to a television that acts on its own. Listen to me, the agents, questions, never again. Agents carry their work to term, a work... And better protecting than protecting... In many cases, as we see..., it surprised us all when we saw agents giving cover and protection to a profuge of justice like Mr Puigdemont, another image that accompanied us in 2018, or 2019, counselor, increasing a pretorian guard of the President of the Generality while we all remember that at that very moment they were producing different cities of Catalonia made..., and an example would be the barri del Raval. You absorb effects that could develop your work in the street, while subjecting security to our streets. And on top of that, we'll pay for your assistance to Mr. Trapero. What's the matter with all the folds? Miri, as they say in the castle, if you say "we want to curl..., the construction of the CNI strikes that we all want to be able to see. And I could go on, but, look, I mean, you guys, lately, you're a lot used to tricks, including those tricks. You know what I'm saying to you – and I'd like to ask you – how many times did you call Mr. Marlaska to secure public order in Catalonia this past week? It's a very concrete question that I'd like to know what you're thinking. Look, if anything has been shown is that Mossos d'Esquadra, National Police and Civil Guard carry out an exquisite job; and what has also been shown is that coordination before an insurrectional and violent revolt, encouraged under the irresponsibility of a president of the Generality, leaves much to be desired on the basis of this institution. It has been shown that police coordination is a fact, a reality and a success: unity, better; when we work hand-in-hand we meet the goals that we all claim. Does anyone think it's normal – that it's normal – that, before the political interferences of a government, the squadron moves have to pull the shield? Listen to me, a police is there to protect us. An agent, today, when he's out on the street, he's exposed himself to a lot of problems. Do you know who the three hardest problems are right now on the street? One, the commands of the CDRs of Mr. Torra; the second, the political interferences of a government that, today, does not know where to navigate, and the third, the lack of protection suffered by a government of the State, a president and a minister who does not 'lsesperate because they are coming, as they say, to the past bull, they are arriving here when the city of Catalonia had already suffered. Look, public resources – which I want to remind you that it is that recaptancy that citizens bring with their taxes – cannot go to be used in a criminal insurrection; the public appeal must go to improve the conditions of our public servants. An institution is worthy of respect, a respect that you have lost a long time ago to this institution. And I'd ask you, please, to respect and compliment this decree that we have approved today. Obviously, it will have our recovery: any increase to reach those good times will be on the side. But I'll ask you: I don't get the pilot at six months' notice, as did the President of the Generalitat when that professional and work contract was renewed before the process of this institution. We've got to be out of trouble, and renewing a processing contract isn't a waste, either, for Catalonia. A police basket never has to be politicized – ever. Increases in police, in bombers, also... what we have to look at is that we don't get any more complaints. What do you mean? They must also work in those policies that I gave him before forecasting. A police body like Mossos d'Esquadra must have the right equipment: it does, yes, to get to those routes that tell us and guarantee us security in Catalonia; material and equipment, too. In many cases we see that the materials and equipment are the least grateful when they arrive... and also as you buy them. A mobile park suited to the real need, counselor; a locker room that also gives them maximum security – this parliamentary group has already made proposals in this sense, and we do not see it coming. Listen to me, too, compromise before the failings of the council and the same department: when they arrive at commitments, you come out saying: "Everything is arranged, we have reached an agreement... Listen to me, and then we see in little war before the department our effects complaining about what you said was resolved. The working and safety conditions of our commissioners. Yesterday, Vic's police station: flooded. We're also working on what infrastructure we're offering our agents and firefighters. Continuing training: shooting practices, detention techniques, public order... we don't see it. It's a formation that's a waste that also delights our agents and our bombers, also in those towers that I'll call him later. A DAI, a department of internal affairs worthy, neutral, that never again leads to discretion when we do not prevail in many cases the presumption of innocence. That I acted in an arbitrary way, as we have seen done, is not a waste, and we believe that the Director General, in this sense, should also be thanking efforts, being able to start... This parliamentary group asked a question from who was part of the DAI: a single person licensed in right on all this team. The power to be made to look at it, the same way. In short, a new law of Catalonia, a new law of police of Catalonia, a new law of emergencies, as we have spoken in many cases to the department, counselor. And the firemen. Listen to me, never more – never more – parks closed for lack of personnel, never more parks with sub-minimal, obsolete material – I will not remind you of the bars we all want to see in the last fires this summer. Voluntary firefighters: they have the right equipment, they have the right material to give guarantees, and they don't let go of the band or forget our firefighters. Miri, the one who ran the meeting in 2006, which you named, the power that we made us look at: after thirteen years, priorities are changing and needs are others. Responsibility, in short: the opportunities for improvement and adequacy are also in the band of a department and a councillor. I believe that today we are before laying the first stone – not of those who break, but of those who build, counselor – to keep our public servants adequate; to keep it the amount that you guarantee to those who talk about it many times, which is security and also because they work and make priority a reality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.31.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Carles Castillo has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.32.0	Bones. Good historic day of the dictator's exit from his place of privileges, and of the apologia of fascism to everyone. Good day to everyone. [[Some applause.]] I can't help but start my intervention on this subject without a record of those professionals who are now involved in helping areas affected by the floods. It also transmits my escalph to the families who are going through it badly for some missing, or dead, or simply for the wreckage they've had. With respect to the law decree, I will begin by telling you that naturally we will vote in favour of it and give support today to this law decree 14/2019, which authorizes the creation of 750 places of the Squad Coast and 250 places of the Bomber Coast. We did this because we are sure that the growth of the staff is indispensable as many moves as firefighters: it is now just as it was a year ago, two years ago, three years ago, five years ago... Because if it is true that the Interior Council has made an effort, it is making an effort, in the last few years, it is not less certain that the situation has been allowed to rot, and that they have not, for too long, aspired to safety, not to emerge, neither to the media nor to the working conditions of workers: movers, firefighters, foresters, SEM, GEM personnel, and even of the people I serve to 112, the number of telephone emergency in Catalonia. The excuse for not betting so far for security? The assumptions. But we have no presuppositions because you, because this government, with its president in the front, is still installed – and is still installed – in a unilateral way of impossible transport, in a way, in short, of rebellion towards the law of institutional confrontation sustained and continued. Look, lords and lords of the government: the situation is desperate in security, as you can easily see. The same decree speaks of the existence of a structural deficit, and considers it to be a direct consequence of policies containing expenditure incurred by the Generality in previous budgetary exercises. There was a lack of confidence in Catalonia: with the excuse they wanted, but there was. And the result has been the collapsing situation in which people working in security are found, covering – as I always say – with their personal dedication and family time the shortcomings that this lack of political recovery has caused. The preamble of the decree focuses on the historical content of the expenditure in the field of security. Curious. That is to say, when priorities were to be chosen to see where the detail applied, it was decided to pull out the emergency and security services – yes, the governments before the present, of which you are heresy. The troops – you have to think – will endure everything, they'll be blown away as soon as they can. And they didn't really make a big mistake either, because we have every chance of finding ourselves with dedicated people who believe in their work and in the public service they provide, and when they've come to – and come to – they're at the bottom of the dog, as they can see today itself. Because they are also very aware of the importance of this public service and want to lend it on worthy terms so that they can truly give the quality that their efforts and the citizenship of Catalonia deserve. It has come to a very fucked up situation, with a real increase in risk in all those issues they have to deal with with emergencies. There is a general increase in the risk to the citizenry, there is an increase in the risk to the workers who lend the job in conditions of safety – to say the least rigorous. That's what the same Labour Inspectorate said. We currently have, in the Catalonia of the 21st century, movements and movements that work and serve the area of Pirineu, the Seu d'Urgell, the Bergedà, or in general in any area of cold, that are to be bought from its butxaca– from its butxaca– the coat of shelter to be able to endure in conditions sota zero. Neither demagogic nor alarmism, but we have to be responsible and we cannot hold back the situation in which we already find ourselves in terms of security and emergencies in Catalonia. We need to be very clear: it is patent – and you know it – that there are not enough civilian security patrols in the territory: all – all – parliamentary groups, including the one who speaks to them, we submit requests for representation of different municipalities and communities in Catalonia to complain more quickly. All groups: only minimally follow Interior commissions to see it. We do not stop, one or the other, from submitting requests for concrete municipalities when the problem is already widespread everywhere. It is so difficult the problem that in some of Catalonia's rights, companies and companies, are planning to prepare citizen patrols, in full 21st century to today's Catalonia: citizen patrols. And we cannot and cannot see it as normal: security is the most basic obligation of any public administration – the most basic. And, actually, we're talking about a law that has more moves and firefighters, but we shouldn't have gotten to this situation. And now it's time, you know perfectly well, to rethink the whole model of security and the whole model of emergencies in Catalonia, but let me go back to raising the doubt in this rostrum to respect, taking advantage of today's approval of an increase in the template for the Mossos and the Bombers. Can anyone really believe that this government – that this government, ladies and gentlemen – has the time, the gains and the authority to carry out a debate on the police model, the model of emergencies, reach a series of agreed conclusions, a consensus, put them into law and start applying them? They're not fooling anyone anymore, gentlemen of the Government: I'm sorry, but you yourself have settled down in time of reckoning, because this government is unable to give out to the reality in which we find ourselves. How do you think you can bring to an end a whole change in the police model and the emergences of Catalonia? I'm sorry, but they're not all over the place. We will vote, as I say, in favour of the law decree, and we hope that it will be approved for this chamber, because it is a necessity, as the secretary general of the department says, imperative, to which we must give compliment in an untiring manner. And to finish my intervention I would also like to send a affectionate hug to the companies of Tarragona, Mont-roig and Reus, who have suffered in their people or in their party unpleasant episodes and few democracies that we should avoid all pleas and condemn. Thanks for the work you do to the territories, companies and companies, thanks for holding on to some cars and reels as a representation of an important part, also, in Catalonia, of the citizenry. Thank you, everybody. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.33.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then, for the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Pomão, the deputy Marc Parés has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.34.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, chance has meant that this decree will bring you to the plenary the coming of a tragedy that has set us a little further ahead of the miracle to make us realize the import of the emergence services and the excellent task that all of them do: the firemen, the movements, the local police, the medical emergence services, the civil protection, the municipal services. I would therefore like to begin my intervention by showing our support for the victims of these aided ones and our recognition of all the public servers and servers of this country, professional, elected, voluntary, who at times like these are left behind to manage in the best possible way an emergence of these characteristics. An emergence that, like the fires of the estuary that we lived in the Ebre River, therefore, also poses a manifest that, in addition to expanding seedlings to emerge, it is also important to prevent and mitigate the risk. Indeed, they call more human resources to Bombers and Mossos, among other things to deal with situations like this. But it's also important, we believe, to bet decisively on prevention and mitigation. And this has to do, for example, with urbanism, with the constructions that we are doing about the rivers; this has to do with the cleanness of the rivers, which, unfortunately, has not been as good as it was before, because of the lack of political will and of presuppositional endowment. This also has to do with building social skills in our communities to know how to respond ahead of these emergencies. I heard yesterday, I think it was the Mayor of Arenys de Mar, who explained that as long as the laughter had been buried years ago, so the people no longer understood the risk of the same way and, therefore, the importance of the memory of the episodes of catastrophes also to prevent the reaction before the emergences of the present and of the future. Well, our parliamentary group is fully aware of the structural deficiencies that have suffered from the Generality's Bomber Cos as well as the Squad Mosses Cos long ago. And, therefore, we will collect this decree of law that they present to us today. We also recognize the effort being made from the department to reverse this situation, although it is clear that what we are doing today is only a first step and that there is still much work to be done. And I think that's what we all agree on. Now, we also think it's important..., because in some moments we see a certain tendency to put medals on for these first steps that we, as we have said, recognize, but it's important that we also recognize why we've come to this situation, as we are where we are. And we're where we are because this country has two years immersed in the paradigm of austerity, two years lost without public investment, two years without calling for public places in Mossos, Bombers and so many other places. And so, these governments from which you are heresy, from the government of President Mas, which was the one who started the retails, until the later governments, which have not reversed them, so they have been led by the same political force and, therefore, it is also a waste to put on the table that we are not saving the country now, but that we are reversing the worst public policies that we have experienced in Catalonia in the last forty years, that we are grappling with the country, because they are carrying their public services. Therefore, it is time to start reversing this situation. In the case of the bombers, Catalonia had 2,500 professional bombers and 2,500 volunteer bombers, and the reality is that at the end of last year, professional bombers were already 2,093, so four hundred less, and the volunteer bombers between five hundred and eight hundred, so two thousand less. Not to mention the very scarce presence of women to the Bombers Cos – and the Mossos Cos, too – another of the problems that we are very concerned about. Last year, professional firefighters made more than 500,000 hours outside and have been eight years without knowing the place. Some deficiencies, these and those of Mossos, but especially in the case of Bombers, which are not only staff deficits, that also, but also that are deficient in infrastructures, equipments, materials, as the report of the Syndic of Greuges, elaborated last month of May of Enguany. The system based on the coexistence of professional firefighters and volunteer firefighters came into crisis from the retail of the year 2010 and, as was announced before, the government decided to expel the Bombers from the services considered essential, something that was truly incomprehensible, which caused them not to be free from retail. They told us then, therefore, that the bombardment effort, which they are doing, that we have seen all of us, which we saw yesterday, that we saw in the summer at the Bank of Hebrews, that this great effort, that this is not an essential service. For what you do to Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad. So, even though we're now creating nine seats, the problem is we'll keep it on the table. Moreover, it seems quite obvious that there will be a massive exodus of moves towards the local police because the conditions of work for local police are much better and, therefore, what happens is that the moves go to the local police. Therefore, it is not thought that with the creation of these nine places, which I insist that they are absolutely necessary, the problem is not solved either of the Cos de Mossos, nor of the Cos de Bombers, because the disinvestment suffered during all these years has been so severe that now recover a certain normality will require a very great effort. This decree, on the other hand, shows that there is a good agreement between the Department of Interior and the Department of Economy, between Mr. Buch and Mr. Aragonès. We would also like to see Mr. Aragonese have a good tune, for example, with Mrs. Jordan, and thus make effective the nine positions committed by rural agents; with Mrs. Vergés, and so begin to reverse also detail in the field of salvation; with Mr. Bargalló, to recover investments in the field of education; with Ms. Chacón, and to end the precariousness of the young university research professors, etc. Therefore, at the time of making priorities, the Government understands that it should also have a broader look. Our group, as I said, will vote in favour of this decree by law, because we believe that it is a need for extreme urgency, as we have defended in various motions and resolutions. Now, we do have some observations or points that we want to put on the table. The first, the inadequacy, is to say, we are all aware that with this we do not solve the problem and that we have problems that need urgent action. Therefore, what we also plant in the case of Mossos is the creation of a boss of structural hours that, while these resources do not arrive, allows to cover the needs. The second observation is about the typology, we are concerned about what these effects will be in the case of the Mossos, because if these effects are to go to anti-disturbation, we believe that we are facing a new problem. We believe that what we have to do is police to make police close to us, to make police secure, but not to prevent them, that's not what we need, that's not the priority right now. Third, the territorial distribution of these nine places. We all know that the city of Barcelona has more agents, not to face demonstrations and protests, but to address the problems of theft and petty crime. Now, there are many other territories in Catalonia that also have these problems and that need to be done. Therefore, we are also concerned about how these effects will be distributed over the territory. Therefore, we ask you to ensure that you are destined there more and that you do not feed the territorial inequalities that we already have in Catalonia in so many and so many other services where rural areas want less services than urban areas. And lastly, and finally, the last element that we are also concerned about is that this does not cover or avoid the compliment of other work commitments that have been made with the Bombers Cos, which should also be acquired with the Squadron Cos, commitments also adopted with proposals for resolution in this chamber that we believe should be covered. And let's not spoil the rest of the problems that we continue to have on the table in labor, for example, those that have to do with temporary contracts, right? I mean, we need to be aware that this is AOFs' temporary contracts, even if it's expanded, so the hours that they're taking are running out, and so if we have a fire at the end of the summer, we don't have the resources anymore. We are also particularly concerned about the situation of the GEM, that it is dismantling itself to pass it to the SEM and that we do not see any clarity criteria as to how this is being done and how it should be resolved. That said, as I have advanced, we will vote in favour of this decree, because we believe that it is necessary for accountability, with all the observations I have detailed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the return of Mrs Maria Sirvent's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.36.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. We've already dealt with this decree a few months ago, and what we want to do is make it manifest is that this decree sweeps two things, sweeps the situation of the Bombers and the situation of the Squad Mosos. You have the counselor present this decree explaining that they have used the repositioning fee, so the state has allowed it. Sometimes they make us think or repeat the mantra that when we're on the presuppositional prorogate we can't expand the seats of midwives, teachers, social educators... And, therefore, it was a permanent chanting time to approve assumptions. Now, precisely with this decree, we have discovered that it is possible, that, in a period of presuppositional extension, it is possible to expand the seats of Mossos d'Esquadra and Bombers. And, therefore, it is simply a question of priorities and political will. That said, if this decree only brings in the approval of 750 new squadron seats, when the prevailing security model is what it is, when there is no type of planning and when we don't know how these seats will be distributed, the CUP has positioned us against it. In change, this decree also brings the summons or consolidation of the seats of 250 bombers. We are aware of the situation in which our companies work and, therefore, the Bomber Cos also needs to be able to have these places in order to be able to finish its work on condition and not with the situation of infra-financing and without the right materials to develop it, and that is why we will abstain. There are things that are minimal and this is the case of the Bomber Cos. We have seen different trade unions of different signs and different colors have positioned together, and this means that the situation has reached the limit. We also see that this does not only affect workers, obviously, but also affects the working class that every day you see as public servants are more degraded. But we also want to denounce the prevailing security model, which is a reactive model and is a model contrary to human rights. And, Mr. Buch, you can say what you want in this faristol, but that's what everybody sees. The prevailing security model means that security policies are conceived as a way of maintaining an unjust and unequal system, as a way of suppressing political and social protest before injustices. In fact, we are not talking about winged parties, but we are talking about a systematic way of acting and a way that responds to a very concrete police model: monitoring, follow-up, persecution of social movements, absolutely criminalizing attestations... And that is not what we are saying today or yesterday, we have said on various occasions: with the charges, when there are people defending public health, when they are defending the public university and that this Parliament does not lower university taxes. And, therefore, we have already denounced this many times, that what is happening now is a symptom of this police model and of this way of acting, that it is not winged and that it is systemic and that, we repeat, we have denounced on many occasions. And, I repeat, I can already tell you what you want, that this you see everyone, people above all who fight against the tyranny of power that you represent. And, in addition, they do it on the basis of a rape report that this government is primarily responsible for and the protagonist, a model that, in addition, has very concrete consequences for our companies: thirty-one people who are entrepreneurs, more than two hundred detainees and more than six hundred injured people. This is the balance of his government's police model. And, therefore, we will continue to defend that it is a radical change, that it may violate this model of security and that, therefore, when we talk about security we also talk about guaranteeing the rights and needs of the majority of the population, putting life at the center. And that's why we also have more social educators, more midwives and more teachers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.37.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mrs Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.38.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Mirin, under the uniform of a police officer there is no political feeling, there is a total vocation of delivery, of public service, of personal, family and professional sacrifices to serve for freedom..., yes, freedom, because security is what allows us to exercise all our freedoms. Yesterday's plenary, yesterday's session, we saw as well as the same president of the Generalitat attacking and criticizing our Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And here, from here, from the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party, we want to give all of our escalating and gathering to this Squad Ways and also to the other police that helped to guarantee this freedom and security last week, both National Police and Guardia Civil, as local police. That said, today we have a decree here and I think it's important that we make a difference between who are the problems that have the Squad and the Bombers in a joint and shared way, and those that aren't, right? So, Bombers and Rockets have common problems, which are lacking in effectiveness, lack of material and lack of forecast in retirement and second activity. In the case of squadron moves, how does it look like they're the yearbook, huh? , have less good conditions than firefighters, both in salary terms and also in other professional exercise questions. For example, they have marathon and unfulfilled days – we have seen this last week–; they have a remuneration for the foreign hours that are under, and above all, the price of the ordinary hour; they have fallen and insufficient material; they also have a lack of career plan and even a lack of forecast of early retirement, as they do have local police, and they even endorse the same Inspection of Treball, which is not out of the way because there is no belief on the part of the department that it can be. Despite that, we're going back to giving up this decree, aren't we? Why do we think there's a need for as many moves as there are firemen, right? And they also need, in fact, the Emergence and 112 services. But we need to make some specific mention to the last five extremes. Because we, the lords of the People's Party, do not believe in presuppositional magical realism. I mean, we're in front of a decree where there's a supply and a endowment, right? , an endowment to make this new supply of seats come true. Go on, it's funny, it's exactly the same talent that the government presented to the 2020 assumptions, when they presented it at a powerpoint, but it hasn't dared yet, nor did it have the political courage or the ability to present them to this chamber. That they don't want to present your assumptions for 2020? Have they given it up yet? If you have even made the same Councillor of the Interior stand on his knees before the CUP and before Catalonia in Comú Can we see if that's how you can support the assumptions on the part of these parliamentary groups, and you've already given up on that? Two. We have no presuppositions. So, if you give it up, without any presuppositions, where do you get the money? Because we have some extended assumptions from 2017, which they don't have this provision, and therefore it can't be done. So, if they don't serve us..., if they don't present assumptions– point 3 – neither do they serve us nor do they serve us the extension of 2017, then there is no presuppositional endowment, if these moneys come from? How exactly can they cope with this expansion of the Mossos and Bombers workforce? Explain it to us, because you say yes, Mr. Counselor, but I want you to explain it to me, because it looks like a little electoralist. I don't know if he's already getting ready for nine elections, because if they ever give up on the assumption and make this provision of seats, then leave no doubt. Look, you're wearing this legislature – and I think it's a good reflection – twenty-two decrees law for your validation. They presented, like the government, eight proposals from the law, only two were approved, and they serve another time a law decree to provide places for public function. Look, it's an instrument that's useful, that's normal, that's ordinary in legislative processing, but it's a chant. There is no opposition group that can refuse to accept that it is necessary to provide nine places for firefighters and police. We'll vote for it on account of responsibility, but I don't need to use this star to press the opposition and then...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.39.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.40.0	...to make electoral announcements.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.41.0	Thank you. The return is now for the Republican Parliamentary Group. Mrs Montserrat Fornells has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.42.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. First of all, I'd like to get all the cheer to the families of the victims and missing people because of the rainstorm we've suffered in our country, and send all the support and all the strength to the gatherings, the veins and the veins that have been damaged in their properties. And secondly, we also show all the thanks of our group to all the emergencies, security, gatherings, volunteers and volunteers who have worked, collaborated and participated in the tasks that have survived because of this time. We find ourselves in front of the debate and vote of the Decree of 14/2019, of 17 September, which authorizes the creation of 750 new seats of Mossos d'Esquadra and 250 new seats of the Cos de Bombers of the Generality of Catalonia. We've been debating an equal decree for the past month. As we said at that time and we will also be repeating ourselves today, the more effective use of moves and firefighters is of all necessity and we will give support, since there is a structural deficiency to the two plants and these calls of new places are needed that are due to the end. There are questions that we have already discussed in this Chamber in different motions that have been approved, also in different questions that have been put to the Councillor, and also in different motions for resolutions that have been put to the Committee on the Interior. With this new summons, as the Councillor has explained to us, will overcome, with the two decrees, the more than 5,500 new moves and fifty new bombers facing the nine plants. Now, always – always, but still more after the sad events of this past week – that the entry of these acts serves to guarantee a modern, exemplary, democratic and proximity police model, that helps to renew the process and that prioritizes in its actions mediation, proportionality, and always guarantees the best public service and the highest prestige for the Catalan police. Let us remember that the Squadron Mosses Cos has as its priority objectives to preserve the exercise of the civil and political rights of the joint citizens and to guarantee the security of our country. From our group we understand that the vast majority of the effects of the cos guide the vocation of service and democratic values. For this reason, for the sake of the same thing and to give an answer to the citizenry, guarantee the existing protocols, review any action that may have been unjustified and, if so, that may be debugging responsibilities and informing the citizenry with total transparency. The Mossos must follow a democratic police force, of which the assembly of the citizenry is proud, and be perceived as guarantors of our rights and freedoms. For what he does to the bombers, again this summer we have been able to prove with the unfortunate fires that occurred in the Ribera d'Ebre, the Lower Ebre, the Garrigues and Segria – more than five thousand hectares cremated – and also with other fires that have occurred at the length of the year, we have been able to generate..., the patience of the whole country for the cremated hectares that..., which has found its place in our country. Luckily, with the extra effort of the bombers and with the support of safety, of volunteering, the disgrace has not yet been greater. They keep up prevention tasks throughout the year, work to prevent forest fires, and the lack of effect is obvious. And that's why you'd call like this one today on the way to fix it. We also have many more times to accomplish and achieve, to improve our country's security and emergencies. In fact, we have discussed it, we have explained it on many occasions, both in this Chamber and in the Committee on the Interior, that, in addition to the lack of effectiveness, there are also other deficiencies in material, in the renovation of parks, in the renovation of vehicles. Let's hope that with the new presupposition of 2020 we have a new opportunity to start putting it down, to start putting threads to the needle at all these faults that have suffered over the years from the Bomber's Cos, the Squadron's Cos. We are all aware of these shortcomings and the shortcomings that exist, and we have not spoken, as I have said, at various times, so we need to address them and we must all conjure up to continue to work to attend and to solve these problems and these difficulties. I think it's unanimous, in fact, all the representatives who have spoken have said, this will. We have to make it happen. We do it with responsibility and without generating false expectations. Our task as parliamentarians must be to work, to pressure and to do everything possible because this is a reality. With this new call for moves and firefighters, which is an obvious and urgent need..., because it is necessary to give compliments and reinforce their plants, with the compromise to improve their organization, to have some security and some exemplary and adapted emergencies that the country needs, looking forward to the future with the best guarantees. We're all working to make it possible. From our group, we'll do that. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the return of Mr Ferran Roquer. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.44.0	All right, thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, in an approximate year is the second time we find ourselves in this hemisphere to validate a decree that increases the number of squad movements and functional bombers of the Generalitat de Catalunya. And we find ourselves there for the second year also with conditions that make this call difficult. We are under the 2014 Law of General Presuppositions of the State, which prevents the increase of staff, and we find ourselves with a presuppositional extension of the Generality that makes this call substantially difficult. And we especially value this effort that it represents to serve the repositioning rate, repositioning rate not only of the effects of the Department of Interior, but repositioning rate that affects all departments of the Generality, by jealous definition of its staff. And I want to put in value what for three years, according to the economic memory of this decree, will cost the Generality this public offer. It will cost 75,977,000 euros, almost 76 million euros in three years. Ms. García, the first 3_millions that will be spent by 2020 will come out of the surpluses of the Català Transit Service, will come out of the charge of the accident tax and the charge of other taxes of the Department of Interior. And if there are no assumptions, as the same economic memory says, the government's expenses will be restructured. Therefore, rest assured, that we will present assumptions and, if we do not present them, organize the expenditure. I'll refer to it later, but these increments of plants obey a process of study that all decisions of the managers of the public thing should have. For what it does to the bombers, it evaluates the weakened and strengthened Bombers Cos, and, as a consequence, and starting from the Strategic Pla 2017-2022, the Project Bombers 2025 is developed, which increases by 40_millions the 207_millions that the strategic pla provides, reaching up to 247_millions, to satisfy the different needs and gaps that it detects this study: lack of personnel operating to maintain the minimum of each park, which has been said; lack of investment in infrastructures, repositioning of infrastructures, repositioning of vehicles, material for firefighters and technical and administrative support. And the same plate Bombers 2025 marks two strategic lines, one of which is to guarantee the ability to act of the bombers. And, in these objectives, of the eight objectives, objective 1 is to have staff operating sufficiently to attend to all emergencies at the right time and in the right way and to attend to situations of simultaneousity, need and circumstances. Therefore, this call fits this need. The government plan of the Dotcena Legislature incorporates the need to have more firefighters and establishes as an indicator of the government's performance the fact of the evolution of the name of firefighters. Another compromise to which this decree gives cover: the agreement that has been signed between the Department of Interior and the trade unions representing the body that has been included in a government agreement and that previews, more than other things like the reduction of the working day or places of internal promotion, that had taken a thousand places between the year 2019 and the year 2022. With this call – with this call – we already arrive at five thousand. In another order of things, but in the same sense, the Greuges Syndic makes a report, which he presented to the Commission d'Interior, which went a long way in the line of what the Project Bombers 2025 is about, and among other things it is important to apply a shoc plan to equip the Bombers Cos with the necessary human resources, technical and infrastructure; it also asks to include the agreement between unions and the Department of Interior and to implement the Project Bombers 2025. It seems, therefore, that all agents operating in the country's emergence system have detected the need to increase the number of effects. And, in this sense, 250 seats were called in 2019, 250 seats were called in 2020, 150 seats had been called in 2017, 350 places of volunteer bombers were called in; in the field of promotion, 194 places of first-rate bombers, 117 places of corporal, 63 places of sergeant, 50 officers and 25 subinspectors were called in. With these seats and waiting for me to go to the 250 Bomber School of the 2019 Promotion, there are 2,316 Bombers in Catalonia. There is one thing, counselor: there are only forty-one women. As in this call and they see it, this proportion is increasing. [[Greetings.]] I think that as managers of the public thing we have to demand it. Therefore, this decree in the field of firefighters gives response to the Bombers 2025 project, to the agreement of the government of the Dozene Legislature, to the agreement between the unions represented by the Bombers Cos and the Department of Interior and to the recommendation of the report of the Greuges Syndicate; an example of cohesion and dialogue that other governments could apply. In the case of the Mossos, the governing agreement of the Dozene Legislature also establishes the need to strengthen the model of security to guarantee democracy, coexistence and protection of people and their benefits. And to do so, you plan to increase the squadron moves template and set as indicator the evolution of the squadron's cos effect number. It has been said that in 2006 we had to have 18,267 police officers in this country – we did not have as much as 17,138 police officers, and today, today, with the incorporation of the last four hundred and five, there are 16,904 police officers – that it is a number thought of the year 2006 and that has been said to him by all parliamentary groups who have spoken that it may increase. It'll grow, because when these three-thousands come out we'll be enough for over 18,200. Speaking of 2006, when the transfer of Mossos was made, the Government of Spain..., which did not settle when President Torra called it, did not settle there when the Catalans told him: « Pay'mels 800_millions that gave me the transfer of the Mossos d'Esquadra so that my rulers could make policies for us, nor do they pose there. I have the feeling that if this cycle has been completed, the police landscape that has been on our streets today, full of national police and civilian guards, which on occasions seem to be the dictator's dophins, would be another. Counselor, protect the Squad Mossos, require internal performance evaluation procedures to work, and, depending on the results, take the actions that fail. In this way, the cos that on many occasions has guaranteed the security of Catalans – remember the events of the Eleventh of September from 2012 until here or the model act out of the storms of the Rambla of 2017 – will continue to be valued for citizenship as one of the most valued institutions of Catalonia. Obviously, we will support this validation decree, because sense of doubt will help the citizens of Catalonia to live better because they will be safer. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.45.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Pause.]] [[Expression of condolences and solidarity with the relatives of the victims of the floods of October 22nd]] We have called for a vote, once the debate is over, but before we proceed to this vote, we will be allowed, on behalf of the House, to express our deepest condolences on the heavy flooding in our country and to express our solidarity with the relatives of the victims and to accompany them at these times. For this reason, I propose to serve a minute of silence in sign of pain. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. [[Decree of 14/2019, of 17 September, authorizing the creation of 750 places of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and 250 places of the Cos de Bombers of the Generalitat de Catalunya (continuation)]] [[203-00022/12]] Let us now turn to the vote of the Decree Ill 14/2019, of the validation. It is understood, as you know perfectly well, that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and that the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. Decree Law 14/2019_is validated by 120 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. In accordance with the provisions of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Rule 158.4, and once the decree has been ratified, I would like to ask the House whether any parliamentary group wants to process this decree as a bill. Don't you? (Pause.) Therefore, it is a woman to validate this decree, which will not be processed as a bill of law. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into climate emergence]] [[302-00145/12]] And now we go to the next item on the order of the day, we go to the motions, concretely to the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the climate emergency, presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose it has the word Mr. Jordi Terrades. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.46.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the Socialist Parliamentary Group appreciates positively that today the plenary of the Parliament is manifest, after it becomes clear that we are in a climate emergency – which we did not get a few hours ago – the need also to create a parliamentary committee to monitor the climate emergency. From here I also want to thank the work in that Ple that we did not get this statement made by Congressman Pep Puig and the rest of the Members and Members that we participated in the attempt to agree on a consensual and majority position. Because, look, the effects of the climate change are noticeable; the need to adapt us is a fact. And in the face of climate change, it is reasonable to cooperate to address from the maximum possible consensus all the changes that we will have to produce in the production models, in the consumption models, in the mobility models, in the energy models. And that's why it's also, from our point of view, important, and that's why we've defended it – we've been proposing it for a long time, finally Parliament's Plenary agreed – the need to celebrate a second climate change summit in Catalonia, which was accepted by the government. At the interview I went to the counselor, there was a date; if I don't remember correctly, the 17th generation. It's not the date for us, is it? The important thing is that you celebrate the year you see and that you celebrate well. And what do I mean by that? So what we want to say is that we have to come up with real proposals, consensual proposals, accepted proposals, and that we can prepare it correctly; we do not have a date and then we do not have the chance to prepare this summit properly. It must be a transparent summit, seeking the maximum participation of all economic, environmental, social and political actors in order to achieve positive results for the future of our country. Because to start the path of decarbonization in Catalonia and to reach the target set for 2050 to bring to the Parliament of Catalonia the carbon assumptions that the Climate Change Law fixes for the two own periods, from 2021 to 2025 and from 2026 to 2030, with sufficient time for this Parliament to debate and approve them, and because they can enter into force, that its validity is effective from the 1st generation of 2021. It also boosts the transition to an energy system based on renewable energy sources. We continue to defend the need that in the next decade, in Catalonia, we need to install deu_mil megawatts of renewable energy. And the first step to do so is to repeal Decree 147/2009, which today is a milestone in the development of renewables in Catalonia. We need a new regulation that will definitely boost renewables. If we do not raise the limits to wind and photovoltaics, we will not reach the targets set for the European Union for the year 2030. We also consider that it is a law that increases emissions of greenhouse gases; it is also said the Climate Change Law. Only by making it pay for emissions to be able to develop green technologies both to industry and to transport, and the recovery of this new taxation and, above all, its return to society, together with the actors, must be transparent and perceptible in a clear way and with concrete measures; for example: renewal of distribution flows – what we know as the distribution of the last mile; here we have a problem, so we believe that this fleet renewal has to be subsidized – ; subsidy to renew the most polluting vehicles; increases in contributions to public transport; effective construction of the WAV bus; electrification of transport – examples, eh? In short, what we propose in this motion is to try to look – and above all with the climate change summit – and to agree on great country consensus to reverse and adapt to the climate change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, the deputy Marc Sanglas, of the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.48.0	Vice-President, Members, Members, in any case, I expose the position of this parliamentary group in substitution of the company Ferran Civit, who is used to carrying the themes of climate change, but, in the face of the impact of the plugs in its municipality, the Espluga de Francolí, is there, a few territories, and therefore, let us say, the substitute in its intervention. I will certainly not do so well as he does, because these themes dominate them much better, but, in any case, the fact of the water produced in the Sluggish, and the rest of the country also – I mean, surely the impact at Camp Tarragona has been greater – allows us to focus on a topic that must be of concern to us: these water, these changes in atmospheric phenomena that someone tells us that they never occur, that there were no effects on the day to day..., it is clear that the climate change is here and has come to stay, and that it will not change or not go away if there are different places, and starting with personal attitudes, we do not start a change in the mechanisms of the day to day that we all have in our abyss. Therefore, we believe that these meteorological phenomena must be used to raise awareness of the city as a whole, because it is clear that the climate change exists and affects us. And it must also be made clear that when administrations sometimes make decisions about how to affect water or water comebacks, that sometimes they may seem to be decisions at times an exaggerated risk, then these things happen. And, in any case, after we do and after we regret that certain phenomena pass, but permissiveness in certain activities or constructions in certain places afterwards carries certain risks that no one will ever take. And, therefore, there must be a global compromise to fight against these situations and, in any case, to be aware when these situations are produced and with the predictions that they can produce them. Entering as soon as the motion was put... and in any case, he wanted to thank Mr. Terrades for his ability, let's say, of interlocution and the ability to get to the acceptance of some issues and transaction of some others and, in any case, announce the favorable vote of the Republican Group at the five points. We believe, as Mr. Terrades exposed in his exposition... the themes of the fight against climate change cannot be the result of a party struggle, which in any case is to reach these great consensuses. He was asking for Mr. Terrades at the top of the climate change to be done next year. We think that's it; it can't be a trigger weapon at the top of administrations that have skills in this matter, but it's precisely about getting to these consensuses. Administration consensuses that must lead us, therefore, surely, to move this image also to the citizenry that must allow us..., I insist, there is a change of attitudes at the personal level that must allow us to work against the climate change. We believe that some of the elements that we have introduced in the text, in the transactions, such as the fact of the statement are important. We believe that it is worth it that this Parliament is pronounced and made this declaration of the climate emergency; we believe that it is important, and therefore we want to emphasize it, rather than creating this parliamentary committee that is called for, which is also important, but that there has been a formal declaration on the issue of climate emergency. We know, we insist, that this global ecological crisis, caused, let's say, all over the planet – and, therefore, it will have an abscess all over the planet; we see, I insist, in meteorological phenomena that are produced in the country, but they are also produced outside – we have to be alerted. We see that the natural resources of the country, of the world, of the planet, are finite and that, therefore, the climate change affects them. Certain acts that may have a place at a point on the planet, even though it may seem that they have no intervention over our..., they do have it. Any action in other areas ends up causing a global scalding, ends up causing an action at any other point on the planet. Therefore, we are ahead of a global situation, as global solutions, but also with local action. And, therefore, from this point of view, we believe that we can continue to struggle and believe that this motion for a resolution also puts a grain of smile in making possible the finalization or, at least, our grain of smile against this climate change struggle. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it's the turn of Deputy Josep Puig, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.50.0	Thank you, Vice-President; thank you, Members. The phenomena that we are living these days are nothing but that we have not been warned of from the first reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change; meteorological phenomena more intense and more frequently. So it's up to all of us to do it. Allow me to make some reflections respect everything. This debate today perfectly sums up a bunch of misproposals that I have experienced in this Parliament since I started working as parliamentarians, just five months ago. Let me sum it up in three acts, this disarray game into which the climate statement of this Parliament was to be converted. The first act. I just got to Parliament, I got to work to make it possible for me to make a climate statement of Parliament. That's why he wrote a first draft of the statement, which after a bunch of conversations, with a multitude of actors, both from this Parliament and from outside, was converted into the statement text; we got to make a few-tenths of it. As you must know, the statement was not read in plenary, given that a couple of groups did not want it, even though the text incorporated contributions that had been made. A way of doing, in my opinion, a little uncertain and an uneducated sic, since they didn't even give answers to different emails that I personally addressed to them. A very childish act, I think, like those that he described in Vladímir Ilitx Lenin, the leader of the Bolxevic revolution, when he portrayed, in his famous work, the left-handedness: "the infantile malalty of communism. Second act. In the middle of everything, the Socialists Group emerges and, in the accounts of putting in practice the value of historical socialism, cooperation, strives to put in practice the opposite value, competition, and presents an inquiry, with the consequent motion, on climate emergence, in which it originally incorporated a good part of the text of the frustrated declaration, which had been elaborated with the participation of multiple people, of many people. And not only that, that if it is intended to be anecdotal, but that the motion presented seems to defocus on the problem, since everyone has the function of this government, while the statement had the objective that the Parliament is declared itself in climate and labor emergence as a consequence. The government already declared the climate emergency on May 14th, and on September 17th it approved an agreement to give support to actions aimed at fighting climate change; therefore, it has a lot of work ahead of it. The third act. Having prepared papers to the motion, incorporating a good part of the text of the frustrated statement, a corporate body comes into the scene that self-sustains the power to say what a petition can or cannot contain to a motion, and has just unravelled the whole process of sending to the motion. The result of this game of disarrays in three acts is the motion that we are debating today and that does not involve any concrete compromises for this Parliament or for the groups that conform it or its members. Yes, we urge the Government of the country to do a whole series of things, while we do not commit ourselves to acting in the face of the climate crisis and escape our responsibility to deal with the climate emergency as members of this Parliament. And our responsibility is to make it a reality that this Parliament is declared in a climate emergency and battles on the first line to deal with the very serious climate crisis caused by the addition to the foam cream to provide energy. Finally, for what he does to the motion, thank the willingness of Congressman Jordi Terrades to accept and negotiate the papers, and announce that we will vote in favour of the motion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.51.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, to fix his position has the first word, the deputy David Bertran, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.52.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the climate change that involves this global scalding associated with the hand of man is a fact that has long been scientifically demonstrated and has potential negative consequences associated with very hard for the future; all this, if not working among all to prevent them. With the rate of greenhouse gas emissions from the past few years, the fear was that our planet would increase its temperature between three and four degrees by the year 2100, a situation that would tend – and we are already beginning to see 'n' – devastating effects for which it pushes the sea level, falling from agricultural production or natural disasters, such as floods and forest fires. Fortunately, in one band, at the Paris summit in 2015, one of the great fictitious international politics and on which the European Union held a leading role, it succeeded in agreeing countries as disparate as the Xina, the United States, India, Russia and Germany, which only between them already count for 55_percent of these global emissions, and it was achieved that the total practice of the world states accepted without taking action because the temperature level did not rise by two degrees by 2100. The Paris agreements say that all administrations and citizens in their conjunction must put our grain of sorra to society's awareness and make hands and hands to achieve these goals. We therefore agree that the Government is working with the Committee of Recognition Experts on climate change appointed for this Parliament and that there is a report on the carbon footprint in Catalonia, as well as developing these carbon assumptions from 2021 to 2030 in order to be able to complete and tax the Government's action in order to arrive, therefore, at the reduction that is already required, of 40_per_cent, established for the European Union for this year and 2030. Similarly, we will also vote in favour of point 4, on the repeal of Decree 147/2009, which developed, so, as the year 2009 tells you, where there was the tripartite. Therefore, there was the government of the PSC and the subsequent governments chose to maintain it. It is a decree that has prevented the development in Catalonia of wind and solar photovoltaic renewable energies at a good rate and in an extensive manner. In fact, in Catalonia we only count on a 2-percent of the total wind farm in all of Spain. And for what it does to photovoltaics, we are clearly under other autonomous communities, such as Castella - the Manxa, Andalusia, Extremadura, Castella and Lleó or Múrcia. We are concerned, therefore, as at present, that the energy mix in Catalonia counts only with a 9_percent renewable energy, when the European Union calls for this mix to be 32_per_cent for two years; much work remains to be done. For what it does, therefore, to this necessary decarbonization of the economy, it is certain that the experts say that it is necessary to tax these activities that emit gases of winter effect, given that they produce these negative externalities, which impact on the joint venture of the society. And in this sense, in fact, the European Union has already developed compliance legislation, for which it does the right of each Member State to issue. And we see that sectors such as airlines or industrial companies across Spain, including Catalonia, already pay for these emissions of CO2 through the emissions market. Therefore, with what the PSC is proposing to its Member State, at the fifth point in its Member State, to impose a new tax on these economic activities only in Catalonia, we would be imposing – if we accept it – a discriminatory framework for Catalan companies, which are already paying, in fact, for their emissions, and which see how they lose competitiveness unfairly in respect of the rest of the autonomous communities, which are their main market. It is obvious, for example, that if an industrial company sees how to apply this specific tax, which only exists in Catalonia, in the metropolitan area of Barcelona, with all economic rationality, it will choose to transfer its production to other autonomous communities, in order to avoid this overtax. And it's pretty obvious that this tax will be completely useless, given that the winter-effect gases will continue to affect us equally. These gases – and the climate change in its conjunction – do not stop at the Aragó or the Valencian Community, it does not go by regions. As I said, and in the end, the fight against climate change is one that works from every possible point of view, but it must be done with rationality, acting locally when this is the most effective, but also acting more globally, when this is the most effective. Therefore, from this administration has the full sense of the world that we act consciously to the people and proactively encourage the development of low carbon technologies, as well as renewable energies. And in the same way, it also has every sense that we act at the state level, and above all, supranational, to achieve a price for these negative externalities, without this entailing an inequality of opportunity for our businesses and our economy in their joint venture. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.53.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of Congressman Lucas Ferro, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.54.0	Thank you very much, President. Members and Members, I am already moving forward, before we begin the debate, which we share all the points of the motion and which we will vote for, but I would like to focus my intervention not only on the points of the motion, but on an attitude which I believe is recurring on the part of the Government, and which I believe is blocking the legislative action of this Parliament. And it is that we already have consensus in this Parliament on general and concrete lines of action in the field of climate change, climate change and energy transition, the only thing we have is that we have a government to which if the motions are approved or not approved, that it does nothing, and that it forces the rest of the parliamentary groups to make every time we want to talk about energy transition and climate change, we take points of motion that we have approved two, three, five, sometimes, and to put them again, to put them back on the table and to demand that, if you please, it would be better for the government to assume that the motions that are coming are translated into public policies in this country. We are talking again about the repeal of Decree 147/2009. Two thousand nine. A decree which has caused years lost in renewable energy; a decree in which Catalonia has not practically installed renewable power and which has lost two years to it, which were closed in order to be able to complete the European objectives in the field of renewable energy which we fail to achieve, and which did not involve, on the part of the different governments in these two years, a minimally serious reflection. We could have repealed 2010, 2011, 2012..., the effects of the decree were clear from years ago. And today, at least, what we hope is that the compromise of the groups that you support the Government to repeal it in less than three months can be completed, and that we do not need to be in the plenary of generation, of fever, of March 2020 demanding, if you please, that it be completed, because this point we voted on, which I remember, as at least, in July of January, and as at least, some time more during the last two legislatures. And so, demand a little bit of the same government that comes out on a press wheel to talk about climate emergence, feel the emergence and feel the urgency of translating what you say into public policies. Because, in the background, the young woman who poses and we share, it's a debate, we believe, at least. A debate on how we give a minimum response to the consensus we already have in this Parliament before the climate emergency. We also talk about the assumptions of carbon, which is not the first time that it appears, and which I hope is the last, and which you have to see with a very simple thing: that perhaps there is not enough to tell all the wheels to press the proud that we are, like the Government, to have such an ambitious climate change law, and we assume that we need to deploy it some time. If we have carbon assumptions in 2021, congratulations, we hope to have them, but to keep them, as the government does, that is not the first reason we ask for them. And on the subject of green taxation, I'd like to make two comments. The first, if we deploy the Climate Change Law in green taxation, and we can apply it the year you see or the other, better – remember. And the second, a comment by Mr Bertran, from Ciutadans : it is very good to say that if businesses in Catalonia pay taxes for the pollution they cause – that, for another band, it is the criteria of the European directives – it is a burden; perhaps what is a burden is that you have turned the community of Madrid into a tax haven, which competes for the low in rights, such as the right to have a healthy environment and to finance the energy transition in that country. Maybe the debate is just the reverse of how the plantation. And the only thing we're asking for today, that we support the PSC's motion, is for the government to stick around and do the work. And a second question: that we regain the ambition to think public policies of the future. These days I've been reviewing the November 10 election programs. And I don't want to over-electoralism, but, of course, we are still ambitious from Catalonia too, to stop the future governments of the State that will be there. We still have, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, some ambitious programmes, with indefinite objectives, without concrete proposals for green taxation, as you have in your motions and in your electoral programmes. And the targets were 20, 30 years old, zero residue by 2050. You won't defend today, a zero residue strategy by 2050, and you won't defend it when you bring the bill to Catalonia. We remain ambitious and regain ambition at all levels of administration and politics, to make public policies brave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of the deputy Natalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.56.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. We also make it clear: we will vote in favour of this motion, but we want to see what has already been said, and to see an important question, which is the limitation of sovereignty that represents being submissive to a Spanish state which on land, sea and air constantly suspects and annuls approved laws. Because, Mr. Terrades, you know better that I already have broad consensus on this chamber, that there is a climate change law that is intervened for the State and, therefore, to point out this issue, that the fight against climate change, that the fight for climate change will have to be done autonomously and independently to the Spanish State, that it does not work precisely to fight against climate change. And I'll also look at a specific question, point 4. We are fully in agreement with the repeal of the decree and with the move towards a denuclearized energy model. On February 2019, his government, the government of Pedro Sánchez, agreed with the companies of the IBEX to extend the nuclear power plants to the territory. And he knows that perfectly well. How does it fit? How does a proposal of the PSC that claims and says and fills the mouth of a denuclearized energy model fit, when we have a government of the State that what is being done is to apply prorogations to nuclear power plants that are already obsolete and that, moreover, go against the Climate Change Law? We believe that radical changes, valiant changes, changes that I put..., that are at the height of circumstances and that the voice of the people, of the people organized to the territories is receding. We would like to see measures like an immediate moratorium on incinerators, which we know the Department of Territori will not pull forward. In fact, the Department of Territories, we are discussing climate emergence and it is not even so simple that it is presented to the parliamentary debate. This is the case of Mr. Damià Calvet, so few expectations in the motions we approve today. And finally – and I finish – when I read about the parliamentary committee, the follow-up to the climate emergency, which, I insist, we will vote for, I thought: "Ostres, the climate emergency, thousands and thousands of people going out to the street to denounce and claim a worthy and healthy future for their lives..., and I thought: "Ostres, a parliamentary committee, which is very uncertain. Well, it also made me think that before police brutality is created a commission that will not serve anything. Brave actions, please. And with that, I'm sure we can find a lot of the groups we're here for.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the turn of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.58.0	Thank you, Vice President. Members and Members of Parliament will allow us a preliminary consideration, because there has been some intervention that to make clear the existence of the climate change, has referred to the stormy episodes that we had during yesterday or the morning before yesterday. I think it's worth explaining that we have to run away from topics. It is precisely the punctual examples to demonstrate something that is not punctual, which undermines the credibility of the reality and the existence of the climate change. Expressions such as today's heat, it's the fault of climate change or today's rain, it's the fault of climate change are precisely those that undermine the credibility of a process that is not visible one day, at a given time, but it's an absolute trend process and that can't be simplified in the anecdote that can represent or a hot day – even a hot week – or a storm at a given time. Yes, from the global point of view, a set of storms can be symptomatic of climate change; first question. Second question – it's been said, too, huh? It's a young lady, the one that's proposed, more gestureal than not practical. There are no concrete commitments, beyond this statement and beyond point 4, in which we disagree in some way, because often the left has the tempt or the left have the tempt to fix things or by imposing taxes, which is what this young man does, or by banning things, which is what the young man goes on to do. We will not give support to the tax that is planted here, we believe that there are other formulas to act there. But then, in relation to point 4, I'm sorry to break, so this certain unanimity. We agree to raise Decree 147, which has meant an impressive barrier to the development of renewable energies. We are in favour of the development of renewable energies, but denuclearization has nothing whatsoever to do with, on the contrary, precisely nuclear energy contributes less to the generation of greenhouse gases. And so, the one that has the least impact on the climate change and the one that can solve the problems of electricity sub-administration, when, like here, renewable energies have not been developed. Therefore, at this point, while agreeing to the derogation of this decree, we shall abstain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. In the last place, to pronounce on the papers, has the words of the proposed deputy, Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.60.0	Thank you, President. They know the groups that have suggested that we will not accept the items 2 and 5; the 5 basically because they are asking the Government of Spain and we believe that it is necessary to present these proposals to the Congress of Deputies or to the Joint Commission between the Government of the Government of the Government of Spain to find the paths, that some were already set in motion, and to look for solutions. Mr Puig has given us a dissertation on how you see Parliament since five months ago. I have already explained to him, in the conversations we have had with the past seven years, that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has made two proposals: the celebration of a second climate change summit and the need for a committee or sub-committee in this Parliament to deal with energy and climate change issues, and that until now the group to which you belong and the government to which you support did not see it completely clearly... well, they did not see it well, they had always voted against it. Now we're happy that this has changed. We also respect the criteria, Mr Puig, of the body of lawyers in Parliament. Mr. Ferro, I don't know if we're greener or less than you are, the only thing I know is that in the last election campaign they looked at Greenpeace, for example, everyone's election programs, and it turns out that the one that made greener proposals, huh? It was the one proposed by the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol. And I wouldn't want to finish these twenty-seven seconds left... to say that today is an important day for this country. With the exhumation of General Franco, democracy is strengthened with dignity. It wasn't a waste that the dictator held a monument where he paid tribute. We're holding a dark chapter of this country's history. Now he is still touching, deputies and deputies, that everyone has the remains of his dead in a place worthy, with names and surnames. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. I called for a vote. ( Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.) Say, Mrs. Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.62.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.63.0	All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez; the 4th? [[Pause.]] All right. So we'll vote first point 4, after 5 and the rest of the vote. Okay? (Pause.) Let us then proceed to the vote on point 4– point 4. The vote begins. Point 4 has been approved by 126 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 90 votes in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved: 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into plastic residues]] [[302-00149/12]] And let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government about the plastic residues, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. To expose it has the word of Congressman Lucas Ferro. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.64.0	Shall I? [[Pause.]] All right, perfect. Thank you very much, President. The challenge of the ecological transition is not only the challenge of climate change and the fight against climate change; there are certainly challenges that are also central to what is being talked about, such as the protection of biodiversity or excessive use, the abuse of natural resources, and the generation of waste. And, therefore, there is a challenge associated with climate emergence and associated with the need for economic transition that is to close the circle of the economy and not lenge as a residue or incinerate as a residue of what is left behind. And we're late. I said it before Mr. Terrades' motion, I repeat it now: the truth is that we are late. But I also want to say that if we get this year to pass an ambitious waste bill, which is ambitious targets and measures to combat the misuse of resources in this country and the generation of waste in this country, we will surely be able to say that the legislation on waste will be worth it. Let's hope it can be, 'cause it's been too many years since it's locked in a cove. Today's recycling is practically the same as it was a couple of years ago, and it's producing the same renewable energy sources as it was a couple of years ago. And, therefore, we would certainly have to do an analysis of what has happened during these two years in the matter of government action and we would have to conclude that there have been two years lost for a lot of things in this country. We have a waste policy of a company that has been unconcerned about the waste it generates; a waste policy that is basically a waste management policy. And I honestly believe that, looking at the society we live in, it doesn't seem that we live in a society that is unconcerned about the effects on the climate and the environment of our actions. And, therefore, what we have is a little government ambition, a little worker and a little concern for waste management, more than a society. And the Law of Residues we have no longer gives more than what we think, and we must think about the quality of the nine European directives, the quality of the nine laws of Residues that are there in the State, such as the Balearic Islands, which are courageous, ambitious, which set clear objectives and which set clear criteria. I believe that the main challenge of the waste law that we are asking to be adopted in this Parliament during this term is to transform it into law, which they have always taught us at school, which is that it first comes back, then it is reused and then it is recycled. And in Catalonia we are still unable to reduce, we produce more waste every time and each time we have more ecological problems and more problems about public health resulting from the waste. It's not that we don't reuse, it's that every time we reuse less, when it should be the second priority of waste policy in Catalonia. In 2010 one_of_each_three blisters..., well, one_of_each_three blisters is reused; today we are in one_of_each_sis, less than half in only two years. This also has to do with this government's inaction. And we've stuck, as I said before, in recycling. And here, many of the conflicts that we are experiencing in the territory of Catalonia: residual cremating cements that affect public health, a wave to convert thermal incinerators into waste incinerators due to their low public utility or expansion projects of abocadores in Catalonia. And until an ambitious proposal on waste is resolved by law, these territorial projects will continue to appear. And, therefore, we want to rebuild this hierarchy. First, we need to reduce resources, then we need to reuse and then we need to recycle. And we want to do it with very concrete elements and criteria. And I'll quote a pair of them. The producer's expanded responsibility, which means a very simple thing, that when a packaging producer puts an envelope in circulation, he must be held responsible throughout his life cycle. Green taxation, which means something that is related to the responsibility of producers, which is that it pollutes pay, that it cannot always start the house for the roof where citizenship and consumers are, many of them without instruments to be able to make alternative consumptions, on which the responsibility for the contamination that they do not generate falls. And then we can push for bold measures that can reduce resource mismanagement; ban the use of a_sol, microplastics; replace products [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] that they are not from a _only used for reusable products, and – and with this I have already finished – study to implement in Catalonia a system of deposit, return and return so that the citizenry of Catalonia can arrange its packaging and return. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to defend the papers presented, has the first word, the deputy Jordi Terrades, of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.66.0	Thank you, President. I'm already advancing that we're going to support the young lady as it was at the end, because we think it's a debate that doesn't start or end up here today, that's going to be important in the next few months. Because, look, both the strategy of the Action Plan for a circular economy such as the recent European directive, 904/2019, which was approved by the European Parliament, and also the statements of the Council of 5 June 2019, which we have known, let us say, in a global way like the Law of Plastics of a Used Sun, introduce us paradigms for the management of plastics. They are very important regulations to move forward, but now we will have to make the effort to transpose into state and autonomous legislation, so to the Congress of Deputies and the Parliament of Catalonia, both governments, which will have to legislate it. We all know... I'll set an example for them, won't I? 80-85_percent of the residues considered waste from the sea are plastic, huh? So, we know and it's clear where we need to concentrate our efforts..., or one of the important efforts of the new law of Catalonia's residue – the one we already have is an obsolete hair, right? And probably what we have to do is transpose this European directive into autonomous law and be able to do so, because I believe that Parliament's legislative powers allow it to go a little further, don't they? , and to extend some of the premises of this directive, above all aimed at protecting the salvation of the citizenry. From here, the two points that my parliamentary group has put forward are clear, right? We believe that it is a matter of introducing the new legislation on waste information to the citizenry regarding the chemical substances found in the plastics, these substances with the ability to alter the endocrine system, right? , and that they can be very harmful not only for the welfare of people and families, but for the public health system. We will also have to approach..., and we will have to compare, when it comes to the new law of residue, experts so as to deepen in the new concept of circular economy, because, sometimes, to introduce all the elements that at these times are produced and are on the market in circular economy can end up causing problems precisely in which I spoke to them before, to the salvation of people, to the salvation of the environment. A recent doctoral thesis by a lawyer, Estela Gutiérrez – who, of course, has cheated on her with the outstanding praise – who reflected – a Catalan – on the need to regulate legislation from a point of view of the competences we have in this Parliament, the Generalitat de Catalunya, but also at a global level, of the European Union and other types of bodies, to be able to tackle this phenomenon from a global scale. These are the questions we need to discuss, aren't they? Also, in the new law of residue. As we stand, in this new paradigm of circular economy, of regulating life, and therefore, the traceability of the product, right? , applying something that I think every time we should be able to get into the debate, that is the ecological intelligence of all of us; also of the producers, right? We believe that we will need to analyse all these new paradigms in the new law of residue, because what we are playing from our point of view, and in what we should focus on is how we live in the product market, as we withdraw from it, how we manage better what we are producing to ensure a good that, from the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance, it is essential that we preserve the salvation of people and also preserve the salvation of the natural environment that surrounds all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of Congressman Francisco Javier Domínguez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.68.0	Thank you, President. Well, in the end, a motion on plastic waste has become a motion in which there are a few more issues that are interesting, even if they are not plastic waste. The first is that this motion calls for the presentation of the results of the Action Plan on the Prevention of Food Waste, Malbaratament. Right, but they're not plastic. And then there is also talk of setting up a working group to deal with improving the management of packaging waste and, above all, its financing. That's right, too. Much is being said about this, and it is not clear what interests us more, whether to continue with the improvement of selective collection or to introduce the deposit and return system, or both. Therefore, it is a topic that is also interesting to come out. And above all, we are talking about the future waste law, which is the bulk of the motion. I anticipate that we will support this motion. It is clear that we are producing an indecent amount of waste, apart from the fact that we are stagnant in the recycling percentage. One very serious aspect that is important to highlight is that plastic waste is increasing in the environment, and worryingly in the marine environment, and the only solution we have in our hands is to reduce plastics where we do not want them to be, increasing collection, recycling and reducing the use of plastics. From Citizens, we have been in a very clear position for years: in favour of banning single-use plastics, we are about to improve efficiency in selective collection, and in general, we are about to apply the concept of circular economy. But you have to go a little further. In addition to prohibiting, which is essential in some cases, alternatives must be actively promoted: ensuring that alternative materials are safe and safe for health, especially additives in plastics. If we don't, if we don't guarantee it, we'll fail. We also have to ensure that the alternative is economically viable, because if it is not viable, we will fail. And we also need to ensure that citizens are well received with awareness and pedagogy: if we do not do so, we will also fail. In this sense, a 5.0 recycling initiative has been very positive to me, to which has been added the Rovira i Virgili of Tarragona and is also being done in the UPC, in Igualada, in Granollers and in the region of Pla de l'Estany. They are smart bins that recognize you the type of packaging, recognize the user, even give you some points that you can then change for bus or train tickets, or environmental projects. This initiative affects the younger population, which must be involved. In short, we need a waste law. Gentlemen of the Government – I don't see any of them, but I'm addressing them – they have a lot of work to do. They already present a waste bill that includes everything we're talking about here and much more. They have a specific text and we can all study and make improvements. Are we interested in applying a container storage and return system? In what cases are we interested and in what cases are we not interested? The 2018 Cadaquès Test of Deposit and ReturnIs it really extrapolable to the rest of Catalonia? There are a lot of doubts about this. Should rates be applied to the production of packaging? What would be the purpose of this collection? Are the alternative materials offered by many companies viable? How do we reduce the use of plastic? What do we do with plastic that is not packaging? How do we control plastic additives? And how do we eliminate the plastic we already have in the natural environment, and in the marine environment? Because we have it there and it's not a small thing. A waste law has to answer all these questions. I already want to see that bill on the table, ask for appearances, listen to experts, open a debate and make amendments: the normal thing when a bill is introduced. According to this motion, in the first half of 2020, that is to say, four days from now, this government has to submit a bill: they have committed themselves. It is therefore a very important compromise. Will this government continue to work on this waste issue? Or would you prefer to continue to press on to existing legality and let another legislature pass? For the sake of the Catalans, for the sake of the environment, take this law forward – although I do not see it very clearly that they take it out – and leave it to non-existent republics, illegal referendums, and now present this bill. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.69.0	[[Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of MP Mònica Palacín, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.207.0	[[Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs, well, Catalonia has already begun the debate, the debate for a future law of prevention and management of waste, and the efficient use of resources, precisely, to advance towards a circular economy based on sustainability, the net production and the expanded responsibility of the producer and to meet the objective of zero waste.]] [[We understand that it is about establishing transition mechanisms for a model of production and consumption that results in the exploitation of natural resources, and what is more important: to arrive at a different paradigm, which is to re-transform these residues into which it can be a raw material for industry and agriculture.]] [[The legislation on waste prevention directly links it to the entire life cycle of the product, we understand that under the umbrella of this expanded responsibility of the producer, which is one of the basic and operational pillars of the European Union's environmental policy, this expanded responsibility of the producer, who must be responsible for the management of the products that place the market throughout its life cycle – we fully coincide with the Member of Parliament Ferro.]] [[A conversion of the production system to a net production, and above all to avoid passing the costs on to society, which already has many efforts, and also, to a certain extent, to the public administration. Here, put in value – a lot – the work of the assemblies, of the municipal governments, who make an effort to try to make it manage waste the best way and many times with the lack of necessary resources.]] [[Therefore, we need a new law that makes it possible to apply net production and eco-disseny criteria, marketing and waste management criteria, and environmental tax measures. All these measures, on the axes in which the sale and distribution of the elements of a sun is regulated...; to establish taxes on products of a sun or products of a lasting short time that arise in the market; to reduce the toxicity of consumer products – so this is also an important element, and so we are very much in agreement with the proposals made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Units to advance –; to promote re-useability, re-useability, sale in bulk..., all those systems that are in the abst, between them also the system of distribution and return for the packaging of beets to be able to complete the recycling of quality and end up with the abandonment of these objects to the natural environment, as well as the media, etc. And then, also evaluate the deposit or repurchase system to increase the selective collection of certain materials that could be potentially reused or prepared for reuse, such as, therefore, bulky, WEEE, textile, etc.]] [[With regard to food malaise, the second point of the proposer is to put into value the interdepartmental work of the different departments dealing with this aspect. Not just the end of the chain, as has been the case so far in the social aspect of the distribution criteria of surplus food, but the origins; the reason why we have this excess of food production; its distribution, and the inequalities above all, which we believe to be a sufficiently important thing, of which is the difference between production and market price, and this is an important problem to tackle this issue of malarrangement.]] [[Our reviews, therefore, have been accepted, all three. We thank Congressman Ferro for his attitude towards this young man and the dialogue we have maintained. We believe that it is important to add to the subject of the European directive; then, to say that yes, the Environment Commission must come to explain, therefore, the plan of malarrangement, and then – important – the creation of the working group in order to be able to deal with the better management of residues in the face of this proposed new law.]] [[We believe that the law that created Catalonia was innovative. It is therefore necessary to achieve a new law that adapts to our challenges, that seeks sustainability, that tackles climate change and solves it and guarantees the well-being of people and the natural environment.]] [[A grace also, and recognition, to the ecological entities and movements that work, provide their human and professional resources, to demand – as they must do – that we achieve the best of laws.]] [[Thank you.]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.208.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congressman Narcis Clara, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.70.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, of course, as Mr Ferro has said, the consequences of climate change are many, and this is one, now, I shall only refer to the content of this motion. The main and basic strategy in the management of residues is based on the European hierarchy on this question, which consists in the ordering of the various elements that make up it. This approach establishes, in order of preference, prevention, minimization, reuse, recycling, energy recovery and finally the abocator. Of this design are the policies to be implemented. The core of the papers we have presented to this House refers to adapting Catalan legislation to the nine European directives on plastic waste, and in particular to Directive 2019/904 of 5 June this year, which has certainly not yet been transposed at state level. This rule forms part of the European strategy to promote more sustainable materials, while improving the capacities for reuse, repair and recycling. This directive is a European directive, binding the States of the Union to fulfil the objectives set out above, although it leaves the competent authorities with the decision to sort out the form and means to achieve it. In this way they create mechanisms that tend to homogenize environmental policies and create the right conditions to compare the different policies implemented, and thus contribute to improving our knowledge of the system. As a result, the role played by the European Union in modernising and improving environmental policies is necessary and uplifting. As this directive is the core of our reviews – and it has already been said that it was very important for some other group – I will make a brief summary that I believe can be used by all the citizens who are listening to us. In Article 4 of this Directive, it can be seen that the European Union has imposed itself as an objective that in the next seven years there must be a measurable quantitative reduction in the consumption of plastic products from one used in comparison with 2022. The set of affected products ranges from droplets of packaging to packaging intended for immediate consumption of food..., or which are normally consumed in the same packaging. In order to go beyond the reduction, Article 5 states that the Member States of the European Union shall prohibit the introduction into the market of certain plastic products from a use, such as now covered, dishes and various types of expanded polystyrene packaging. Article 9 introduces measures on selective collection for recycling which, among others, require a collection of at least 77_per_cent by 2025 of certain plastic products and 90_per_cent by two years. Article 8 refers to the extended responsibility of producers in relation to certain single-use plastic products and places Member States to old age because producers of these plastic products pay the costs associated with certain expenses. As a result, reduction, prohibition, recycling and expanded responsibility are part of the agenda that can be implemented and put back on the agenda, to which we would welcome the fact that our papers have been accepted, which we recognise to the proposing group. So I say, I also say that we will vote in favour of the papers presented for the Socialist Party and Units for Progress, as our concern for public salvation is that it must be very important in the impact of these policies. A complementary theme is the deposit, return and return system. There are countries that apply it and others that do not; there are arguments for and against it. It is for this reason that our group subscribes to the request made by the Councillor to create a working group on the better management of packaging waste and its financing in the framework of the circular economy. Finally I would like to add a note to the comment made by Councilman Calvet that we are not in the cosmic void in the waste management. In fact, we are rotating like many other European regions in a very well-defined and stable orbit, given that we have well-defined objectives and a very reliable strategy to achieve them. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, in order to fix its position, has the word the deputy Natalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.72.0	Good morning again, deputies, deputies. I don't know if in a cosmic void, but what's certain is that Mr. Damià Calvet isn't here when we talk about the issues that affect his advice: he's a young man, and he doesn't care about what he's talking about. We want to make reference to some of the conclusions... – well, from the start we will give support to the movement –, to some of the conclusions that came to Residu Zero= Zero Incineration, on November 10, 2018, which was celebrated in Barcelona driven by the Catalan Strategy of Residu Zero. The main objectives of that day were to end up with a plan of containment of the incinerators, an abandonment of the residue cream to the cement factories and an approval of the Catalan law of zero residue. This young man, at least, places one of these objects. We want to emphasize that in Catalonia the economic powers – and it was also one of the conclusions of this day – and the administrations continue to drive a fallen model of production based on obsolescence, in the downfall, and growth without limits of the use of natural resources and of regeneration and the generation of residues and emissions. This model is based on a lack of political will and interest, an inability of institutional action to build a new social and production model taking into account the biophysical limits of nature, and a real inability to preserve and restore the common natural benefits. While maintaining this model, any concept that goes into prevention logic, climate change mitigation, circular economy, green economy, concepts that we agree with, while not changing this model, all those agents who perpetuate this model will simply be making an act of hypocrisy. We also place on the table the perillosity and toxicity of the components produced and emitted for incineration. And so we would like, and that is why we insist, that there be broad consensus, we insist again, on implementing an immediate moratorium on incinerators. It is urgent that we be asked for social movements linked to health and linked to the environment. We are at your side, we do not want to perpetuate the areas of sacrifice, the areas that mean an apartheid of salvation for what it does to the atmospheric contaminants, for what it does to the air that we breathe. Therefore, we must end this model of consumerism and advance the right to salvation to the economic interests that are perpetuated also with the support of this government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally it is the return of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party to Catalonia. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] From the escó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.74.0	Thank you, Vice President. Three ideas in relation to this motion on plastic residue that was the fundamental object of the inquiry. First, we fully share the concern about the impact of plastic residues on the environment and, therefore, we also share the need to legislate in this matter in order to move towards the objective set out in the European Union directive, which is to reduce the presence of plastic residues in the environment. And this is actually the second idea, but it is the second idea that I think I need to specify: what is established from the European Union is not a total and absolute prohibition, which is where the lefts like the environment policy like, is to impose taxes – we see it with the previous motion – or it is to ban, which is what is done in this young man. We already agree to ban all those plastic materials that have recognized, viable, existing and present alternatives on the market, and therefore we have absolutely no problem in voting in favour of that distance that says that they are to ban the plastic materials of a sun used, such as spoons, vases, etc., because there are actually alternatives. But there are no others in which alternatives are not yet sufficiently developed and, therefore, to ban these plastics when there are no alternatives developed leads us to a failure of the same legislation. I believe that the paradigm is in the same motion, because it is clearly explained in paragraph 1.b, the prohibition of the distribution and sale of products containing microplastics and nanoplastics is said to be and to realize a timetable in which it is progressively substituted for others that do not contain harmful products. This is the reverse: the first is the calendar to reduce and look for alternatives and, when we have alternatives, then, it is forbidden, but not the other way around. Therefore, we will give support to the thick of the young man, but we will not do so with regard to distance b, c and d from point 1, because we understand that they are not real.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.75.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the deputy Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.76.0	Thank you very much, President. Members and Members, first of all, thank all the groups with whom we have been able to deal or have been able to accept items for this week's debate. There is a debate, which now was pointed out by the deputy of the PP, who also pointed out the company Francisco, of Ciutadans, that I think he is right in what he is saying and that he may be in the transaction, precisely in order to be a transaction in which we have to agree as we build it, it is not very clear: there are elements of a_sol that do not have a viable alternative of substitution and this means that you will have to think about what role the Catalonian Generality will have to play at the time of promoting policies of research and development in ecodisseny, in substitution, in materials, etcetera, and which calendars we can assume. It's true, this debate is there. We have certainly wanted to focus on measures which we consider to be concrete but which are already being given both in the European directives and in some autonomous communities, such as the prohibition of single-sun plastics, elements which have a viable alternative, because we understand that if the new law of residues does not incorporate this, it will be born out of date directly and will be born out of line with the European directives. What's more, just tell the socialist company that we also celebrate that today the dictator is unearthed, but to see when we can celebrate together and folds that the Succession Law of the Head of State of 1947 has been unearthed, and this country can have the debate it deserves. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.77.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Long break. Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.78.0	Yes; for the separate vote of points 1.b, c and d, which may be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.79.0	1.b, 1.c, 1.d, together, huh? [[Pause.]] Any more separate petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] All right. Before going to the vote, I inform you that a change of order has been requested in the order of the day this late and that the motion appearing as item 15 of the order of the day may be substantial after number 16. Therefore, they would invest points 15 and 16, the two motions, and we would do 16 first and then 15. Okay? [[Pause.]] Let us then proceed to the vote. We will vote on points 1.b, 1.c and 1.d first, and after the rest of the vote. Start voting points 1.b, 1.c and 1.d. These points have been approved by 126 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved: 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the coverage of the public health service in rural areas]] [[302-00144/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the coverage of the public health service in rural areas, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To present it, the honourable Member has the word Escarp. [[Long break.]] One moment, Congresswoman, that the deputies and deputies who want to leave the hemicicle had just come out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.80.0	Thank you, President, may I? Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.81.0	When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.82.0	Thank you, President. It will advise, Members, Members, when we presented this inquiry, what we said to them was: do not forget the role that the basic public services, and, in this case, the public health service, have in the countryside and in the mountain areas above all as elements or as factors of cohesion, territorial balance and struggle against depopulation; we will never build on what we say about a new rurality unless we know that education and health are present in what we have defined as social infrastructure. To hear us: without schools and consulting, it will be very difficult. Because we talk about salvation. And when we talk about salvation, we always talk about a public system of quality. Sometimes we fill our mouths with excellence, but this system fails territorial equity. And territorial equity means this right to be treated the same, viscous where viscous. And here I leave an incis, in this right to be treated the same. Because these days we have heard many times the counselor say that our system of salvation treats everyone as well. I, Counselor, believe that a public and universal system has the duty to treat everyone equally. And so, this insistence I don't know if it's or because it recognizes that there are territorial inequities and so we don't recognize everyone or we can't treat everyone the same, or because you think that within the system there are differences or that someone makes differences between patients, which I don't even know about. Go on, it's a comment I don't want to repeat. But I told him that the right to be treated the same, vis-à-vis where, therefore, equity, is not complete, and is not complete in rural areas and in mountain areas. For this reason, the young person proposes concrete measures to facilitate better attention to the whole territory, and above all because this vague attention accompanied by the presence of professionals who may be in the territory. It has been a long time since the health system, touched by the retail, by the abuse of the professional, by the non-return of the lost services, had the primary attention as the great harmed. And this has still been more evident in rural areas. In the background, do we often think that if the services that can respond to the growth of aging, the chronicity and the new social and health needs are centered in the more urban areas, as we want or as we think it will be in rural areas and high mountain areas the people who live there? The House has had discussions on the part of different groups, both from groups supporting the Government and from the Ciutadans Group. Most of the papers we've incorporated and processed, and I think we've made an effort, that it's nice, to put forward concrete proposals to improve health care, which in the background is what we've been looking for. We sought to incorporate health planning into the overall planning of the Interdepartmental Commission on Rural Depopulation, or the department developed concrete measures to improve accessibility to the service, with timetables and resources. It is proposed that it is determined as priorities the places of family medicine and specialists that are difficult to cover, and this means – there is an incorporation with the dedicated negotiations and we are absolutely in agreement – flexibility in salaries; contracts as long as possible, I would say not less than a year; access to specific training plans with state in care centres. The motion also provides that we take advantage of telemedicine mechanisms or technology mechanisms, from new communication systems, for a band to end the loneliness in the decision making of professionals, that have mechanisms to counteract their own diagnosis, but also tools that offer the interhospital relationship between professionals and make the system more accessible to the patients, and above all we avoid them going up and down, and look for mechanisms that build up healthcare to the people; proximity. In this sense, proposing that specialists can move certain days to give coverage from the vicinity, therefore, is one of the proposals that there is. What the High Pirinius has a Salvation delegation, which is the only way and they are – they think – discriminated against in this sense. We have also incorporated a Ciutadans message about prevention and action to fight against the damage that health personnel can suffer. It's more generic, but it's a topic that's come out. We haven't spoken in commissions, either. We think it's about the table, unfortunately, and that we have to take into account when we talk about healthcare. I think it's good that we can come to an agreement for the better care of the people of the rural environment and above all that we don't forget that the basic public service and the health service are an element of struggle against depopulation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.83.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, it has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the deputy Mrs Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.84.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, deputies, deputies. I believe that all the parliamentary groups that we actually make political are aware that we live in a country that is diverse from many quarters. One of them is the heterogeneous territory we have and the diversity of reptes that comprise all these socio-economic, geopolitical and democratic realities. In Mrs Vergés' speech, it was also clear that not only are parliamentary groups aware and sensitive, but that the Health Department and the Government are working together to build a long-term sustainable system and adapt to this territorial complexity. And the key to governing this system is fairness. And that is why it is essential that I focus on rural areas, that we worry about this and work in a coordinated way with the municipalities and the rest of the institutions of the territory to make it possible. So as we also have to take into account the spectacular demographic changes that we are living in, not just because our population has grown, which is obvious, but because this is more diverse and is patenting an envelope, characteristic, moreover, made worse in rural areas. Therefore, the health care system is no longer merely to be used to save lives. The great challenge today is the quality of life in aging and the attention of chronicity, taking into account the whole territory, the whole population, and paying special attention to the most fragile population. Adapting our system of salvation to the new realities, also to the territorial one, is essential, therefore, in order to ensure that our system continues to be universal, public, equitable and also sustainable, tasks that make it one of the best in the world. The Health Department is doing it, but it's important that we all look the same way, which is why we value this young man very positively. Some actions that the government is developing in this sense and that I want to highlight are the model change in order to be able to enhance the new forms of work and the new roles of professionals, such as empowering the role of the infirmary, which the department has done from the Decree of credence of nursing prescription, which the council also explained to us in their appearance. As the big paradigm shift, stop talking about retirement repositioning and start doing it about what types of professionals we need now in the future. It is important to trust the local professionals and retain the talent of the residents. I can give you an answer to a big question. How can we give more to the time worked in the rural area of these professionals, an issue that concerns us and what is intended to give response from one of the Forum's working groups. Another important point of the motion is the use of ICTs. It is necessary to take advantage of all these new ways and to make the most of it in order to be able to combat the isolation of the professionals and professionals of the rural world. Both from our parliamentary group and from the department, we believe that the new technologies must be the great allies in all these transformations. It is important, however, to stress that we do not want to replace face care, but to complement it and facilitate it, since working in the rural environment does not mean working alongside if forms are part of an active health network. Alliances between professionals and hospitals, which Mrs Escarp also referred to, and which Mrs Vergés explained to us the other day: different experiences that already existed, such as the Hospital Arnau de Vilanova and the Vall d'Hebron, some experiences that are considered very important. Finally, I would like to thank MP Assumpta Escarp for her willingness to accept most of the papers presented, for which I have already advanced that we will vote in favour of the motion. And we will also vote in favour, as it cannot be in any other way, of the message presented by Ciutadans. Finally, I would like to say that so much more important is politics and less partyism, because it is when we really resolve the challenges of citizenship and regain our trust. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of MP Imma Gallardo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.86.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, today we find ourselves with this motion on the coverage of the public health service in the rural area, and from the outset I would like to thank the group proposing that we discuss in this Chamber the coverage of our country's public health services in this area, in the rural area. From Juntos per Catalunya we are very much in agreement with the background of the motion, and also with the diagnosis made by the Member of Parliament Escarp in her presentation. In fact, the same Vergés councillor was also there when she responded to his inquiry. But I also have to say that, despite the difficulties of all kinds and all that can be reviewed and improved, it is precisely in this rural area that some of the proposals that are being made in this young man have already been implemented. From the need to the fact. And that's why from this rostrum I want to make a recognizance of the good beginnings that are held by the health professionals, concretely from the eve of the High Pyrenees and Aran, and that are used as a model for other territories. A few comments about the young man. A lot of agreement on the first two points. In fact, the government has been working for a few months. The country-live project, with this cross-cutting and cross-departmental vision so necessary, has set itself as a priority to tackle and reverse the difficult problem of depopulation, ageing and impoverishment suffered by some regions of our country. Much also agreed that in order to be able to help respond to current and future health challenges, health planning should be incorporated into the overall planning of the Government. But this also means the communication networks, both telecommunications networks – in fact, the CAPs were the first buildings to have optical fiber – as the journeys. I, out there! Mrs Escarp, on my territory we find ourselves with the eix Pirinenc, the Pirenaic axis, currently still the competence of the Ministry of Development, which leaves much to be desired, with pending actions, widely claimed, as the better of the national 230 or the national 260 at its pace for the comarques of the High Pirineu, widely claimed so many here as of our own parliamentary groups to Congress and the Senate, and for the moment there is not so much as a study for its conditioning. Therefore, the place that we work together to achieve these better journeys that are so necessary for the inhabitants of these regions, is what the government is that it is competent to do. We also share that we need to reorganize the plants and see the retirements to cover them, but we also certainly need to rethink some of the things in the system. Maybe the nurse can do a lot more than she does, because she's already capable of doing more. We have the best trained nurses in Europe. Completely agree on the subject of introducing certain determinants to cover some priority places. There are already some examples of education. It would be a question of trying to adapt them to salvation. But the same model of pediatrics of the Pyrenees, with the teaching integrated into the same system of the Hospital Sant Joan de Deu and self-management with hourly and training flexibility, is a differential model that has allowed to guarantee coverage in a territory like the Pyrenees. A lot of agreement also that it should continue to advance in the use of telemedicine – said Congresswoman Driuech. It's the future. Just remember that there have already been significant breakthroughs in this field, such as the pilot project "Hello to Pallar Hospital", this application that allows the follow-up of some chronic diseases, and that avoids displacement, as was already the case with the same Councillor Vergés in the inquiry. We agree that the communication and interrelationship mechanisms between professionals and care centres need to be improved to avoid unnecessary displacements, or that it is appropriate to portray the figure of the rural methge or methgessa and to facilitate even more that the RIMs do a part of the rotations in the rural area. But not only in family and community medicine, but also in pediatrics and the rest of the specialities, since there are hospitals that also suffer from this problem. There is also a great deal of agreement to establish new mechanisms for collaboration between hospital referral centres and care centres, so long as the specialists are out of place for certain days. But that's what's already going on in the hospitals of Pirinius, Viella, Tremp, His Urgell and Puigcerdà. Sometimes with difficulty to find specialists, but this can be a good model for other ages. For what it does at the point of establishing a delegation of Health and Management of the CatHello to the High Pyrenees, welcome continue. But I also take advantage of this to make a claim at the territorial level, and as long as we want them, all the territorial delegations that we lack in Upper Pirinius and Aran, but also adapted to the reality of the territory and adjusted to the presuppositional reality. To end, therefore, from Juntes to Catalonia we make a clear bet to facilitate much more the mobility of users and optimize resources in the rural area, but also facilitating the work of the professionals. It is also very important that the reality of every age is present. I only appreciate the predisposition and the good work with the members of Escarp and Driuech to get to the agreements and transactions. And our vote will be in favour of all points. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.87.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Javier Rivas has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.88.0	Thank you, President. I coincided a couple of months ago with a rural doctor who had recently retired. He wanted to talk and I always appreciate..., I want to listen, don't I? He was telling me his work life, not the one that gives you..., the list that gives you social security with an electronic DNI, but he was telling me his life with a back leather case that his father, also a doctor, had given him when he finished his career and started working. He told me that his first destination was in a mountain region and that on the loins of a Citroën Dos Caballos ran through the cold winter roads and the dusty summer roads. He told me that, armed simply with a stethoscope, a voltage meter and a totum revolutum of drugs, he also attended a delivery that sewed a cut, that diagnosed pneumonia. He told me smiling that he drew attention to the beginning of his exercise... because most of his patients had a little high hematites; he immediately understood that it was due to height, didn't he? the body adapts. Our young man, then, doctor also adapted to his new job, to professional loneliness, to kilometers, to the lack of schedules, to the limitation of means, to sometimes return with a chicken shaking in the car because some grateful patient had insisted on giving it to him, to exercise as a psychologist without having the specialty, to know his patients not only by his name, but also by his voice when they called him on the phone, to the looks of hope that turned to the unison when he entered a house and someone said: "The doctor has arrived. From this rostrum, thank you, thank you very much, thank you to all the rural doctors, those who have been, those who are and those who will be; the rural world owes you a great deal. [[Greetings.]] More than once I have heard my colleague Jorge Soler, from this very rostrum, say that medicine is either human or it will not be medicine. Surely this intervention should have been done by him, who is indeed a doctor, but, well, as I am of the origin and destination of the rural world, he considered and insisted that I do so. It's been very easy for me to do it. I can do an intervention from the heart because I know I have a guarantee behind that the brain is working and that intelligence governs this party and this dynamic. He is a great companion, a little in this dynamic, in this preaching that Claude Bernard was saying to his students, isn't he? , its medical students, "sometimes cure, often relieve, always accompany, which characterizes both Congressman Soler and rural doctors. [[Greetings.]] But now we are no longer in the model of the Renaissance man who touched all the sticks; we are in a society of the twenty-first century and, therefore, in a medicine of the twenty-first century that needs to be technified: we have moved from Citroën Dos Caballos to the dispensaries, to the CAP and to the hospital of first, second and third level, and we must continue to evolve in this line, because the challenge is to respond to an entire population that has the right to have the same assistance as any other citizen. You will notice that I have not named the doctor in my account, because there are many names. But in this case, the one I personally know, the one who guided me through this intervention, I do have to tell you that he retired high in hematites because he lived his whole life in height. He never became the famous Doctor House, but he was very dear to all his neighbors. He told me that a rural doctor humanly receives much more than he gives; the rest of the problems have a solution. And here, at sea level, without difficulty for the transport of hemoglobin, it is our task and our responsibility that we solve these problems. I am heartened that all groups have been able to agree on a motion that I believe is positive. I think that's the way. And we will, of course, vote in favour of it in the hope that our rural world, which is currently at the table of operations, will not go to the autopsy table, but that we will all be able to get it up to the floor. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.89.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, in the first place, the deputy Mrs Concepción Abelán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.90.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, we face a growing process of depopulation of rural areas, where 75_per_cent of Catalan municipalities are located, and the situation worsens day by day. Poor communication, isolation, degraded services, harsh climatic conditions and public benefits are anaemic in rural areas compared to more populated municipalities, greatly complicate the lives of our citizens in rural areas, gradually diminishing the number of neighbours living in the most remote regions, and multiplying the associated problems. And one of these essential services is primary care. Two years ago the Generalitat formed a working group composed of different councils and has been unable to develop or implement measures to curb this bleeding. And this is what puts on the table again is this government's inoperability and laxity. The problem is the policies that have been implemented all these years, ten years of antisocial cuts, which have led Catalan health to be the fourth worst health, by the tail, of the entire state. This is reflected in the report of the Federation of Associations for the Defense of Public Health. And this situation is enormously worsening in rural areas. Catalonia is one of the communities where professionals who want to work primary care, especially in rural areas, are scarce. Rural medicine today is not an attractive job option for health professionals. Job insecurity, lack of incentives and effective continuing training also do not contribute to this. The medical places for primary care have long been empty, not in the major hospitals nor in Barcelona, but beyond the metropolitan area the problems begin; the structural lack is exacerbated in rural environments, and if the budgetary priority of primary care is not addressed urgently, the health of the Catalan rural area will enter the ICU. In 2018 the occupation service of the College of Physicians of Barcelona managed 1,357 job offers: three_of_each_four corresponded to places available in the area of Barcelona, 23_per_cent were from other regions of Catalonia, and of that 23_per_cent, only 40_per_cent of them were covered. The cuts have greatly affected those who take care of us from the health system and have harmed the attention of all citizens; therefore, we must put an end to the precariousness, recover those who have had to go out to work and develop continuous training plans that respond to the interests of professionals and of all citizens above commercial criteria. Every euro that the Catalan governments have withdrawn from the health budget that ends in privatized health is a stab wound in the back to health in the villages. People are not profitable for private operators, and even you who are in the government understand that. We have few resources for health and above with a huge diversion to privatized, increasingly expensive and inefficient health, a model that is more focused on the hospital and medication rather than a personalized, continuous, preventive and health promoter care. In these empty territories the effort in a dignified, sufficient and quality primary care is fundamental, because well cared for and equipped in personnel and means will be able to work with minimal efficiency. The Association Drets Sexuals i Reproductives shows that in fifteen regions no health centre has reported an abortion and that, in order to do so, almost five hundred women have had to travel to another territory. And it's government data. This situation, combined with demographic changes such as ageing, increasing chronicity and complexities in pathologies, increases dysfunction and worsens the quality of care of the system in rural reality. It is these cuts in public services with an increasingly ageing population and further away from hospitals where the effect is especially cruel. We will vote in favour of this motion, but to the comrades of the PSC : it is incomprehensible that while you are asking for more and better health service here, we would have a demand from the government of Pedro Sánchez last summer with cuts in health to all the autonomous communities. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Cree constitute, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.92.0	Thank you, President. To intervene from the escó. We wanted to show minimally our position in relation to this motion, which will be a generally favourable position. We think that there are interesting, very interesting and necessary issues that are moving into this: the interdepartmental committee, global planning, strengthening primary and community care, among other issues. But, said that, too, we don't want to go through the value of this without referring to it as being more concrete; more concrete because, even though the same young lady speaks of concrete, then, in this one, we can't find it. Also part of this realization: the need to fix presuppositional endowment. We can have a very complete motion as this can be, but if it is not accompanied by a presuppositional endowment, it will hardly come true. And in the third place, or in the last place, also to value in a global way... – and we have heard it many times already explain in relation to this – we may even have more presuppositional endowment than, if we maintain the model of management of public health, which is in good measure private management, we do not have a guarantee that with more resources, with more presuppositional endowment we will end up improving the public health service. And this is basically given because maintaining this private management in part of the public health system causes confusion of interests, causes a model of revolving doors, a model of corruption facilitation, and there is also a transfer of public resources to private resources, or more than private resources, private interests, because the head and the fi that manages with private interest and with no desire to work is the maximum benefit. Even so, as we have begun, it is clear that the general feeling in relation to this young man is positive.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.93.0	Thank you, Congressman. And on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia has the word Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.94.0	Thank you, President. Catalonia is a different society. And this statement serves to speak of many things; also to speak from the territorial point of view. And Catalonia is a diverse territory, and it is very difficult, not to say practically impossible, that all the people we live in Catalonia have access to exactly the same services, because it is obvious that where there is more population, surely, there is much more service than where there are fewer people. So what forces public administrations to do is to try to avoid any problems of inequality and that, therefore, the citizens of Catalonia, viscous to where they are, have access to the same public services, as well as the difficulties that this entails. And this motion deals with this aspect in relation to health services. Therefore, we are celebrating that there is an extraordinaryly broad consensus to provide those territories that are less populated in Catalonia with quality, dignified health services that allow us to fight a little more against rural depopulation. I have only a small objection to the motion, which will not be a separate vote, but I do want to make reference to it, and it is that the motion states that the Alt Pirineu and the Aran is the only old age that has no management; having management, the health region has management, shared at these times with the Lands of Lleida. But since he quotes the Veguerias, let's say that the only Vegueria that he does not have, not of management, but of health region, is the Penedès. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.95.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the new word the deputy Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.96.0	Thank you, President. To thank all the interventions: the intervention of the deputy of Ciutadans, an intervention made from the heart and from the knowledge; the interventions also of the deputy Najat and of the deputy Gallardo... That, miri, deputy Gallardo, yes I will make a comment with respect to the infrastructures road and the eix Pirinenc : that, with as many assumptions as they have agreed, maybe this could already have been agreed. But, well, anyway, I agree with you that we need to work together. It's true that the young man is an ample young man, but it's also true that we've been able to reach, I think, agreements that somehow do help promote these professional roles, and also value the role of the new technologies and deepen many of the things that are being done. She knows I'm not looking for anything to recognize that there are a lot of things going on, and in this sense I think it's right to do it, among other things, to gain that value, too, right? , when we die public, universal, and also this value of equity. I, if I may, today – I don't usually do that – will make a personal reference to this Faristol. And I will do it today because it reminds me of a person who is from the countryside, my avi, a page, a man murdered by the Francoism, and who today I do want, since the dictator is out and we have managed to exhume his cadaver, know and dedicate an act of dignity, an act of justice, an act of memory – I have a lot for them – and an act of reparation. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.97.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, shall we vote for this young man? Is there no separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Don't you? So let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This motion, the motion following the question to the Government on the coverage of the public health service in rural areas, has been approved unanimously: 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] We suspend the session until two-quarters of the late four. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you; yes. The warning, therefore... excuse me, Members, Members: the warning that, since Parliament's workers also wanted to participate in the minute of silence, we would make a minute of silence in the record of the victims of this week's waiters, at the door of Parliament, right now, huh? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.98.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. [[The president of the SEGA.]] Excuse me... [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into coexistence, freedom and security]] [[302-00147/12]] Let's resume the session with the seven-point order of the day, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into coexistence, freedom and security. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.99.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, deputies and deputies. Well, yesterday we saw in this Parliament an image that, in my opinion, reflects better than any other the degradation that nationalism has inflicted on Catalonia, it has inflicted on the public debate in Catalonia and, ultimately, on the whole of Catalan society: when Mr Torra begged the forgiveness of the UPC and, for this, he did not hesitate to put the Mossos d'Esquadra at the feet of the horses after his performance last week in front of the riots of extreme violence that took place in the streets of Barcelona and other populations of Catalonia. And here is the great drama of Catalonia, of today's Catalonia; the great drama of today's Catalonia, it is not that we have four deputies of a radical anti-system party, which justifies and has among its youth a group that, to what it is dedicated is, among other things, to smash the headquarters of other political parties, to point out, to paint the houses of judges and prosecutors, remembering bad times of our history. The real problem of Catalonia; the real drama of Catalonia is that we have a president of the Generalitat who, far from facing the violent, far from facing those who are jealous of the violent in the Parliament of Catalonia, is also jealous of the violent and also justifies his claim to degrade the image of our police, in this case of the Mossos de Escquadra. But, of course, also the National Police and the Civil Guard. Look, Mr Torra and his Government, in short, although Mr Torra is not here, I am telling you this because I am sure that the message will reach you. The National Police, the Mossos d'Esquadra and the Civil Guard are in Catalonia, they are on this land to protect our rights and freedoms, not for anything else. Therefore, it is an enormous irresponsibility not to put all the emphasis on defending your action, which I think we can say without fear of mistaking us that was exemplary. Yes, indeed, I believe that the performance of the Mossos d'Esquadra was exemplary, and that of the National Police. It was exemplary the performance of all the bodies and security forces of the state, in the face of an access of extreme violence that took place in Catalonia last week and, especially, in the city of Barcelona. Indeed, yesterday I had the feeling, in this Parliament, that I was experiencing an episode of dantesque degradation of the political life of our community, because here there was a virtually unanimous, between Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana, the CUP, and also the Commons, the force represented by Podemos in Catalonia, in which it was necessary to criminalize the bodies and security forces of the State for their reaction to the violent events, the riots that took place in Barcelona last week. Well, I think it has to be the opposite. He said earlier that the actions of the Mosses and the National Police had been exemplary, and I would even dare to say that, on many occasions, far above, or on some occasions, far above, from the point of view of the exhibition of their physical integrity, of their own life, in order to defend, precisely, our rights and freedoms. [[Greetings.]] Mr Torra, gentlemen of the government, I believe that Catalans of good, regardless of our ideology, let us be liberal, progressive, conservative, constitutionalist, independent, whatever our ideology, we have the right to live in peace on our land; we have the right to exercise our rights and our freedoms normally; to take our children to school; a trader to open his premises without fear of their window pouring out; the glasses of his shop; we have the right to take our elders to the doctor. In short, taxi drivers have the right to exercise their profession freely and we do not have to be subjected to the coercion and violence of a group of totalitarians who, what they claim to be imposing their project by force. By force, burning roads, burning, setting Barcelona on fire, making barricades and, ultimately, generating the impossibility of a peaceful coexistence. There is no right to what our agents, from Mossos d'Esquadra, National Police and Civil Guard have had to suffer these days in Barcelona. And I want to remind you that there is an officer of the National Police still hospitalized, who has been very serious: Ivan, from Vigo, who came from Vigo to defend Catalonia, democracy and the rights and freedoms of all Catalans. [[Greetings.]] From here, all our support and all our thanks. Look, the last thing I wanted to say is that there has been an image of these days, despite how terrible everything has been, that I liked and I think that my whole group liked and surely the groups of the PSC and the People's Party also; that it has been the embrace between mossos d'ésquadra, between agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra and the National Police. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I think it reflects the desire, the will of many Catalans to reconcile us. Now, reconciliation will hardly come from those who flaunt the violent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.100.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.101.0	...and demanding the expulsion of the Civil Guard and the National Police of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.102.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next and taking into account that no submissions have been submitted, we open a turn of interventions to fix the position of the groups. And in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Ferran Pedret. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.103.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, ended his intervention, Mr Martín Blanco, speaking of reconciliation. And I know you don't see the case, I ask the president not to call me on the question, but I would like to make a brief reference to this; because what we have seen today, for a lot of people who don't see it that way, is a necessary step for reconciliation. The dictator of his mausoleum has been arrested and I believe that today, there are many people who feel relieved; that they feel that, somehow, it is claimed to them or to their relatives. And today I can't help but hold to the faces and names of many companies and many companies, that would have wanted to see at this moment, that they would feel proud and excited, that they would feel claimed and claimed and that they couldn't see. And I can't help but keep all those people who are still waiting to find their family members and be able to take them in like lime. And I think I should thank all the people, the relatives of the victims, the memorialist associations, all the work they've done, over so many years, to get these themes so absolutely necessary around the historical memory. And the work we have to do. [[Greetings.]] But well, Mr. Martin Blanco said that he needed to move forward in reconciliation, and I agree: I think it is very necessary. And I think that at this political moment, in which I believe that we have seen, I think, a great deal of reflection for the images that have been produced in the past week, but also for all the political events that have occurred in the last few months, I would say even in the last two years, I think that it is a good time to try to begin to lay the foundations for a minimum replenishment of the contact between different political and social spaces that have been seen, progressively, each time longer. And this does not help, it does not contribute in absolute terms, nor does the mutual qualification of fascists and totalitarians who sometimes entangle themselves as accusers, between the different parliamentary benches and outside, in the debate on social networks, in the public debate; first, because it does not contribute to a good analysis of the political and social reality of the country and, second, because it does not contribute in any way to finding a solution that is minimally acceptable to the vast majority of Catalan society. In this sense, I must also say that those aspects which are contained in the motion for a resolution; I forgive, in the motion presented by the Ciutadans Group, it seems to us that, in the margin of the literal formulation, that we probably did not choose another, or that we put other accents, that we had undercut other things; but in the margin of that, they are a few minimums. And I understand that there are, the independenceist bench, many questions that can be returned to City and vice versa, and many points of view that surely cannot be shared. But I think that, in view of what has happened in this country in the last few years, and especially in the last two years, it would be a good thing that, from where the majority of people are and who have the responsibilities of the government, which is at the head of the institutions, do not insist on the idea of "I will do it again. Because I look at you from the independence bench asking us a lot of times for an exercise of empathy with your points of view. When they don't ask us, more vehemently, yet, an adherence to their points of view. And I'm asking them to do the reverse exercise. That understand how much of the citizenship of this country was felt, very much, on the 6th and 7th of September, the day the Unilateral Declaration of Independence was made, or when a lot of people who see the anti-Franchist struggle, the popular memory about the anti-Franchist struggle, qualify as a fetishist, a Francoist, because they do not share certain ideas about the question of the secession of Catalonia, or certain attitudes that have come to an end from the government, or some political forces in the past years. I would simply like to invite us to begin, sincerely, this reflection. Because then, if not, it's about dialog and it's empty in content. It is not possible to have a political dialogue if we insist on confrontation, unilaterality, in the « I will do it again, which, what I mean is: we will disregard the will of more than half of our fellow citizens, and therefore, from a reflection, let us say to ourselves, believe, about the mistakes that we all have made, and about the chain of disasters in which we have been putting ourselves, settling each time more, in these last two years, I believe that there could begin to be a genuine dialogue here. But, while it is very difficult for there to be a sincere dialogue, if there is no reflection on what it means, for the good part of the people of Catalonia, to hear from their main leaders, we will do it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.104.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is now the return of Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.105.0	Good afternoon to everyone. With em soprarà tempo to speak of the contingut d'acesta moció..., wanted to take advantage of this Faristol and start the intervention using it to express all our solidarity with the people of Chile, to reject the repression and disproportionate use of force by the Chilean army and police, which has caused eighteen dead people, including a four-year-old child. A violence protected by the state of emergency decreed by the president, Sebastián Piñera, to try to silence the protests of people who only asked for more democracy, more equality and more social justice. Now we see it in Chile, we see it in Ecuador. A few weeks ago, social organizations and movements protesting and organizing themselves to prevent their governments from cutting off their rights. From our group, we have channeled into the Board of Spokesmen a request for institutional declaration, made by the Federation of Latin Entities in Ecuador and the Federation of Entities of Immigrants of the Vallés, for this Parliament to condemn repression in Chile and to call for a halt to police and military violence to open democratic channels and dialogue, which allow the situation to be renewed... [[The deputy said he'd be fine.]] Excuse me. [[Pause.]] And now, we're talking about the Ciutadans movement, because there's plenty of time, because like it's an eternal repetition, it's a constant loop that they're repeating and making... I think they make a short and copy, cut and paste or something; it's okay because we're running out of time to prepare interventions. Because Ciutadan's motions and interventions, so, that's it, it's adding gasoline to the fire, and never better said. It's you who actually add gasoline to the fire. Because they think that, from the cremated land policy, they bring an electoral benefit. The fact that there is one who knows more about this, and it is Vox, who is already advancing them through the right; that they do not get there, or so it is that they are left in the middle; there are those who do it better, that is, than you. Also thanks and help for Mr. Pedro Sánchez and his electoral instinct at the time of provoking some elections thinking that he would be better off, to him and to his party, and who he is doing well with is the People's Party. I mean, from the Moon, you feel the thanks to the Lords and the Lords of the People's Party. In fact, they're so repeated and so predictable that I'm going to do Congressman Martin the favor of getting rid of them for a few seconds, if you like, and I'm already saying, "Commons don't surprise, because they're the crux of independence. [[Widow's remorse.]] I mean, they can get away with it now, if they want, because they repeat it one time and another, but it's no use, it's that they don't believe anyone, I already take a shot every time they say it. [[Rialles.]] Reality is more coughing than you want to believe, reality is not white and black, reality is not blocks [[remorse of the voice]] , it's not: "You're with me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.106.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.107.0	...or you're against me; it's not like that. You are saying in this motion for a resolution that it is necessary to condemn and reject all judicial sentences. Did La Manada's sentence reject it? Because I saw his deputies, at La Manada's hearing, mobilizing and saying that justice was patriarchal. Isn't that rejecting a court ruling? [[Greetings.]] The people who hold charges to protect vulnerable families are rejecting and failing to comply with a court ruling. And you want with this resolution that the plenary rejects these actions and condemns these actions. Do you want this Parliament to reject and put the people who put their bodies in order to stop a denunciation? So no, we won't surprise them, we'll vote this can't be. You too are saying that the expulsion from the city must be declared undemocratic because of your ideas. Yeah, of course, obviously. And by reason of its origin, its skin color or its legal status? That's also undemocratic, isn't it? , expel people for this. [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] So, miri, I also have papers: "The Popular Party and Ciutadans commit with Vox to hand over to the police and the Civil Guard the data on irregular immigrants in Andalusia. To favor his expulsion. Isn't that undemocratic? So it's you who's doing this. Here we all have the responsibility to get out of this situation, to be part of the solution. We already say, Mr. Torra with his plans is not part of the solution, but you are not part of the solution either, because you cannot, will not and will never be part of the solution. And I also want to end by referring to today's history, referring to the exhumation of the dictator. I also have a puffed-up kiss, another kiss, and a tortured and ready-made kiss. I'm thinking of my advice and my advice, that you'd be happy to see it this day, I think you'd be happier if you didn't see it coming out with flags, flowers and gifts, I think you'd be happier too – it was a little surprising, the picture. But let's not be fooled, here fell one of the chains of the dictatorship's fief, one, but we still have a lot of inheritance of Francoism to our history, our society and our streets. We also went through all the other chains that left us the franchise, and – today it has been said – the one of the monarchy, at some point, too. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.108.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.109.0	Thank you, President. Well, we've already seen a praise exercise here, to congratulate this civil guard and squadron moss pocket on these days in social revolts. And with this old report, the rape report, we already told you yesterday, you don't have a problem with the violence, the problem you have is with the social response and what you are chasing is all those people who are standing up to the tyranny of the power that you represent. Those who plant in the face of injustices and inequalities, those who have decided to defend their rights before an eco-social crisis that is stealing our lives, before an economic crisis that will come and that, moreover, will be much more cruel than the previous ones and that they want to steal our future and steal the future from thousands of young people. We rejoice, we rejoice, we rejoice that there are many people who with dignity stand out in the street and who with pride defend all those rights that are systematically violated by the State. Today we see a State funeral, we see how this new rule continues to support itself, but there are some that we have understood that if no one defends our rights for us, we will have to do it at every square, every block, every village and every street. And we won't get into your report, we won't. We will not enter the ranks of those who praise security forces and bodies, when there are forty-four people in prison, more than six hundred wounded, some of whom are severely maimed and, more importantly, when there are more than two-hundred people in detention, when police action has ignored all the recommendations of all organizations and entities in defence of human rights, when this model of security is a reactionary model and absolutely contrary to the defence of the right to protest and freedom of expression of a people. What you're doing is generating a relationship based on the coordinates they're interested in, but we won't go in there, we'll keep defending with a lot of pride those that come out every day on the street...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.110.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.111.0	...to win this by.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.112.0	Thank you. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.113.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, we are going to support this motion because it includes the fundamental elements of what is our way of looking at this matter. First, compliance always with court judgements and the whole legal system. Secondly, the condemnation expresses violence and the need to ensure public order. And thirdly, respect always to the forces and security bodies of the State, to all, to all without exception. Everyone, because they exercise in democracy the legitimate use of force and it is only the judges who can determine whether that legitimate use of force becomes disproportionate or becomes violence, is not an issue that we have to decide according to our individual judgements. And that's over, because, among other things, we're seeing that after trying to stigmatize and point out to the Civil Guard and the National Police, now it's up to the Mosses, now they're also being stigmatized, pointed out, as if they were some kind of cruel sadists, when what they do is to guarantee our rights and freedoms. But do you know what happened to them? That they too have said' enough, they too have decided that they will not kneel before their doctrinal opinions. Today we know that the Union of Police of Catalonia has decided to denounce for hate crimes TV3 and Toni Soler for publicly humiliating them in the media, in this case, on public television in Catalonia. The Mossos are also going to protect themselves from all of you, no one is quiet anymore, their problem, no matter how much you think it is Madrid and how much you like to think that this is a Catalan conflict against the rest of Spain, it is not, their problem is that half of Catalonia, at least, has told you that it will not tolerate the stories any more, and neither will the Mossos accept that they insult, stigmatize and signal them, will not accept it. And that is the fundamental problem, the desired reconciliation between all will have to be forged first in Catalonia, among all of us, and then we'll see what happens to the rest, but if you think you can go to Madrid saying that you alone represent all of Catalonia, because I'm sorry, but it's going to be no. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.114.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jenn Díaz has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.115.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members, Members, well, I will start talking about the motion for the first part, because I was very surprised by the verbs: « to withdraw if, « to accept, « to ask for forgiveness, « to cease in irresponsibility, « not to allow. Don't they get it? Don't they know that this young man is a life girl in the Civil Guard? I understand already that the company Alejandro says they give him support, because a few days ago his company called it here in this hemicle, but it doesn't matter the motion of the young man, as Segovia said, because you always take advantage of the Faristol to do the same: retract yourself, abide, apologize, cease in irresponsibility. It's the only proposal we have for coexistence, that the independenceists are out of all ideology, that we give up everything. Is this your idea of cohabitation? Your idea of dialing? Solving a political conflict? The second part of the young lady softens a little the verbs, because I suppose they answer to what you want, that those who disagree with their politics we forget ours and stop disturbing. On the title of the young man, they put the word "freedom" and they also put the word "living together", but we do not see that the points that are proposed there are appropriate, with these two words. Freedom means that they use Civil Guard, courts and courts to do politics? Is that what freedom means? Is that what they're waiting for? What are they doing? You have resigned as the political party, as the parliamentary group, as the leaders, as the deputies and the deputies to do the work for which you are here, to do politics, for which we are all here, which is to do politics. And why do I say they've given up doing politics? Because they're forcing us to come here to be lawyers, to be criminal law specialists. Every time they present a political motion with ideology, we end up talking about purely regulatory, legislative, technical issues. I haven't come here to talk all day about regulations. As a matter of fact, you came, you were born in Catalonia as you left politically only to have debates about obeying the laws, what is it? You must know as well as I do that the work of the deputies is to legislate. All right, let's come and legislate – all right. Do you know what we're coming to? To review the laws and update them. And you know why? Because the work of the deputies that we are here is also old for the validity of these laws, because the laws are girls to be useful to the citizenry, they are tools for the citizenry, they are not the tools of the courts, nor of the deputies to recant and pervert the state of law, it cannot be a mechanism of revenge and revenge constantly, as we see these days after the sentence. That's why when you end up following the resolutions, when you're perverted by the judicialization of politics, you're somehow giving up doing your job. And as the show shows, and I adhere to what Segovia's companion commented, two phonenal rights, she spoke of La Manada's judgment, of the deputies of Ciutadans who came to claim that La Manada's judgment was a patriarchal resolution. We're also talking about the autonomy of the property, what would the women do when they talk about laws against abhorrence? Or what happens to the right to habitation? Then ask yourself why the PAH makes a statement before the sentence and they will understand why they cannot vote in favour of acquitting all judicial resolutions. Laws are changing, evolving with societies. When the laws stand in the way, the work of this chamber is to accompany the citizens and the citizens and not punish them for not adapting to the resolutions that are pure perversion. We can't vote in favour of it and we'll do a full vote. I started saying... talking about these verbs, this language, and I'm gonna end up with a quote from the great Montserrat Roig. These days that you have devoted yourselves, but you already have us accustomed, to criminalizing the protest and all the movement, and that what you want is for us to be stuck in a sterilized debate about rules and outdated laws, I will try to raise a little bit the whole. "They say that all this is being red and separatist," said Montserrat Roig, "and I only know a well-educated girl. Let's vote that we won't do it with conviction. If they want us small, obeying unjust laws and resolutions, they can already breed and do not count. And taking advantage of the subject, I would also like to send all our solidarity to the company Sonia Vivas, because yes, before injustice, we have no alternatives. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.116.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Eduard Pujol has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.117.0	Well, good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillors, today the Ciutadans Group presents to us the same motion of every fifteen days but tuned with the last hits. Today's excuse is October 12th, but in the background there's no novelty, it's the usual. And we'll tell them no – we'll tell them no. This time they ask, for example – a pearl – that the Government of Catalonia is retracted from the petition for the cessation of the maximum civil guard in Catalonia, General Pedro Garrido. Set us up. What did the general do? So the general went to the barracks of Sant Andreu de la Barca and said among other pearls that they would do it again. Don Pedro, what are you guys gonna do again? Taking citizens and practicing the threat and repression? In a normal world – in a normal world – you should have run to see who is the first to enter this Parliament to require General Garrido to rectify, but we do it the other way around; but no, we do it the other way around. With regard to today's motion expressed in this forum of speakers for the Members of Parliament Terrades and Escarp. But, Mr. Pedret, I don't know if you've seen the pictures of the day, this middle, I don't know if you've seen them. Continuing to bring pit from '' to them is a mistake. And speaking of mistakes, today we have allowed a _second funeral for dictator Francisco Franco is a mess. Electoralism sometimes fails. You've got democracy – and I think so – it's been a bit of a treat. Tejero fired at the basement of the Congress, and today he repeated: today he did it at a little bit of a myop democracy. I insist, have you seen the images of Tejero? Today Tejero has broken the police rope, security control, with the complicity of the Spanish police, the same police that has no hint of complicity with the citizens of Catalonia, no complicity. Will they present a motion calling for extreme vigilance in acts sensitive to the apologia of fascism? The Francoism today comes out of the Valley of the Fallen, it's true, and it's good news, but it's not with what tribute. It is obvious that the remains of Franco and Franco are now resting in Zarzuela. And if I'm at risk of warning the Constitution, then I'm going to do it more: now they're resting on Spanish democracy that is evil and old and above all complicit, which is this democracy that is unable to put the ballots in Catalonia and resolve a political conflict that is political. When President Sánchez is important and does not take the phone to the President of Catalonia, he feeds the conflict. Moncloa's been wrong today, and it's been days. And you know that. These days under the President of the Generality, Pedro Sánchez has undercut the citizens of this country, all of them. And today, fat, allow a tribute of state to Franco, forty-four years later, so they revisit fantasies, revive the feeling of impunity of the dolphins of the rule and endorse those that 78– yes, 1978– precisely did not want the Constitution. Both for the Constitution and today they have given them police cover to cry out all manner of fascist proclamations. I'll tell you one other way. You played, Espanya played. With Catalonia they see each other with color; with fascism, not mass. I have the feeling that with fascism not too much. From now on, therefore, there is a lesson in democracy; from now on, if the State wants to look and talk about citizenship and democracy, please look at Catalonia. Spain needs to know that if Catalonia leaves, if we play the two, it is because Spain is one, one and centralist..., Spain is a heritage of sociological Francoism must know that we leave because Spain's politics is never tired of repressing. Past and future, less nostalgia and more dialogue. Please get off the rails and take a step forward. They've sentenced us all in the last few weeks, they've put us in prison for a hundred years at every one of us, and we're exactly where we were: today we're thinking exactly the same thing as we thought on October 14, 2019, a quarter of a time in the morning, when the Supreme hadn't yet communicated the sentence. The crackdown, ladies and gentlemen, is not for, because it's just sad. Arrest and repression, and we are exactly where we were: we compromise with freedom. What did Spain win after two years of blunt repression? Please, lords of Ciutadans, very quickly, have an idea for Catalonia, nor that it is an Spanish idea of Catalonia, but believe [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , think, propose and, please, engage also...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.118.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.119.0	... the rest of the political parties in the dialog; the dialog is absolutely necessary to resolve the political situation in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.120.0	Now it's up to you... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You have two minutes to position yourself on the exams, congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.121.0	No, because there were no exams...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.122.0	It's true, I'm sorry. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.123.0	Perfect. Well, I am asked by Mr Pujol what Mr Pedro Garrido, the General of the Civil Guard, means when he says « we will do it again. So I'll explain. On the other hand, Mr. Torra never explains what he wants to say – we all know that democracy is the time. But in any case I say exactly what Mr. Pedro Garrido said: "We must not expect more from that sentence than the purpose that must strictly be given justice; that is, to establish the proven facts and the responsibilities of those who executed them, in accordance with the criminal and procedural law in force. We demonstrated it two years ago, we did it again recently and every time we need to do it again, because we have the full conviction that the society we serve understands and believe that it has not released or secured it outside the law. It seems to me an impeccable interpretation of what a democratic rule of law is. I know it's hard for you to understand, but that's how modern democracies work. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.124.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.125.0	Yes, President; for allusions and contradictions with Mr Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.126.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.127.0	Miri, Mr. Pujol, nor the angular rhetoric to which they have us accustomed or all this epic so set to which they have us accustomed can hide the henical flight of their arguments in their intervention today. It's not like that. Pretending that what happened today is a state funeral is an insult to all the people who have been fighting so much because a moment like this is produced. [[Greetings.]] Your arguments will be downloaded from the session logbook. [[The applause continues.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.128.0	We called for a vote. Are there separate voting petitions? Don't you? (Pause.) So let's go to the polls. We're voting for the young lady's joint. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] MPs, MPs... [[Pause.]] They didn't vote for the deputies who came in. Calm down. The result of the motion was the following: 58 votes in favour, 67 against and no abstentions. Therefore, the young man is rejected. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into mental salvation]] [[302-00146/12]] Let's move on to the next motion, to the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government on mental salvation, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Mrs. White Victoria Navarro has the word to introduce you. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.129.0	Thank you, President. A few days ago we commemorate World Mental Health Day, this year with the motto of suicide prevention. First of all, I would like to greet the representatives of the mental health associations and survivors of suicide who accompany us. After twenty years of working as a psychiatrist in social security, twenty years suffering as a professional and prescribing to users and their families the shortcomings of the public health system, it is for you that I entered politics, because it is necessary that people with mental health experiences and their families are truly the center of politics and for this it is necessary a model of mental health care useful, accessible, that serves to help them, you, all who at a given time we may need it. [[Greetings.]] Talking about mental health is not easy; suicide, either. We all have close or have lived experiences in mental health. And without losing sight that mental illness is not the only cause that can lead a person to think about suicide, talking about these issues inevitably challenges us. You need to hear more. They are stories of suffering, but they are also stories of overcoming and recovery. Today, in Catalonia, one_de_cada_four people need mental health care, but only one_de_cada_treinta receives it; a problem that affects absolutely all families in Catalonia more or less closely, and only one_de_cada_eight of those who need it are cared for. Would it occur to them that this will happen in another area of health? , that, for example, only one_of_each_eight of those who have had an stroke would be attended to? Today patients are visited on average only once every two months, visits to the psychiatrist, psychologist, nurse, social worker, group, individuals, only once every two months, well below what the experts recommend. Would someone think that a chemotherapy that has shown effectiveness in decreasing the size of the tumor if we give it every three weeks would only give it every eight weeks? Today, social security psychiatrists are drifting to private hospitals – who can afford it, of course. Can you imagine that they break their hips and send them to a private hospital for surgery by paying for their pocket? Today, the person is not the center; the affected associations have to organize themselves to have the treatments that CatSalut is not giving them. Today, families endure very hard situations; it is the caregivers, it is the companions, and almost always with a gender bias, because it is usually the women – the mothers, the wives, the sisters – who play this role as caregivers. And in the department or in CatSalut, does anyone care if this thing we're giving them in the public health system serves them, helps them live better? Because no one asks, no one asks. Although Agenda 2030 sets out to reduce suicide deaths as a development goal, there is no suicide prevention plan in Catalonia today. And prevention begins in education. There are programs applicable in schools of education in social and emotional skills that have shown effectiveness in reducing psychological discomfort and the risk of suicide, and are not being implemented. What is present in other countries in Catalonia is psychiatry fiction. And because in order to advance prevention, we must develop community care and advance integration between health and social resources, ensure access to places for rehabilitation, leisure, access to work, genuine inclusion in society, support for families, and, above all, we must fight against stigma. And the fight against stigma begins with the Administration, because the Administration addresses mental health problems as it does with other medical problems. The documents support everything. But for departmental programs to shift from role to real improvements in people's lives, it takes professionals to implement them. They have been reorganizing tasks with the same professionals for years to express, express and express the professionals to care for more patients, and what is needed are resources, because the great professionals we have in Catalonia give no more of themselves, they have reached the limit, and the patience of families and users as well. It's time. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] That they shut down the monotheme of the process, that they realize that the situation is agonistic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.130.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.131.0	... – one moment –, get to work and prioritize what money is used for... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.132.0	One moment, no; time is running out, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] To defend the papers presented, has the word now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the deputy Mrs Maria Assumption Laïlla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.133.0	Well, thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, friends and family who accompany us today in this Chamber, it is always to please, therefore, that it is a matter of mental salvation, the opportunity to speak of mental salvation in this Faristol, in this Chamber, here in Parliament, because unfortunately it is never enough, and I also believe that we will not talk much and much longer than our own years for the same evolution, right? , the system, the pathologies, the age, the hope of life; so we won't have to talk much more. And, therefore, we appreciate the opportunity to talk about it in this faristol, all that we need to be aware that the problems that the treatment or assistance has, the attention to mental health..., we will not solve with this motion and badly neither with many others, because the intervention it requires..., the mental disorders, caring for people with mental disorders surely transcends the sum of concrete actions..., but what it means to take a much more general look at it, among other things, because it is true that one_each_four people across their lives will suffer a mental transport, which is not to say, Congresswoman, that 25_percent of the population per day has a mental illness, but 25 % of their lives will be passed on to another. And, besides, we also need to be very conscious, that it will surely also be very linked to other pathologies, to the comorbidity that exists and to chronicity in mental health, but also with other pathologies. So, do we have to talk about health systems, the xarxes, how do we talk about this young man? Roundly, yes. But do we just have to talk about this? Roundly, no. And this young man is also a little bit of a tailor of all kinds of themes, which we really don't have to talk about, because mental salvation or we look at him from a cross-sectional perspective or we won't get out of it, because it's a mess that doesn't just affect salvation, it's not just a disruption of salvation, it's just a condition and it's more affected by other aspects of our daily life. We're talking about social relationships, we're talking about the oci, we're talking about the school when the transformation is in school, in the world of work, we're talking about housing, we're talking about many other things. And, therefore, either we do a cross-cutting action from this perspective or we won't get out of it. And we need to talk about prevention. The important thing about which we have to pivot above all when we talk about mental disorders is prevention, but not just primary prevention, the one we think we have to do to prevent it from being produced or coming out of anything..., a mental disorder is manifested, but also the secondary, when this has already come out, and the tertiary also to avoid relapses. And this general preventive approach I think is also basic to face the treatment of mental illness, incorporating also the adherence to the treatment, talking about the connection to health care, to the centres and to the mental health device. And also – and never forget it – attention to families, to the community, above all to the cleanest but also expanding it to the community. And all of that obviously evaluating it. Every time it's more important, and here I think that in mental health we have a lot of work to do, to evaluate the results, to know what it is and what it doesn't work, and how we work because every time it's more efficient. And here we have, I think, a good way to run and it's important to incorporate into it the assessment of health outcomes in the realm of mental salvation, but they are also aware of all these other factors that also affect the evolution of mental illness. And a clear example of all this, therefore, is the National Suicide Plate. The councilwoman announced, precisely this year, with the motivation that this year was dedicated to the prevention of suicide, this creation of a national plan of care for suicide. It was about "attention because it wants to go beyond prevention and also what it is to work with this closest community, with the family. Therefore, it is important that this National Platform of Suicides of the Government is already working, that it is not only preventive, that it is of attention and that it wants to take care of all those agents involved, that in a case of suicide or risk of suicide they must give immediate attention and are directly affected. I am speaking to him, of course, about the health professionals, I am talking of course about the security, that many times they are the ones who first start a situation of an attempt at suicide, we are talking of course, and I cannot forget, about the family, about the closest, also school and community, and of course the public administrations, starting from the proximity, the municipal world, but also ending with the Administration of the Generality. So, for all this, after we've worked this young man out of all the papers, I think it's thirteen that we've traded, we'll support this young man. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.134.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Lluís Guinó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.135.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, Members and Members, attending today's sitting in Parliament, let me, first of all, observe a fact respecting mental illness, and it is the absolute lack of visualisation in many cases where these situations are experienced at the family level. And from here, let's know that the health system has the obligation to help them, to give them support and, more importantly, to put in the necessary means so that these situations of malaise are vague, somehow, resolute and, for another band, apply prevention mechanisms, absolutely necessary and that obviously avoid the unfortunate result of suicide in some cases. I would like to focus on a question that has to do with the difficulties not only of the ills, but also of the families that find this situation. One that has come close to some situation of these characteristics which many times feel is a certain loneliness, it feels like it does not have the possibility to face up to it in a manner that is close to and with the support necessary to these situations. And, on the other hand, there is a misunderstanding, which is certainly age-related, it is difficult to quantify, but a certain lack of understanding at the social level of the difficulties that are and that involve mental illness, not only for whom they suffer, but I insist, on the part of families. For what he does to the department, beyond the clear will to increase resources for these diseases, which certainly is very linked not only to the issues they have to deal with the process..., this has absolutely nothing to see. The country is precisely because people who have difficulties from a point of view of salvation, the public system, which is a system that works, solves their shortcomings. There is one possibility, certainly, and that we have it from the Parliament of Catalonia, which is to approve and support certain assumptions to increase precisely these parties. If there is not enough for the majority to approve assumptions, it is difficult to allocate resources to those needs that are clearly peremptory and that cause society to somehow precisely values in a much more positive form the legislative activity that we do to the Parliament of Catalonia. Therefore, if we want more resources, we have to approve assumptions. It is not only a question of redistributing the resources of salvation, it is also a question of obtaining more resources and of being able to allocate them to questions that are certainly easily palpable, above all from the studies that are fan and from the studies of viability that exist, that certainly, in the field of mental illness, more resources are lacking, and more resources are lacking to get to the people who suffer these diseases, not only from the sphere of the primary and the community, but also from following up all those questions and the evolution of these diseases. There's a question, which I've made reference to before, but it's also very important. We must finally break with certain social stigmas that harm all those people who suffer these diseases. There must be no stigma, there must be support, there must be solidarity, there must be help. And this is an obligation for the Government of the Generality, and the Department of Salvation, especially. We have a plan from the realm of salvation, but it certainly needs better. And that's a recognition that's done precisely in this young man. And that's why we've come to a practically global agreement, because we've traded many of the submissions. I mean, first of all, she's a good young lady, we recognize her. It is a necessity for these motions in Parliament to be debated and to take decisions that may, in some way, ask the Government to urge it to take action. And we defend, moreover, that these actions are clearly transversal. We find ourselves at a time when public policies are either cross-cutting or partial. There are questions of falling from salvation that have clearly social connotations, that have to do with the welfare of people, and they cannot be sectorized within a sphere of the Department of Salvation strictly. There must be cross-cutting, coordination, cooperation with all departments, from Health, Social Welfare, as well as from the field of education. It is basic that the people and our young people understand that it is possible to enter into a dynamic of suicide, how we can prevent these issues and how the health system needs to resolve them. And to insist, in the end, that we also need as much data as possible to be transparent, to have means to find and fully explain the transparency and all possible systems of measures to be taken from this perspective. And another very important one also in the politics of the future or of the present, which must be done with all possible participation of users and people who suffer from these diseases and their surroundings. Without their participation, without their opinion and without the possibility of moving to public opinion and to people who suffer from these diseases..., objectively and clearly, there are many difficulties. From that point on, what we sincerely intend to do is to work together and work on foundations in a dynamic that must, precisely, transform Catalonia's system of salvation with respect to mental illness. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.136.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Joints to advance and to fix its position, the honourable Member Assumpta Escarp has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.137.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. Greeting the friends and companions who today wanted to be there and follow this debate from Parliament's rostrum. Welcome. I would like to begin with a definition made by the WHO – the year 48 of the last century – about what they understand as a salvation: "A complete state of physical, mental and social well-being, and not merely the absence of affections or illnesses. And it really continues to be of full force. The WHO also warned us, in the year 2002, about the increase in mental disorders at the next decades and said: "The aging of the population, the increase in risk factors such as the atur, the poor, the migration, the lack of family and social support, the increase in substance abuse, the loneliness and the breakdown of social networks are aspects that contribute to the increase in mental disorders. I think a little bit of this is the picture we're moving into. This young man, presented around World Day of Mental Health, was the 10th of October..., and this year he wanted to dedicate himself to the prevention of death by suicide. The agenda of mental salvation in Catalonia makes this motto of "Speaking, listening, saving lives, right? Teach and say there's life, that you can live and that it's worth living. That's why I think it's important, and thank the presentation of this young lady to Congresswoman Blanca Navarro, who makes her interventions from the perspective of years of work and profession, and that's always nice. And, therefore, I think it is also to appreciate the effort of everyone to reach a consensus around these issues and these transactions. Those who know, Congresswoman Laïlla, Congresswoman Blanca Navarro, the others we accompany and accompani a wish. Mr. Guinó – like me – we accompany a desire that things vagina, and not so much from knowledge. But I was wondering, this year... you're getting out of this, right? , that this year the World Day was around the prevention of suicide, and, above all, that when the world days of mental salvation were instituted, it was done with the aim of promoting mental salvation to public consciousness and increasing the understanding of everyone regarding these problems of mental salvation and eliminating stigmas. And I wondered how many more world days we would need to eradicate the stigma associated with mental illness and increase the prevention of discrimination that is produced every day. And I was responding to it the same way that maybe there's still a lot more. Speaking of suicide, every forty seconds one person dies in the world for suicide. And one day we said, and every forty-one-second someone is wondering why. Therefore, the prevention of suicide – and I believe that Mr. Guinó also gave it, in general, in mental salvation – is a global empire, but the multisectoral and integral focus..., or it will not be possible to do some things. The dice hit, huh? For every death, six survivors need to be accompanied. There have been twenty tempts for every suicide consumed. Therefore, the figures fade, but what we have to do is make us realize that death by suicide is today a much bigger problem than we want to admit. And, therefore, we have every right to settle down there. And they ask for integrative strategies, and they said the same manifesto, which includes work at the individual level, of the community and of the institutions. That's why we share point 3 of the motion, about defining and implementing an autonomous strategy, especially when it comes to primary prevention, right? , with guarantees of accessibility, resources and territorial equity. And don't forget about the survivors. And above all and again, that's equity and the whole territory. In general, we support this young man and we support transactions too, don't we? Maybe I would've liked it if there were more fish on the city hall, right? , that we are always talking about the approach from the primary, that it can be an element of early detection of mental disorders and that, moreover, we are all clear that intervention first helps recovery. Therefore, here we have to make a great effort because if we say that only the public health system treats a 3_per_cent, we have a problem, in the primary but also in the specialized. But this focus a little from primary and continuing care between primary and specialized perhaps..., if you have to make some criticism, but take it - absolutely in positive. I'm going to one of the points that you're setting up – and I'm going to finish this – which is the clarity in the service portfolio and the rearrangement of existing services, because we usually have [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I'm sorry, I'm finished – I put many acronyms, but many times we lack a little order in all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.138.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Marta Ribas. When you want...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.139.0	[[The speaker lowers the microphones from the rostrum.]] We have different heights in this Parliament. Well, truly, as a Member, we fully agree: the current offer of resources for mental health does not cover the needs of the population, of which the population requires. Long lists of expectations, fewer visits and more spaces than would be desirable, even incomplicating the recommended clinical evidence. In fact, we have the feeling that what we have in Catalonia is not a model of attention to mental health and addictions; what we have is a heterogeneity of models with a predominance especially of what is the diagnostic and pharmacological labeling, with a very important territorial inequity, and more with a distinction between community mental health, primary care and drug addictions, on many occasions outside the system, this last one. Therefore, it all requires a complex approach and full force, which partly in this case is being done and which, therefore, we will vote in favour, especially because it largely coincides with our priority that the mental health system should be community-oriented, preventive, with a strong and guaranteed basic portfolio and with well-coordinated systems, with a clear focus on rehabilitation and recovery, with active participation of people with mental disorders but also of their families. And why we also agree with the importance of the struggle against stigma and of the proposals to move forward in combating these high levels of existing suicides, especially juvenile suicides. Therefore, we will approve this motion and congratulate ourselves that today we may be talking about mental salvation, which is not usual in this House. We would, however, like to take advantage of the fact that for a time we are talking about mental health, to expose a concrete case of good practice due to the end of the last few years in Catalonia in this area, from a joint civil society and government pilot plan that is at real risk of disappearing. It's the project "Activate't for mental salvation. It is a programme of monitoring, empowerment and mutual support that is clearly aimed at recovering people with mental health problems and supporting families from taking advantage of, coordinating, organizing existing services and accessing existing services, but also with new tools for empowerment and effective mutual assistance. Five years ago it worked as a pilot, it was driven by the Federation of Mental Health in Catalonia, it has been at thirteen places throughout Catalonia, it has been rated – and very positively – by Ivàlua, recognized by the WHO, and now to continue to be included in the service portfolio – Health Service Portfolio and Social Service Portfolio –. And not as a simulation of a program that already works, not as a nyap, but as it has proven to work, with all its complexity, also in this case. In change, he is at risk of dying, because it is a pilot plan that ends on 31 December, but that in order to continue to take advantage of this experience and this success contrast heat that decisions have been made. And these movie lifts, by the end of October, they're not there. We want to denounce, therefore, an important incongruity that we believe will occur today, which is that the majority of support to the Government that will approve this young man today, where we are talking about the priority of community-based prevention, of therapeutics, of psycho-educational programs, of active participation of users and families, with facts, in reality – whether it is left behind or not because of lack of political will – is about to leave without continuity a program that has already proved successful, such as the Active Pilot. And that can't keep happening. This country is blocked, and who pays for it is the citizenry, and so are those people, and those professionals, and those entities and families that have put so much effort into making programs that work, like this one, that is demonstrated, that are evaluated and then left in nothing. Counselor, I won't allow it. And tell the social advisor that you don't allow it either, both of you from the Republican Left: we're complaining that they're consistent and they don't commit incongruities. I'm sure there's 30 seconds left. Today they have removed the mummy of the dictator of Cuelgamuros, but there are many things left to do to make the franchise of Espanya disappear, among others, because now we have defenders of the franchise still in the Congress of Deputies, and now, unfortunately, face completely discovered. There are also elections ahead of us, which must also be used to take out the franchise of our institutions. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.140.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.141.0	Good afternoon. First of all, say hello to the friends and company of the entities that are in this Ple. To expose that we, as the subgroup, only have two minutes and a half to try to explain our position, but we will try to do so, in this short time that we have. First of all, in general terms we agree with the motion. We think it is important to expand or expand the service portfolio. We also consider that this possibility of integrating health services for one band and social services for another band is a very good measure. The fact that you use, users, and family members can determine the plans – the therapeutic plans – also means an advent, and of course a question that we need to internalize above all that we are in this band, which is not to stigmatize mental illness, and above all the illnesses and illnesses, as well as the functional issue. That said, there are other questions that it is not as long as we are against it, but we do not agree exactly with how they are presented in the motion. They'll explain it to us. The first, which refers to presuppositional endowment. Certainly, in paragraph 1 it is expressly said: "Presuppositionary endowment, with this literal. But we would have needed the realization of this presuppositional endowment, because, if not, we find ourselves with the problem of day-to-day waiting lists of public health specialists, who do not just give answers as is necessary to mental illness or mental illness and mental illness. The second question is also important for us: there is certainly a reference to the prevention plan, but for us it would be much more important if a step were to be taken back, which is to determine the causes of mental illness or mental illness. At a later stage, if we go to see why mental illness has increased, we will understand that it is the concrete expression, at the present stage in our country, of capitalism. To hear this, I will give you two examples: in the education system, a teaching every time more competitive and individualistic that determines frustration and causes mental illness. And secondly, in the field of work, to those who refuse to work and that society, or the majority of society, pretends to place them as guilty of not having work when they are actually victims, or even to those who, having done work, see that they are engaged in working rhythms or an organization of work that generates them tension and that engages them in mental illness. For us, it is an absolute matter of taking action on the effects of mental illness, but it is a matter of principle, of organization, of fighting over the causes of this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.142.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Santi Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.143.0	Thank you, President. Well, in order to position ourselves in relation to this motion, which deals with substantively different aspects quite concrete in relation to mental health, and also later, more concretely, in relation to suicide, prevention and the subsequent effects of suicide attempts and, therefore, all this treatment. I think this is another young man who in this House, for whom I have heard from the rest of the parliamentary groups, will end up enjoying the unanimity of the chamber, right? And we celebrate. Many times..., above all with special incidence after the great economic crisis and financing that we have gone through, has taken place many times in the need to provide mental salvation of resources, right? And in this case, actually, there are three questions, eh? The need to properly size the service – in the first place the service – and this obviously also requires to adequately size the number of professionals that are needed to adequately provide the services we want to provide to the citizenry in this area of mental salvation. And then there's another question that's not new either – today we haven't discussed another motion – with regard to territorial equity, that all people are, regardless of who their place of residence is, who have access to "most of them," I say between comets, right? – mental health services that can be provided from the Administration. But all this has a common denominator, one – one – which is basically summed up at the first point of the motion, which is the presuppositional endowment. And I can still agree with the Aragonese deputy when he says it would be important to quantify it – I can agree with it – but before quantifying it, what we need is a government that can approve assumptions. I no longer say that a Parliament approves them, that's a lot to ask; as at least, there is a government able to approve certain assumptions in the case of the same government – as at least – to be able to toughen them in Parliament, debate whether or not we can discuss whether the assumptions are adequate or not. But almost a year and a half after the Government's formalization, this one still feels unable to approve assumptions to be able to debate such important questions as the motion raises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.144.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the return of Mrs. White Victoria Navarro. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.145.0	Thank you, President. And thanks to all the groups for the support they have expressed in their speeches; thanks also to the interest shown, to the groups which have tabled amendments and to the spirit of being able to negotiate them. And, well, some comment is that, in fact, as Mrs Escarp commented, we can continue to work and we can continue to move forward in that the primary also has more resources to be able to move forward in its role as early detection. Important as regards waiting lists..., is that directly in mental health they are not quantified, waiting lists, with which in order to be able to talk about waiting lists we would have to start talking about the portfolio of mental health services and start quantifying it. With this motion, as we have commented, we propose a true model of biopsychosocial, community-based approach, the importance – which has also been commented on by some Members – of building on prevention, integrating health and social resources, which is equitable, ensuring access to all citizens living where they live, ensuring support for families, ensuring an approach based on psychotherapy and psychoeducation, beyond the pharmacological approach, and ensuring access to treatments that have been shown to be effective according to scientific evidence. With this motion we propose that users and families be an active part of decision-making, which would also be a great step forward, and that they be taken into account in the evaluation of health outcomes, which is not being done now. And, well, the truth is also that I am grateful that you mentioned the "Activa't", because I was part of the first group, of the group that designed the "Activa't" and of the group that launched it in the first pilot. So I appreciate you having this welcome, because it's really a good program. And by presenting this motion, then, we want to be the voice of users, families and professionals, so that no one is so careless that they never have to think about taking their lives. Thank you for everything. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.146.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. [[Pause.]] No separate vote has been requested; do I understand that the House can vote on the joint motion? Yeah? [[Pause.]] So let's move on to the vote on the motion. The vote begins. The motion following the question to the Government on mental health was unanimously approved: 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Strong applause.]] Thank you. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into security policies]] [[302-0150/12]] Let's go to the next point, the dissette, which is the Movement following the government's inquiry into security policies. Presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, to expose it has the parable of the deputy Mrs Esperanza García. When you want...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.147.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Look, we've been presenting this motion in security policy, having very recorded in the retina and in the consciousness the dantesque images provoked by the guerrillas of the totalitarian tsunami these past few days: wounded, attempted murder of police officers, barricades burning in front of homes and neighbors quenching things with hoses from their terraces – this I've seen on my parents' farm... And then came the raves, the raves of totalitarianism, which launched the days after the barricades and the fires garbage to the agents, so they showed everyone that their smiles had little smile; what they were, were feelings of the sinister, violent and I would say, even, that even classist of what we've seen in recent years. Violence, it is clear that it was happening, and counseling also had a little suspicion. So much, that meant that when the department's communication lady announced a possible more than likely use of pepper gas, she was removed ipso facto. I have already warned Mr Buch several times that security policies cannot be either partisan or politicised. Moreover, I asked him in the interpellation to try to leave the design of the operation for the technicians and that those were the ones that ensured the freedom of all and the safety of all, both those who used the supposedly right to strike to carry out continuous sabotages and those who wanted to continue with their normal life. And he listened to me – and I'm not pretentious at all, I know it's not for me – and he listened to me and it really was. And the operation in certain circumstances worked very well and in others, well, not so much, didn't it? But I believe that, in any case, if we have to analyse in the future what was possibly failed, we have to do it with discretion, with seriousness, because security is not a new season of The Wire; it is a serious thing that requires patience and responsibility. It also seems to be, Mr. Buch, that you are the only member who has given you support to the state's security forces and bodies, including the Mossos, even though you voted to leave Catalonia from the police and the Civil Guard. And Mr. Torra has taken action on this, hasn't he? , because yesterday, then, he did not threaten..., threatened with the realization of dossiers and possible purges within the body and, finally, to you I think it left quite disauthorized. What I do have to tell you is that it does not seem that you are still very aware that the subjects who carried out last week's violent actions are separatists and not anti-systems. And for this I welcome his own words: that in twenty-five years of the existence of the body, such violence had never been seen. There I agree with you. And I know it's hard enough, right? , because if they were just anarchists, since in Catalonia we have a fairly long history of presence of anarchism, because it would already be strange. Moreover, the subjects themselves were in charge of claiming that no, that of course they were separatists. Moreover, they shouted, while burning a barricade, "Llibertat prisoners and all these things that we are already used to. Even an ex-parliamentarian of this chamber was in charge of reminding you that what you were, were the grandchildren, nephews and children of some protesters, who, yes, contained the forms in nearby squares. The violent are of radical separatism, no more or less. Those who in the end have received a constant dose of hatred for everything Spanish, a constant dose of infantilism, of intangible hopes, a generation educated in a nationalism that in the end does not know how to channel the frustration of knowing that the process, therefore, was a beacon. It was said at the time by a counselor and a sentence stands out, saying that the process was a dream. This promotion is intended therefore to schedule police coordination that has worked, and we have had the proof; to redistribute agents in the territory; to commission an audit of the DAI to eliminate abusive practices and possible purges that have more to do with political than non-technical reasons, and to equip the Mossos with human and technical resources, which they have told us themselves through several trade union communiqués, which did not have sufficient means to deal with the situation we had. I am asking the groups, those who have not participated in the amendments – which you have already seen as they have gone –..., I am not asking you to support this motion; I am asking you to be responsible, that security is a sufficiently responsible issue and that we have a tragic week that sets us a path to correct. Please be responsible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.148.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú Puem, and to defend the papers presented, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.149.0	Well, good afternoon, president, deputies, deputies. Well, Mrs. Garcia, you leave me a little astorage, because the motion you submitted, I assume you presented it before the events of last week, and you have now made an exhibition only referring to those events, on which I have already been able to ask the counselor this morning and we have made clear the position of our group. But, of course, it leaves me in a difficult situation now, because it is obvious that we differ greatly from the approach you have made, as I have already exposed this morning. In any case, and in order to defend the message that we have presented, at the first point of your motion you propose a series of measures that we understand can be taken to improve security in the country. It is true that we disagree with the wording you are making, because we are concerned about making a certain trend towards criminalization on the part of some groups of this chamber, and I think it is obvious that we live in a safe country and that, even so, if we look at the data, then in the later year there has been an increase in crime, specifically a 9.4_per_cent between 2017 and 2018; this is reality. And it's also true that they've focused, isn't it? , that the majority of criminal acts are concentrated in the tax per thousand inhabitants, which is higher in the metropolitan region of Barcelona, the police region of Barcelona, than the rest. Now, if we look at the detail of this data, what we see is that it's the most grown up, isn't it? ... or that the majority of criminal acts are basically not crimes, but are petty crimes or thefts. And, therefore, we disagree with the approach you are making, in that you are talking about this increase in crime, and we think that you should, in any case, talk about an increase in theft and crime. Because in the case of crimes, those who really grow are a typology, that are sexual abuse, that have increased by 30_per_cent, and sexual assaults, that have increased by 10_per_cent. In any case, we also believe that it is necessary to diagnose the problem well, so that we can find good solutions, and therefore, we have already said on repeated occasions that what we believe would be good for correcting these situations would be a reform of the Criminal Code, to avoid impunity for recidivism. At the first point, as I said, you pose a series of questions to us, and the message that we have presented concretely at point 1.c– and we thank him for having accepted it, right? – so this is the point where we are talking about the creation, as I said this morning, of a structural hors d'hos so that while the new police officers do not arrive – because we know that we did not approve this morning 750 but that they would cheat for a year to become effective – that while there may have been this hors d'hos so that we could cover the deficiencies and the need for citizen security. And what we added was "updating the price of the extraordinary hour, which today is lower than that of the ordinary. In any case, for what he does to the rest of his young lady's points, we would vote against them, because after the presentation he made, which is still more obvious... We thought we'd do it that way, didn't we? However, in point 3, you are talking about the importance of collaboration between the different polices – Mosso d'Esquadra, Policia Nacional and Guardia Civil –, and, look, we believe that the deficiencies of the Catalan police..., we do not believe that they will be covered with other police things, and less when they are things than what they do is to use rubber balls, as we have seen these last days. Therefore, we will not be collecting this type of collaboration, which, as we have already said, we believe that, in any case, it should be produced to ensure that this type of anti-disturbing device is not used. We defend the fact that the Statute of Catalonia is already receding, that it is that the Squadron Mosses are the integral police of Catalonia and that they are, therefore, resources so that they can develop their functions, starting with the resources that the State gives to the Generality. And at point 4 you go back to talking about the same, the three police officers and their collaboration, and urge the government to increase resources and materials in public order. Well, we believe that resources are being used, in any case, in the area of security is patrolling, mediating, proximity police, infrastructure, basic materials, science police, and not anti-disturbing material. It is more than that, we bet to eliminate the anti-disturbing material with indiscriminate effects on the population that is manifested, such as tear gas, or material that can cause heavy damage to people, not just rubber balls, but also foam guns, which, as we have seen these days, also cause heavy damage to people. Therefore, at these points we will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.150.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, has the word now the lady Maria Francisca Valle. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.151.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. My first words are addressed to those who during this black week have exposed their lives to protect us all Catalans: our forces and state security forces – Mossos d'Esquadra, National Police, Civil Guard and local police. [[Greetings.]] We are proud of all of you, for your work, for your spirit of sacrifice and for that lesson of professionalism that you have given us in extreme situations these days. We wish for an early recovery both to the agent who suffered the most serious aggression, Ivan, and to all the wounded. This motion refers to Mossos d'Esquadra, and I want this body to know that our parliamentary group is aware of its limited numbers and resources, too. And yet, we know that in complicated situations like those we have experienced these days they have lived up to the circumstances and have given the best of themselves. That is why they and the rest of the state's security forces and forces deserve, and have, our full support and recognition. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]] Probably the groups that support the government, Junts per Cat and Esquerra, before this motion will again do what they usually do: false promises, smoke sale and a pat on the back, and then talk about respect for the body. Respect. Respect, gentlemen of the Government, Mr. Counsellor, respect is to equip the Mossos d'Esquadra with the means necessary to enable them to work decently; respect is not to make political use of their agents or to create a Pretorian guard for Mr. Torra; respect is to trust their professionalism and give them support at difficult times and not to question their work over and over again, as the highest representative, Mr. Torra, does. We have a serious problem caused by the separatist parties for a long time: many of you do not know that as public representatives we must set an example for the citizens who trust us. And that is why when you, Mr de Esquerra, Mr de Junts per Cat, rise to applaud by shouting "freedom for those imprisoned for alleged terrorism, with that gesture you are legitimizing violence. And when Esquerra calls for boycotting structures or occupying airports, they give the message that sabotage is allowed and therefore legitimize violence. When you do not strongly condemn violent acts such as throwing acid at the Mossos d'Esquadra, projectiles to the helicopter or adoquines at the head of a police officer, you are implicitly authorizing that behavior and are therefore legitimizing the violence. You, gentlemen of Esquerra, who go from dialogians, from state gentlemen, in the background do the same as Mr Torra and Junts per Cat: encourage with these gestures to the violent, although then you want to demarcate with your words. But neither the PSC, at key times, has been up to the point of the circumstances. When we have seen that peaceful coexistence is dangerous and that Mr. Torra must be stopped because it is a public danger – because it is a public danger – we are presenting a motion of censure. What did you do? They went out to the rescue of Mr. Torra, at that time; they disappointed the Catalans. We will support this motion. We have tabled a number of amendments, some have been accepted, some have not, but we believe that it is now more necessary than ever to strengthen the Mossos d'Esquadra with urgent, human and material measures, it is necessary to avoid their politicization, it is necessary to convene urgently the Security Board; the forces and security forces of the State are a fundamental part of ensuring our security. And I want to give them a thought. In these sad and hard days, when we saw with anguish the events on the streets of Barcelona, and when I heard here some interventions suspiciously and blaming those who watch for our security, I wonder: "Are you really aware of the despair of people, like that father who had to take his son out of his house in arms so that he would not drown with smoke, or of people with little mobility trapped and powerless in their floors seeing the fire close by, or of merchants who saw how they destroyed their livelihood? Can you imagine the family members of the police, seeing how they violently attack them in the face of an irrational mob, with insufficient resources to defend themselves? You, Junts per Cat and Esquerra, have offered a non-existent and unattainable panorama to those who have trusted you, and now you find the result. The result is frustration and hatred, often channelled through violence. What they are doing is a serious irresponsibility, every time they speak and try to discredit justice, undermine the confidence of Catalans in the judiciary and in the state security forces and bodies and now also in the Mossos d'Esquadra. Look, there's a risk that what happened days ago will happen again. So act with the responsibility they have in charge, equip the Mossos d'Esquadra with the means they need, immediately convene the Security Board [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] and stop encouraging young people and Catalan society not to respect democratic institutions, because, otherwise, do you know what is left to us all, including you too?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.152.0	You're out of your mind, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.153.0	Right away, President. We have what we have suffered these days: fire and chaos. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.154.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix his position, the deputy Carles Castillo, of the PSC Group and Units to Advance, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.155.0	As they say in journalism, they say in journalism: "Let reality not spoil you a good headline. Good afternoon to everyone. I don't know if it's true for you, I think it's worth it, sometimes, to bring elements of reality also into this Parliament, but to me as a citizen or a citizen comes to me and asks me: "How are you in Parliament? Why don't you work, you're not doing anything, are you? And they say that because of this government's sense of paralysis, because of the image of public servants who each time went worse, including the emergence and security. I answer them, when they ask me this, I say that it's still worse, because we Members and Members do our work, we meet with the people we have to get together, we move the problems of the territory, we get here, we get to consensus, we get consensus, we get to approve things and then this government, so in most cases it doesn't bring them in. And that's one of the problems we have. I'm saying this because some of the points of this young man are true that they are repeated, but that's not why I think it's less appropriate and less necessary to repeat them, today, here. And I'm also surprised by some comments made about the motion, interpretations of the motion of things that you really don't say this motion. I'm used to trying to read the contents of the motions and decide whether or not to approve of the literality, not from whom the motion is presented, and in this case I think it's an interesting young man, I say, of repeated themes, that we've touched on several times in this Parliament, but that's not why I don't think it's worth repeating them another time. The first part of the motion, for example, speaks of questions of public police service, things so sensile, which have also been said here many times, how to redistribute territorially depending on the needs of each territory, or, for example, to strengthen the units of the body depending on the criminal conflict of each unit. And that's what we have to say, we have to put it on the table, because, of course, we see that in the office, we see that in the department, therefore, decisions have been made and things have been brought to an end that we believe are not the right ones, right? As well as one of the questions posed in this motion is the disappearance of the Institutional Security Area, an area that has been created in the band, there is already a division of escorts. And that's why we think it's worth saying and reinforcing the fact that it's distributing the moves that are up to conflict and not up to some people's interests. It is also important, for example, to create an annual bag of sufficient structural hours as the body expands. I also want to remember that the normal price, the normal price of an extraordinary hour, today..., an hour of an extraordinary squad ride is worth disset_euros. I'm saying this because I know the citizenship of this country too. And, therefore, we ask that you make the bag of extraordinary hours, but also increasing, updating the price of extraordinary time. Naturally, that is present before the year ends the strategic project« Barcelona, safe city. Then, there is a second part of the motion that speaks of internal questions: as the said, the disappearance of the Institutional Security Area, which we repeatedly believe, therefore, absolutely unnecessary; to charge an audit also on the dispatchers of the Division of Internal Affairs, a division also of which we have many doubts of its functioning, councillor. And, in the third place, the movement is talking about police coordination. I think it's an absolutely normal thing, that we usually talk about coordinating, that coordination is already producing, but that there are always elements of better and, therefore, this coordination between all the bones and security forces can always be improved. Talk... the only novelty I've seen is that it's about making a face-to-face operational meeting of all these cops with a quarterly periodicity. I, in fourth place, talks about convening the Security Board. And lastly, you say that the Squad Mousses need to have the necessary human and material resources, which we have also said in this Parliament many times. It's for this reason that we're going to raise the seat and all its points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.156.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Maria Sirvent, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.157.0	Well, good afternoon. Mrs García, who presented this motion for a resolution, when she defended it, spoke of totalitarianism « sinister, violent and classist. For us, what is sinister is to run over people in the form of dispersal; what is sinister is to let the extreme right and a clear complicity between the fascism and the Squadron Mossos, which we have seen clearly; it is also sinister to shoot foam a few meters from the demonstrators, violating all the protocols and all the internal rules, and what is already the wax of what is sinister is that Councilman Buch does not seem to repeat the words congruence, "opportunity and proportionality as a cry, when here there is neither congruence nor opportunity nor proportionality in police actions. And we repeat it, Mr. Buch, that's what everyone sees. What is violent is to serve rubber balls when they are banned for this very Parliament since the year 2014 and that this has produced four people who have lost their eyes. What's classy is that he's persecuted and he's criminalizing the veins that his body has to defend them when they get them out of the house because they can't afford his house and the system defends the speculators. We will not work with you to generate a criminalizing account of those who fight against all oppressions. Let's hope our Catalonian companies don't either. I to the lady Valley : case Scala, 1978; Núria Cadenes, 1988; operation Garzón, 1992; the five young people of the Terrassa ETTs, 1998; the case Torà and the Tres de Gràcia, 2002; commando Dixan, 2003; Núria Portulas, 2007; the supposed coordinated anarchist groups, 2016; Tamara Carrasco, 2018. The National Court also instrumentalized the crime of terrorism in these cases. These people finally proved innocent. No recognition, no repair, no guarantees of non-repetition.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.158.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it's the return of Congresswoman Núria Picas, of the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.159.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. MPs, MPs, we find ourselves this week that we all have our eyes fixed on the security features and their actions, and, incidentally, we find ourselves with a motion on security policies. From the outset, tell you that our group will reject this young man, not because, obviously, we do not want to take measures to improve the security of our country, which we want to do so – it is clear that we want a safe country – but because the security model of the People's Party, as you know, is not the security model that we share or what we need to guide to improve our policies. Nor will we build the police model from lies and exaggerations. Let us remember that report invented by some irresponsible politicians about the catanas in the city of Barcelona and the magnification of crime in the city does not take place weeks ago. Nor will we make it urgent that we move away from our own planning, in the long run, well-functioning and real. On the first point, we are offered strategies of redistribution and reinforcement, when they are already being done. We were able to see this morning with the approval of the Law Decree for 750 new seats at the Cos de Mossos, among other strategic reassignments. For what it does to the reorganisation, in addition to the Pla d'Estiu, especially designed for the Catalan coast in the summer periods of maximum influx, we find the Pla stratègica for Barcelona, which is in elaboration, and Pla de scoc in Sant Adrià, among other reinforcements and coordinations at the local level with municipalities. On the second point, you accuse this young man that the Mosses are a politicized thing. You want to know what a political thing is? So I'm listening to the speech that was made on October 9th by the Lord, General Garrido to Sant Andreu de la Barca, and you'll know what a political speech is on the part of the Civil Guard, where even the whole Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. [[Greetings.]] Do you know what's going on? That, simply, today, who has the presidency does not like them – below the veil; forgive it –; once more they would like to disassemble the institution because who rules this institution does not think like you. On the third point, we were asked for coordination between police units when, under the People's Party government, the Mossos were not integrated into the Intelligence Centre against Terrorism, and they did not do so until a year later, and it was not until two years later that they put a little bit on Interpol. And now we're in coordination, we're in coordination. This Parliament has already expressed its position on the actions of these police officers, and just a few days ago it called for the withdrawal of the effects of the Civil Guard of Catalonia precisely for its persecution of political and social collections, and for it to be completely unnecessary at the time of guaranteeing citizen security. Moreover, this week, the National Police Cos proved unable to complete standards and protocols, mandated for this Parliament, and have served rubber drivers without scrupulousness, with total impunity. And you know what, Mrs. Garcia? We also have these images etched; there are four people who will carry them etched to their face for the rest of their lives. We don't need precise coordination with who with his presence generates unravelling. The police performance of these days has not been adequate in many moments, and it has already been said that it will be necessary to clean up responsibilities. The Catalan police, the Mossos d'Esquadra, must be a democratic police, of which we, all citizens, must feel proud, and must be perceived as guaranteeing our rights and freedoms. And this has been a week of enormous complexity, full of repression and threats; it's been a week where we've been immersed in a democratic anomaly. Last week began with a lot of violence, an unjust 100-year-old rape of convicting innocent people. We are clear that violence is not the way to demand justice, but violence will never be the way to restore order. For all this, as I said, we would vote against your proposal. I remind you that our security model wants to be a community model, comprehensive and with strategies of prevention and mediation, and in no case before the repression that you now desire more than ever. They'd want a cop I subdue and punish. We want governments that follow and talk. Sister and talk. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.160.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Deputy Jordi Munell, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.161.0	Thank you, Vice-President Costa. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, honourable councillor. Well, we find ourselves with another young man who focuses on the Mossos d'Esquadra, with the excuse of security in Catalonia, as a few weeks ago, we also had another one from the Citizens' Group. They make these motions, the union groups, serve to get here at the Faristol and to talk and to have public opinion of the words they make serve when they are here, huh? Beyond what the House strictly says, when they are here before us they speak of chaos, fire, terrorism and explosion, wounds, barricades, violence, hatred, politicized security. Violence, rape, terrorism, independence... It's like, an organized report, a storytelling, which they say today in marketing policies, huh? – to go talking, that something is left, eh? and try to associate continuously, therefore, the independence cause, the process of sovereignty of our people, with terrorism, violence, hatred. It's a fabricated story. A climax that all the union parties have agreed, with state support, or even with the press leaders who are close to the rule, to speak to and speak to this message. That's what we're reporting. Independence, our cause, has never been or will be violent. We condemn all the violence, as we have said over and over again. This young man was written before what he spent last week, certainly. But, unfortunately, he was already talking to us about a poor distribution of the Squad Coast, he was talking to us about his politicization, instability, lack of legitimacy in the performance. They were talking to us about auditing, and so they were questioning their division of internal matters. They asked us to improve coordination and did not talk about coordinating the Squad Mosos, they neglected! They were talking about providing us with more available media, oh! If they're already available... the same sentence told us. That is to say, another excuse to return here to the Faristol of this whole story of trying to link terrorism, explosion, hatred with the independence cause. That's not stigmatizing, how did Congressman Fernández say before? Isn't that about destabilizing using verbs that try, so apparently empowering, redistributing, creating, strengthening? They're saying they're not. As was also the case with the previous young man, we also remember, the People's Party in this case, who are neglecting the themes in this young man. If they really want to empower the Squadron Mosses, our integral police, they are neglecting the 700_millions that the State has kept us for many years, both in the PP era and in the PSOE era. That's not what they're talking about, and we don't feel like talking when they're there in Congress or when they're in Madrid. Nor do they speak to us, more broadly, of the 1,400_millions, therefore, that this summer, this month of August, therefore, we denounced, or the 400_millions of VAT, which would allow, among other things, to equip our entire police force with more material and mediums. That's not what they're talking about, and we don't even feel like they're claiming it, do we? What we do feel they are talking about, often, is to apply the National Security Act or to apply another 155 permanent ones. That's why we feel like they're talking about it, huh? Nor do they remember that for a time they vetoed the acquisition of weapons extended to the Mossos d'Esquadra in the midst of terrorist alert 4. That's not what they're talking about, that need to defend the city, huh? We talk, we talk about getting better, but they neglect many things. They don't talk about the difficulties that the Cos de Mossos has in accessing international or national databases, do they? As has already been said enough when we talk, therefore, about what happened tragically on August 17, 2017. To access not only the bases of Europol or terrorism, but also the bases of data, for example, of transit dispatchers, the data of the centres of worship, data of foreign bases, data of dispatches of minors, data of the basis of justice, prison dispatches. And all of it, in a terrorist 4-alert scene. And all, too, about repeated petitions to apply the National Security Law. Neither do they talk about the escape process of the Mossos Cos d'Esquadra. More than 70 heads and officers of the integral police of Catalonia accused in the cause that weighs on Major Trapero, of rebellion, but also their high ranks; more than seventy accused persons. That's a real deal, or plot, or climax, or storytelling, huh? , to dismantle the integral police of Catalonia, accusing her of rebellion, accusing her of being unprofessional, accusing her of being politicized. That's not what they're talking about. And you have set the accomplices, first promoters and then needed to pull this dismantling forward. And that's not what they're talking about. So, obviously, as you can see, we will vote against this motion, but this vote is not a vote, but it is a vote for the full police in Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.162.0	You're out of here, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.163.0	...a vote that yes to the security of Catalonia, and a vote that yes, as the Councillor said yesterday, to empower the police with majors...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.164.0	Ahabi, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.165.0	... effective and with greater economic capability. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.166.0	In the last place, to pronounce on the exams, has the new word the deputy Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.167.0	Okay. Tell them, to the Socialist Party, that we very much appreciate their own exposure to gathering this young man, which they have explained so well. We've accepted Ciutadans's emena. Two items, one transactional and one accepted, and one not, indefinitely. And, from Catalonia to Comú We have accepted the slogan, but I don't know if we are pened, because they see its intervention this morning, the treatment they give to the Mossos d'Esquadra, and the permanent criminalization of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra that makes its parliamentary group, it is likely that this group, that of the People's Party, prefers that you don't pick us up, because we don't have this view of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, or of the task of chief police officer, as you do. No criminalizer, no repressor, nothing I've assembled. Maybe it's worth a thought. Together for Catalonia and the Republican Left: it was very clear to us. You, neither external hours, extraordinary, nor new deployment for the criminal increase, nor call of the Security Board, nor tools or instruments when we saw this week that even all the moves were riding motorcycle helmets in place of all the tools and stresses that need anti-disturbing. We understand that, because you, what they do is they serve the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad A piece of bait, because you want to serve the body and the handling of the body so that the assumptions are collected, both the common and the CUP lords. For another band– for another band, too–, tell the CUP lords: the truth is that what is sinister is to come here to the Faristol after having destroyed theirs from our game at hammers. That's a sinister thing to do. [[Some applause.]] And what's really sad – what's really sad – is that I still have the pleasure of saying that they don't pick up this young man, when their ex-fellows have kids...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.168.0	Congresswoman... time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.169.0	...the Squad Mousses.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.170.0	Thank you. We called for a vote. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.171.0	Yes, to ask for a separate vote from point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.172.0	Any more petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Let's vote, then, the first point of this young man. And then we'll vote on the rest. The vote on point number 1 begins. In the first point of this motion there was a tie, 65 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstention. We shall therefore return to the vote. Let's go back to voting number one. The vote begins. There was a new tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. Now, what I would be looking for is to leave a margin of time, and call for a vote, which I don't know whether to call it or not, whether there are all the Members and Members who have been present. We make a call to the vote and we'll wait a few minutes. [[Long break.]] Well, let's go back to voting for that number one point. The vote begins. In the production of a third coat again, this point declines, and, therefore, does not approve. Let's move on to the rest of the young man. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Silence... The remainder of the motion was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the violation of fundamental rights]] [[302-00148/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, the split point, which is the motion following the question to the Government about the violation of the fundamental rights, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word the deputy lady Marta Vilalta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.173.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. We didn't want to make this young man, because we wanted to make him feel like he didn't make it. Because we would have wished that this political judgment that we have seen had never been celebrated. And we would have wanted no repressive actions or political persecution to have taken place. We also wanted there to be no arrests and political pressures, no exiles or exiles. And what we wanted to talk about here today, what we wanted to say is that we live in a fully democratic country, where the democratic principle is respected and the guarantee of fundamental rights is exquisite. On, before a political challenge and a democratic demand to decide the future collection as many years ago we ask for a good part of Catalonia's citizenship..., on, before this democratic demand, the State, the Government of the State, first of the People's Party and after the PSOE, has been at political height. But this has not happened, and we are ahead of one of the biggest historical mistakes in the Spanish State: that of having sentenced to almost a hundred years in prison some people for their political ideas. After a political trial, an arbitrary process in the mark of a general case against independence. And no, don't tell me they're guilty because there's a sentence, don't tell me they're hit, like many times, too often, we feel it here. We're victims of revenge. In fact, 70 percent of the population doesn't think they should be in jail. And no, they're not telling me that we're going to respect court decisions, so we could say that, and we would do that if we were in a power-sharing framework as we wanted to be, and in a full and advanced democracy framework, but that's not it. Because a full democracy is not because it repeats it to its political leaders, nor because it explains a video of a marketing campaign; a full democracy is when it allows pluralism and debate, when it is responsive to the requests of the citizenry and uses the law as a mechanism to channel these requests, does not use the law as a hammer to suppress them. A full democracy is because it places the protection of the fundamental rights as the cornerstone of its judicial system. A full democracy is not automatic, but it has to work every day and it has to age every day because it is. And the Spanish State has resigned from its functions of being a truly full democracy. This is why we present today this young man, in whom we reject the feeling of practically a hundred years, that it is the fruit of a political judgment that pursues a political idea, which defends independence. And, in fact, the facts are clear, which is why we also consider that we are in this framework of an arbitrary process, in which the contradictory debate and the possibility of contrasting facts with witness statements have been prevented. A process that we have seen as trumped up in multiple lawsuits and jurisdictions that proves that it is indeed a general cause, in which instrumental use and abuse of the crime of rebellion has been made, that crime that they say there was violence that could never be proved. Well, yes, only that of the U of October, the 1st of October, the one that was promoted by the police units of the State. And as long as they accused us of the crime of rebellion, they tried to suspend the deputies of this Parliament and keep them in prison, despite the pronouncements of the UN Arbitrary Detention Task Force, which jumped to the chest to complete their resolution, their recommendation and not leave them at liberty. An arbitrary procedure in which the European institutions did not respect each other, which had to be dealt with in a prejudicial matter. And, therefore, before this violation and criminalization, we are urging the Government of the Generality to defend the civil rights of the citizenry and to accompany those citizens that these days are also seeing their rights being violated in protests and demonstrations on the streets and, moreover, what we are urging the Government of the State – we are calling the Government of the State – to assume that this is a political conflict and that, therefore, it must be resolved by political means. It's very simple: sit and talk, sweat and talk. And every time we're more people who claim it, institutions and entities, here and there. Sister and talk. And force the State to sweat and talk, if at the moment it wants to sweat and talk. We're defending this solution that goes through the dialog. A dialog we've never met, but we won't get tired of insisting and insisting. And, therefore, that the judicialization and policeization of the conflict is paralyzed, which is to speak, to dialogue, to negotiate, to decide, to exercise fully democraticly, as the Spanish State is not doing now. Why are you here for democracy? Why are you doing them for democracy? Democracy is not for us, and precisely because we are independent, we will not give up being independent, precisely because we know that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.174.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.175.0	... independence – I finish, president – is irreversible, precisely because we bet on the dialogue path, we place them to hold the political courage and the necessary responsibility: sit and talk. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.176.0	Before we proceed with the debate, I am sure that the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Can have withdrawn its views. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Member of Parliament, Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós, continues and defends the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.177.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you will advise, in the first place you would like to address a heartfelt embrace to all the ways of Vimbodí, Espuga and Montblanc, of which I soca nadiu, giving the condol to people for their missing family member and accompanying also in the patience the people of the family members who have not yet been found. One hundred years of sentence for Vice President Junqueras, Romeva, Turull, Bassa, Forn and Rull, for the President of this Parliament, Carme Forcadell, and for the President of Ómnium and the ANC, Cuixart and Sánchez. One hundred years of condemnation for 2,286,217 Catalans that we went to vote U of October. After the success of 9-N, the State dedicated itself exclusively to building a pressurized legal framework to respond to the democratic settlement of independence. The State did not propose to respond democratically, but exclusively with the application of the enemy's criminal right. It changed the criminal type of terrorism, it made the "bit law," which the PSOE promised to repeal, and we are still waiting for it, the law of national security, it reformed the law of the judiciary limiting the application and effect of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in anticipation of future convictions. It has also reformed the law of the Constitutional Court by providing it with executive powers that do not have parallels in countries around us. To a democratic proposal to give sight to the citizenry, he only prepared a response with Civil Guard, National Police Corps, prosecutors, judges and prisoners. In this trial, the right to the default court for the law, the right to a fair trial, the right to the second instance, the right to the presumption of innocence, the right to defence and the right to use its own language was violated. She's convicted of a rape-free sedition and an embezzlement without pay. And, besides, now all can be seditious, any manifestation can be criminalized. During the trial – and before it was referred – the U.N. Arbitrary Detention Working Group demanded the immediate release of political prisoners and this was not complete for the State, although it was linked to the U.N. membership. The charge of rebellion was only an instrumental use to deprive elected deputies of their political rights and, through them, through this deprivation of rights, their voters, altering the majority of the cambers. Only a political judgment can emerge from a political judgment. This feeling where the most pages should be dedicated to a criminal feeling that is to the fact, is devoted a great number of pages to denying the existence of the right to self-determination, to talking about the right to self-determination, and that's politics. Obviously, this right to self-determination should be the object of dialogue, negotiation and agreement and, in change, is intended to be resolved with a criminal conviction. Mr Fernández said the other day that Spain is one of the best democracies in the world. But not everyone sees it that way, because the Council of Europe will send an investigation mission to assess the case of the Catalan policies undertaken, as it does in the case of the Kurdish MPs in Turkey. They're always talking about the law, but they're just pushing it to limit rights, never to buy them, and the right is the tool to give solutions to conflicts. The law is never the limit of the political dialogue, it's the dialogue, the negotiation, the agreement and the pact to come to it, and that's what it's doing here, in the parliaments. Pedro Sánchez, instead of talking, goes where, with this mother of this Valeria, with whom he should speak it is with the President of the Generality that he is the one who has democratic legitimacy, ascribed to this Parliament, to represent the people of Catalonia. But they don't have enough not to talk, they also want to prevent it from being spoken here in this Parliament. The PSOE, the government of the PSOE specifically, has had requests sent to the Constitutional Court because in this Parliament it is not able to speak, to tarnish it. And we'll keep talking about the right to self-determination and we'll keep failing the monarchy. Because, yes, today they get a lot from the exhumation of Franco's cadaver, but in change, they want to prevent us from reproving their heir here. [[Greetings.]] The State wanted to finally solve the Catalan issue with the judgment of the 2010 Statute, a statute approved in reference for the people of Catalonia and which, in turn, a trumped-up copy for the Constitutional Court is applying here a law, for the lovers of the law, that the people of Catalonia has not voted. This is his democracy, a democracy where he wants citizenship, where he votes citizenship is never legal. And that feeling had us where we were today, and I'm telling them they've failed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.178.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.179.0	It's over, President. From all sides, Le Monde, the Financial Times, the businessmen, the unions, the porter of the Red do not understand that it is not spoken. Of the prison I have a charge for you: the extended hand, we speak. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.180.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.181.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, after repeated attacks against the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra by Mr. Torra and the separatist parties– We can, including – with the collaboration of the officials of the regime and the public propaganda media, in the mouth of journalists and Tertulians, I want to close the support of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, especially to the agents of Brimo and ARRO, and to the agents of the National Police and Civil Guard, who have stood up against the aldaruls of those who with methods and actions of extreme violence second the thesis that today present us in the final text of this motion. [[Greetings.]] Another brick in the world, another totxo on the wall. This wall that separatist populism has been rising in Catalonia for many years and that, after the journey started by Arthur Mas, has ended up breaking the cohabitation and dividing the Catalans. You, lords and lords of the separatist bench, practice a populism that makes victimism the main distinctive sign. You want to present yourself as the perfect victims, that's what you want to make us all believe, even though they're often more likely to be the boxers of public liberties. But you're not, and you're not, the victims, you or the convicts for giving away now just a couple of years ago a head start to democracy. Let's talk about democracy. The division of powers is one of the main distinct signs of true democracies. That is to say, as much as they want to deny it, Spain is one of the few full democracies in the world. Catalonia enjoys full democracy and forms part of the European Union thanks to the fact that it is a consubstantial part of Spain. And that's done, don't say it. We, all of us, as public servants, as members of this autonomous Parliament, as a democratic institution, are fully bound by the Constitution, by the State, by the Rules of Parliament and by the conjunction of legislation that conform to our democratic order, as a whole. And, therefore, our first obligation is to scrupulously respect the division of powers as one of the basic pillars of our democracy. I stop deceiving, deceiving people and becoming the victim of the exercise of public power, of the Government of the Generality, of this Parliament as one of the foundational institutions of our autonomous community, is populism, reactionary populism with victimism. Populism, which we know very well in Europe, is often the antecedent of authoritarianism and dictatorships. [[Greetings.]] I repeat, stop deceiving people and make the victim. If the convictions for the Supreme Court's ruling that this young man wants to attack can be considered vicissile, it is only from the barroera and anti-democratic action of those who have waited for them to break democracy, from some groups of this Parliament to the separatist elite that has moved the sons, from associations that have served as leaders of the masses. And, naturally, who most victimized them, the fled Puigdemont. There's no way to fool people. The feeling is the consequence of facts that were eaten by concrete people they had, and it seems that they still have, as an objective to end democracy. A feeling of the Supreme that we are bound to respect, to abide and to complete. This young man should never have discussed it. Since it has been debated, it should have done with the text that we have presented from Citizens as a whole. As representatives of all Catalans, they cannot deceive them and make them believe that they have the legitimacy to break the democratic order from which our capacity for political representation emanates. We must respect democracy, the division of powers and judicial sentiments, whether we like it or not. What you have done, ladies and gentlemen of the separatist groups, and what you have to do is all different, you must demand that Mr. Torra's government let go of the revolt and return to the path of democracy. Once I'm forgiven for the evil they've already done to Catalan society, they're democrats without any nuance or plegue, but they stop deceiving people. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.182.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to fix his position, he has the first word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Junts per Avançar, Mr Ferran Pedret. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.183.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, we have heard in the previous motion one of the speakers – the truth is that I don't remember who said it now – talking about storytelling – of Ciutadans –, in a motion on security issues, is to say, the narrative, the construction of the report. And that's something that's been abounding in public debate in Catalonia for the past few years. Nor is it that we follow especially original with this. The construction of reports is what has always dominated politics, but with special intensity in the past decade. And in the interventions that have preceded me there are also attempts to build a report, which is not intended to be built with this intervention or with these interventions, perhaps pointed out; there were already the elements pointed out in interventions and previous speeches. For example, the idea that the impulse to popular support that has gained the idea of Catalonia's independence is something that arises from the feeling of the State. With the data of the same Center of Study of Opinion at hand is quite questionable this argument. Mr. Campdepadrós, right after the feeling of the State, which was the political space of which you are heresy ruled this country with the parliamentary support of the People's Party of Alicia Sánchez-Camacho, and for quite some time, until in a spring of 2011, after being, let's say, practicing austerity policies with more fun than anyone else – let's say that after passing on, I suppose, the Lady Sánchez-Camacho to the Government that later formed, of Mr. Rajoy –... until a spring was set for the popular response to the shortcuts and to austerity and to the simplicity that already pointed out to a clear corruption of the political space of which you were all heresy, was it true that you were all heresy? That's a technicality of these, isn't it? , but a shift from the public conversation of the socio-economic axis to the national one, with a clamorous success; it is to say that the political space that had been hegemonic in Catalan nationalism and that had never made the banner of independence as an immediate political objective passed to do so, as a runaway forward, trying to ride a movement that certainly existed and came from before and had made a process of accumulation of forces, at least from the consultations of Arenys, for example, in 2006. But it was very successful; certainly well watered and well fed by the fact of doing so from institutional power, with a good service of communication media that reproduces the discourses that are made from institutional power. But, certainly, very well organized, very mobilized, very disciplined, admirable from many points of view, but this does not necessarily make it necessary for many people in Catalonia to share it. So, if we're going to talk about things that we wouldn't want to happen, I think we could come to terms with things that we wouldn't want to happen. Surely in the way we explain the most recent facts there would be many differences still. I believe that we have not acquired enough historical perspective to be able to agree on questions that – we understand perfectly – are enormously painful. Because this is also worth saying: there has been a reaction on the part of this country's media and policy right to the feeling of overly lax and all, and considering it... And I invite anyone to think about who's supposed to spend a private week of freedom, huh? When we're talking about years, we're not talking about jokes or anything. Therefore, we fully understand this pain which is reflected in the text they propose today and which they put to the vote. Now, as I said in my previous intervention this very late, I invite you, saving the distances that will be saved, to understand the feeling of threat, of pain, that has occurred in many citizens and citizens of this country who do not share their political project and who saw how late in 2017 they tried to impose it regardless of the constitutional, statutory, parliamentary regulations, and above all regardless of the political will of which the half of the country is. It is impossible to pretend to build an independent Catalan state against the political will of more than half the citizens of Catalonia. This – this – is what we need to talk about. Obviously, as we have said on more than one occasion, we do not pretend to have his return or to stop proposing his political objectives; what we ask him is that he respects the mechanisms of which we have tried to change the laws, if he does, because, if he does not, if he does not respect this, there will be a lot of people, a lot of citizens and citizens of Catalonia who understand, every time you say "we will make it again, instead of a demand for a political idea, a threat to the political and social situation in which they would like to be able to resolve conflicts. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.184.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.185.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. We want to begin by expressing our rebuff to the Supreme Court's ruling that condemns hundreds of years' imprisonment of social leaders and independent politicians. We consider that this feeling is unfair, and we consider it for various reasons: humanly, as it affects these people, as it has already affected these two years of unwarranted temporary detention to their families, their friendships, their party and organization partners; politically, because we believe that they extend the solutions and deepen in the emotional frenzy on a large part of the Catalan society with Spain, and also legally, for many arguments, arguments that we will not detail them all, but that there are many well-known jurists and professors who are giving them, such as Joaquin Urías, such as Javier Pérez-Royo or the same Vicky Rosell, who are judged and who have suffered in their own righteousness. It is true, and many of these lawyers also say, that the one that passed on 6 and 7 September was illegal, was a mistake; it was a mistake and we also have to be able to recognise it: it was to force and speed up legislative mechanisms and it was to let go of the half of Catalonia. And that happened. And that's what we heard a lot of. And we also ask that the independent groups understand where they are also part of this pain that was just now mentioned by Congressman Pedret. It was a mistake, and I think it's time, we think it's time to recognize it and rule out that it's going to happen again. That's why we've done a question where it was asked that you go through the dialog and reject unilaterality. We believe that unilaterality also blocks, nor is it a solution. In this case, it was not accepted. We don't know if the Republican Left Group, which says it bets on the dial... but after that has not completely rejected unilaterality. This has been a mistake for us. But it's that the feeling goes beyond that. Sentence doesn't just judge that. The sentence was to make a super-restrictive reading of the concept of sedition, which, as was also said, affects protest rights and protest rights. And we've had communications from many organizations and social associations saying how concerned they are with the antecedent that this interpretation may assume, because it opens the door to the criminalization of protest and dissent and the right to protest. But I would like to remind you that we do come from an anticipated precedent, that it was also the year..., well, it originated in 2011 with the "Atturam el Parlament", when the provincial hearing acquitted the people who were accused of the "Atturam el Parlament" and it was this chamber, through its Bureau, which appealed to the Supreme Court against that sentence, with the votes of many of the deputies who are now complaining of the Supreme and with the votes of many of those who are now saying that they will respect the Supreme Court's judgments and that they will have to act. So they didn't have a problem saying that that sentence wasn't meant to be met, that it didn't have any sense, and it ran. And he fell into the hands of Mr. Marchena; he fell into the hands of Mr. Marchena, who interpreted a new legal concept, which is environmental intimidation, which is: you may not have done it but you are there where it is ugly and therefore you have some responsibility in which it passed. They fell three years, to those people, which they did was to exercise the right to protest, because this chamber, with votes in favour of Convergence, of the Socialist Party and forbearance of the Republican Left, brought those people to the Supreme Court. We believe that this sentence marks a time and a time in our history and that we have to work because I have opened a new stage, which cannot continue to be marked for the prosecution and for the repetition of errors. Despite the difficulties and impotence, this new phase must be marked by the freedom of the leaders engaged, first of all, in order to be able to talk to them as well and to find solutions and the dialogue with them. And we want to end by saying what is the answer of In Comú We can to the feeling: solidarity with the condemned and their families; the compromise to promote all political, institutional and legal initiatives necessary to facilitate the release of prisoners from prison and the return of exiles; we want to denounce the consequences that this feeling has on the civil and political rights of the community of citizenship, such as the right to protest, expression, freedom of association and political dissent; we reiterate our commitment to defending the rights and freedoms, and we show the re-building to the judicialization of a political conflict that will only be resolved through a political path. And we insist on making a call to all political parties in Catalonia and Spain to sit in a table and dialogue, because any decision and any solution has to pass to vote on a new relationship agreement between Catalonia and Spain. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.186.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.187.0	Thank you, President. Well, today, a day when the State adds up a day more without political responses and only with repression; today, a day more when autonomy continues to prove itself powerless to give any political response to the situation; a day when popular mobilization continues to feel the key factor, the phone factor, every day more powerful; a day when the common people inform us that they have now decided that the solution to more than 2 million people living in self-determination is a new case of Catalonia between Spain. Brilliant idea! Congratulations, huh? Congratulations. [[Greetings.]] You, in fact, are clearly and in the process of being the left that such a time after the 15-M wanted to drop the rule to be a left that settles quietly to be the left of the rule. Things are getting louder. One day, a PSOE Justice Minister is offering the dictator a plea. Doing a criminal? - To a pheasant? - Mm-hmm. To a genocidal? A franchisor is the only one who deserves to be mocked and rebuffed. [[Greetings.]] Scars and rebuffs. And we, reconciliation with Francoism, never! And this is the basis of the 78th rule of which you are representatives: the franchise pact. Well, one day, Mr. Pere Aragonès is going to try to be an interlocutor for a government of the PSOE that doesn't want to be an interlocutor if they don't, huh? One day, the Republican Left certainly presents to us a motion that is of the least, that is of the lowest, because to defend the fundamental rights that must be done is to claim self-determination. This is the answer to claim fundamental rights, amnesty, sovereignty, civil and political rights. And to defend them, permanent mobilization and civil disobedience, internationalization of the conflict and fission of repression, also that of the Mossos, also that of Brimo. And before that, I insist, you present us with a motion of the least, of the least, that, of course, we cannot vote that no, eh? We cannot vote that no, but we will abstain in those points, 4a and 4.c, in which you again insist on the dialog without claiming conflict, disobedience and confrontation as the only way to make an effective dialog possible. And with a lot of gain we'll abstain at point 5, where you say that we need to help the citizenry claim civil rights. You, with one hand, the government, send Brimo to stun the people and then, with another hand, from Parliament, inform them about how to claim civil rights. Therefore, we will refrain from it with force. And before the sentence, recidivism. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.188.0	Thank you. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.189.0	Thank you, President. The truth is that the text that is put to debate and vote seems more like a motion of provocation than really a genuine question, since it is nothing more than a combination of falsehoods, sectarianism and prejudices in equal parts. Look, accusing the President of the Supreme Court Chamber of having obstructed the right of contradiction of the twelve persons convicted in the trial, in a procedure that has not only been public, but that we have been able to follow practically all of them on television every day, is a joke that does not deserve further comment. The convicts have had a fair trial. That they do not share the sentences is another debate; there are also people who do not share it in the opposite direction, and that is not why we are going to question the procedure. Here there has been neither general cause against independence; here there is a condemnation against a number of people who have been judged and condemned not by their ideas, but by seriously skipping the existing legality, legality, by the way, very similar to that of the democratic countries in our environment. On the other hand, to enter into debate on the facts proved or not sure it would be a very interesting debate, but our job as Members is neither to make a court nor to amend the plan, that for that there are already other judicial bodies. And let alone point out to the President of the Chamber as you do; first of all, respect and compliance with the sentence. And, of course, common sense, because making calls to disobedience as you do, starting with Mr Torra, I think it goes in a radically different direction. Spain is a democratic nation and its police, too, all of them. They are the guarantee to preserve public order and constitutional order. The sentences can be shared or not, but they are obeyed, there are no irresponsible calls for disobedience, and violence is always condemned – always. Violence, in any case, can never be an instrument for achieving political objectives. You had a great opportunity to have condemned her without reservation and without excuses and you haven't. Every attack on the police, in fact, is an attack on democracy. And, in any case and to conclude, Mr President, make one thing clear, because I, too, am going to send a message: the People's Party is a governing party in Spain and very soon we are going to be again and we will never – never – sit down and negotiate any aspect that has to do with the territorial unity or the national sovereignty of the Spaniards, precisely because the vast majority of us want to continue to have the firm will to be free and equal Spaniards, and you are not going to end our right. So, assume it, stop fooling yourself, stop fooling the separatists of feeling, because they will save you frustration and suffering. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.190.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, the deputy Marta Vilalta has a two-minute turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.191.0	Well, thank you very much. On the items, we have accepted and traded them from Juntes per Catalunya, which are included in the text containing them. In relation to the Socialist Party, Congressman Pedret is not related, nor narrative; it is dialect. It's very simple. Therefore, if they want dialogue, if they are willing to dialogue and if we can build a democratic solution, follow and dialogue, give support to these points of the motion and follow and dialogue. They're still talking. It's that it's very easy, its chair has always been empty. Therefore, fill it up and keep talking. And it's fine to talk about empathy, but how they think all those citizens feel when the answer to the dialog that has been repeated lately is always no, no, and no. Or when they see that the Socialist Party's response to the PSOE is the same as that of the PP. For what he does to the papers of the Ciutadans Group, with his counter-motion that they have presented to us, we can only say that they live in a parallel world, in his particular Matrix – to speak in his own language. What they wanted to report are facts that are replaced by this film, as we also see that they do through videos the campaigns of Global Spain, and, in any case, what we see is how they speak of "tempts against democracy and coexistence, but they do not explain what. Because if they do and we go to the detail, the only one we see is how there are no guarantees, no misappropriation, no spending, and no harassment. The thing that made me more grateful is what they did at the point where we asked for the dialog; not even that they are willing to vote, bet for the dialog. Not even that. And, on the other hand, they've introduced us to something I don't know. How do I answer if it's not talking? How are you willing to represent the citizens you want to represent without talking to? Ah, we do know that, because this day we saw how Albert Rivera said that if he was president, he would take over all the independents. And where's the division of powers here, that a political leader says he'll take all the leaders, in this case, you're independent? Where's the power division here? [[Greetings.]] And finally, to the commons, today we have seen here a prelude to the electoral campaign. Don't worry, we will continue to defend all democratic lives...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.192.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.193.0	...betting for the dialog and making a call once more here for the sit and talk, for learning and talking, and for building a democratic solution, effectively, based on self-determination...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.194.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.195.0	...the amnesty and the defense of the rights and freedoms. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.196.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I have read Mr Riera's statement calling for a separate vote on points 4a, 4.c and 5. Can it be? 4a, 4.c and 5, huh? [[Pause.]] Any more petitions? Yes, ma'am Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.197.0	Yes; separate vote from points 1a, 1.c, 2, 3a and 4.b, which could be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.198.0	I repeated to see if I pointed it right. Mrs. Segovia, 1a, 1.c, 2, 3a and 4.b? Together, huh? This package. [[Pause.]] Okay. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos Pedret ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.199.0	For some of Mrs. Vilalta's allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.200.0	Mr. Pedret, you've been greeted...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.201.0	He's made a direct remark.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.202.0	Yes, yes, but you have intervened, you have spoken among all of you; therefore, I believe that in this case you do not respond.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.203.0	Not even out of contradiction, I'm not allowed to say?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.204.0	In this case they don't match, Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.205.0	Don't you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-24-4102.206.0	Let's get to the vote. We will vote on this first package that asked for the group of commons. Listen, 1a, 1.c, 2, 3a and 4.b. Let's go vote on those points. The vote begins. These points were approved by 65 votes to 57, with 8 abstentions. We're voting now on point 4a–4a. The vote begins. Point 4.a_has been approved by 69 votes to 57, with 4 abstentions. Let's go now and vote point 4.c. The vote begins. Point 4.c was approved by 69 votes to 57, with 4 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 5. The vote begins. The five-point was approved by 68 votes to 58, with 4 abstentions. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet... quiet, that's a little bit left. We're voting for the rest of the young man. The remainder of the motion following the question to the Government about the Government's visit on the violation of the fundamental rights has been approved by 72 votes in favour, 57 against, no abstention and a Member present who has not voted. There are no more points of the order of the day; therefore, the session rises. Thank you.
