ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.1.0	[[Good morning, let's start the session.]] [[The list of questions to answer orally to the Ple is included in the Ple's folder. In accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first item on the order of the day of this plenary session.]] [[I would also like to say to you that yesterday's Spokesman's Board agreed to add a new point, relating to the proposal to change the name of the Commission for Education, which will be co-substantiated with the second point of the order of today's day.]] [[Before following, however, let me welcome the new Member of Parliament, Mrs Esperança García, who joins the Parliament of Catalonia again in the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Welcome back, Mrs. Garcia.]] [[We also follow them in the sense that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, the deputies Raquel Sans and Adriana Delgado, for reasons of motherhood, have delegated their vote to the deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and that the deputies Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva have appointed the deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise their parliamentary rights.]] [[Ask the Government about special work centres]] [[310-00107/12]] [[Let's start, then, with the first point of the order of the day, which are the questions with oral answer to the Government. The first question is about the special work centres. Formulated by the Gruppo Parlamentari Republicà, Mrs Marta Vilalta asks the question. When he wants to.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.276.0	Yeah, good morning. Good morning, Counselor. As you know, and citizenship too, the Republican Group is working to build a country with equal opportunities for all people and a socially just country; and that also means an inclusive country. And that's what I want to talk to him about and ask the question today. Special work centres, popularly known as CETs, are tools for integrating disabled people into the ordinary work system. In fact, they represent a model for social and labour integration, and in the last thirty years, in fact, since they were born, Catalonia has been the most advanced territory in the social inclusion of the collection, and has also been a referent for the rest of the State. And in this, there is much to see – and we would also like to highlight – the effort and commitment of entities, professionals and families. Unfortunately, however, and you are not well aware, this model has rejected various threats to the length of the last few years, linked above all to the repeated infra-financing on the part of the Spanish State. The last of these consequences is the impact on CETs of the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage. Let it be said that, obviously, it is a measure that we celebrate, that we congratulate, but this decision has generated and generates great concern in the sector, because it has not come accompanied by the necessary support measures, and the CETs cannot assume this increase if there is no supplementary presuppositional endowment. Look, counselor, if we are specifically calling for the Catalan Republic and we are defending that this is the best project for the citizens of this country, with the full capacity to decide, with all the skills and tools, it is also for questions like this, it is also for that reason, so that we can take decisions and take into account all the consequences, also in this topic, who know how we are of the reality and the needs of the people, and not resign from the responsibility that surrounds us, as we sometimes see that the Spanish State does. Counselor, I transferred these reflections to you because we have recently met with the entities, because we have also been moved by the concerns of the families, and therefore we would like to know which actions the Government has taken to ensure that these people, who are also vulnerable people, do not lose their jobs and are able to maintain their jobs; also as it intends to cope with the impact of the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, and what the Government will do to continue to maintain and drive a model that is inclusive and inclusive through the CETs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.2.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of Mr. Chakir El Homrani, Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.3.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, as you have pointed out, the rise in interprofessional minimum wage is good news. It is news that it was necessary and that, even from our point of view, it should be more distressed. And it is worth remembering that we still do not complete the European Social Charter, which says that the minimum interprofessional wage should be 60 % of the average wage to the country of reference. From here on, the minimum wage must be added to all the derivatives it has to respect. And here there's a concern, a concern about the fabric of special work centres, a concern about vulnerable people, because feeling and security is that they didn't take into account all the derivatives involved in the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage. Right now, there's a negit, a very important negit, especially of the people most vulnerable to whom they serve the special work centres, of the entities that manage them, around how they're going to cope with this rise in the minimum wage. According to the regulations, for which the State is responsible, and according to this regulation also finance, the State has to finance 50_percent of the minimum interprofessional wage for the special work centres. It is not currently financing at 50_per_cent, it is financing less than 25_per_cent, 50_million, when we need, for the number of people who have CETs, it is 125_million. We're the only territory where we're close, 35_million euros. And what we have before us is a very clear decision, which is to increase the amount of money we spend on 7 million dollars, which represents 22 per cent, which is the one that has raised the minimum wage. And this is taking responsibility for a decision that is not ours, but we are aware that not only with our response will we be able to give security to the CETs. That the State will finally say how much these subsidies will increase and that the increases will be around the same percentage as the increase in the minimum wage. Especially, because the concern has to be the vulnerable people, because, if not, good news will have a derivative, which will be the increase in the lives of people with disabilities, and that we cannot afford. At the same time, it should be noted that always – always, always – the derivatives must be taken into account, especially in the most vulnerable people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.4.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the external explanations on the judiciary to independence]] [[310-00108/12]] The next question, on the external explanations on the judiciary to independence, formulated for the Parliamentary Group Republicà, asks the question Mr Ferran Civit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.5.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, as you know, today is the day on Thursday, « the magazine that comes out on Wednesdays and the magazine that they confiscate to Soto del Real. As well, "full democracy means the primacy of human rights, full democracy means political pluralism, full democracy means that there are no political prisoners, since the facts describe Spain as a full, free, reliable, peaceful and tolerant democracy. I also know « the misinformation, which has played a very important role in the political conflict in Catalonia, since « many images that were spread, in reality were fakes, images that corresponded to actions carried out in the Chile of Pinochet. It is true that "it is offensive that political prisoners should be considered to be incarcerated independence leaders, or to speak of exiles, who enjoy a golden retreat. Because it is known to everyone that ‘there are many people who want to raise borders and walls between and within countries, serving as lies, reinterpretations and news and falsifications. We cannot allow consensus to be destroyed on what freedom, democracy, what it means to decide in a democratic country. And that's why we've called this campaign, this is the real Spain, real Spain. Real Spain, com sap tothom, de« you are going to go out equal, with harm and without harm, « the fucking ballots, « putting the fuck as if there was no tomorrow, thanks, tot plegat, com bet tothom ja sap, « to which the Spanish Constitution has given us the right framework to channel the longest period of freedoms, social development and economic prosperity in our history. Councillor, in foreign affairs, "let us act for them. [[Rialles.]] And as "there is nothing more valuable than the truth, counselor, what is its capteniment to explain what is going on in Catalonia to the world and to explain the judgment that our independent companies are going to suffer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.6.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word has the word Mr. Alfred Bosch, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.7.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Member. Let's explain the truth, the whole truth and more than the truth. And the truth is, this is a political trial against political prisoners. And that's because he's dealing with things like seditious and rebellious, which would involve rape, and there wasn't any rape on the part of the government of Catalonia at the time of organizing the October 1, 2017 referendum. And, in addition, organizing a referendum was decriminalized for the Spanish State with a law that was passed in 2005 at the Congress of Deputies. There's no crime. Plus, listen, it's that political prisoners are in prison, and their fellow exiles from the same government, who have appeared before European courts, are in freedom. Because these European courts have not entered into this political debate, because these European courts consider that they are not guilty of crimes of which they in Europe, in the rest of Europe, consider that they are not guilty. So obviously we're ahead of a political trial, and we're explaining the truth with all calmness, with all firmness. And as we explain the truth, we don't have to invent marketing campaigns, we don't have to go and explain what real Spain is, insisting that there is democracy, that there is judicial independence... If they explain it for something, because they feel insecure before the international opinion, because they think that they have to hide their own fever. And why do they do what no one should do, what it's like to explain to the BBC that they're getting fake news, huh? , and they did not explain the truth, that the BBC did not explain the truth on October 1, 2017 and that France Press did not explain the truth on October 1, 2017. And they have to go and explain things like that. We do not need to make a marketing campaign in which the Spanish government will spend more than €1 million of all taxpayers to try to hide the truth. The only thing we have to do is go and explain the truth and reality of our country. The announcement that in the coming weeks I will go to the main European capitals to explain the truth of this process and to explain to them that this is a political judgment: to communication media, ambassadors, institutions, think tanks, foundations, international organizations, we will explain to everyone, with all transparency, with all tranquility, the truth...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.8.0	Counselor, time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.9.0	...because that's a... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.10.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the system of protection from childhood and adolescence]] [[310-00103/12]] The next question is about the system of protection from childhood and adolescence. Formulated for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, asks the question Mrs Naomi de la Calle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.11.0	Counsellor, what is your commitment to combating bad practices and corruption in resource management in your department?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.12.0	To answer the word, the advisor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.13.0	Thank you, President. Member, the compromise of this department and the government's compromise against any type of bad practice that can be demonstrated is absolute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.14.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.15.0	Well, we've already seen that your commitment is the same as that of your predecessor, former Lower Counselor, i.e. none. Look, Mr. Ricard Calvo was councillor d'Esquerra at Girona City Hall while holding different management positions in a network of guardianship centres management companies. When you appointed him Director General of DGAIA, he requested an exemption. From Citizens we suspected that under the position of director he could be incurring a conflict of interest, favoring the network of companies to which he was linked, and gives the chance that we found the document [[the speaker the show]] which demonstrated that Mr. Ricard Calvo was involved in the process of awarding several million-dollar contracts to these companies. And when I asked former Constable Bassa she denied it in this very Parliament. This document was personally given in July 2017 to the ex-counsellor, in this same Chamber, following an inquiry. We call for Mr Calvo's resignation and for the government to clear the shadow of corruption. We tried to get him to come by to explain, but he didn't come to give his face. And you didn't just shut up, but tried to cover it up by ceasing this gentleman in mid-August. And do you know where he went? The same business network he would have favored. It has been two years, and you have neither investigated nor given us any explanation of something as serious as profiting from child protection. And what a coincidence! , in addition, another of those benefiting from these bad practices, which is currently investigating justice, is also a former Esquerra advisor. Let's see, with the rotating doors! Some of us are beginning to understand their zero commitment to child protection, whose interest seems to be reduced to the profit of their party. And it's all right with rotating doors. And it's good to keep sucking from the boat. Corruption always comes at a cost to the citizen. And, look, by paying only 300_euros a month to foster families, and instead almost 4,000 to the centers, it is normal for them to fail to comply with the Children's Act, which says that children must be in foster families as a priority. Because you are interested in marginalizing reception in families to continue to award contracts to centers with which it seems that some people with your party's notebook would be profiting already from the time of the tripartite. What a pain you have mounted and what a pain – what a pity – what you are doing with the child protection system! How quickly you have learned from Convergence! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.16.0	To answer, again, the word has the counselor. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.17.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, let's go by order. First of all, we are aware, however, as I have explained on more than one occasion, that to which we came out on the news we opened a confidential information consignor, and that this confidential information consignor had to be paralyzed, as the law says, because there is a judicial investigation, there is an investigation by the Anti-Fraud Office and there is an investigation into the environment of the foundation protectorate. And what marks the law is that when a judicial investigation takes place, the confidential information document must be paralyzed and whoever is close to having the resolution is in the judicial sphere. And we, in this sense, complete the law and do what marks the law. Secondly, we are fully aware that all the information we have received from research areas has passed. We are the first interested in the fact that, as it was better, this situation is clear. And that's why we've given all the information that's asked, and we'll keep giving it, I'll just miss it. Now, in this case, we'll give it to whoever has the authority, which is, in this sense, the justice he's investigating, because we can't do it any other way. Secondly, I would remind you that you can look at the open data portal, which you can remember that Constellera Bassa approved the Decree Law 3/2016, which means that there was-there was an element of transparency, around the public contract, much, much higher. And there are the recognitions in various aspects. And it's as easy as looking at the open data portal and seeing how there was the contraction. From here on, we will continue to work together, we would only be missing, because we are the first interested in solving this situation. And if there is any element of irregularity, we will act with absolute agreement and consequence of respect. Also remember at this point that the accreditation orders, the decree, are systems that we are developing, that what they allow is a maximum transparency in the field of public contract.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.18.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the linguistic projects of the educational centres]] [[310-00104/12]] The next question is about the linguistic projects of the educational centres. Formulated for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, asks the question Mrs Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.19.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Counselor, Citizens have been asking for language projects at the centre for a year and there is no way to give them to us. The last thing was in November, give us a list of three thousand links for us to look for. I guess we weren't supposed to, because you don't know us, because it's a lot, a lot of work, but you were wrong because the Members of the Citizens' Education Committee are looking for you one by one in the three-thousand links you gave us. And the result has been devastating: in 80_per_cent of the cases the linguistic center projects are not on the websites. That means that if a family is going to look for those they are not, even though you here in parliamentary office assured me that they were, and that is why you were giving me the three-thousand links instead of the three-thousand language projects of center. Faced with this there are three options: a, you lie; b, you don't know anything and the inspectors take your hair, and c, a and b are correct. What is the right answer, Mr. Counsellor? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.20.0	To answer the word, the education advisor, Mr. Josep Bargalló. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.21.0	Thank you, Mr. President. The linguistic projects of the centre are all at the disposal of the educational community and the inspection has not rejected any complaint of any family that has been refused. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.22.0	To answer that question, you have the word, again, the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.23.0	Yes, of course with the children of hostages who are going to devote themselves to making even more complaints. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's... it's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.24.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.25.0	Look, Mr. Counselor. You told the press that you didn't really have to hang up the three-thousand language projects centered on the web until September. I mean, it gives teachers a 14-month period to do a job that takes a little_minute to do. "Boys, come on, fourteen months, see if you can find a minute. Man, that's trying to make teachers lazy. Counselor, stop treating teachers as lazy and stop lying. You lie because linguistic immersion is a broken commodity that no longer buys anyone, that only the nationalists buy it. While in the rest of the autonomous communities you are betting on having more than one vehicle language, here you remain anchored in your night-and-decade model of the 1980s with a single vehicle language. The question is: Mr. Counsellor, are you going to continue to support that late-night model that doesn't want most Catalans, as all the polls tell us, or are you going to approve the proposed citizens' law with three vehicular languages which is what is being done in schools across Spain and around the world and which is what most Catalans want? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.26.0	There's the word, again, the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.27.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I can assure you that I have never been able to approve, support a Ciutadans law proposal in the field of language policy, because I do not know your language policy proposals beyond the destruction of our school's language model. [[Greetings.]] I don't know about it, not one – not one. And the only proposal you have in educational policy is the destruction of our school's language model. And the media hub that turns around uses the theme of linguistic projects for, distorting, manipulating and falsely giving names – donating names – as did some Madrid press this week and setting out the table of choices that they don't deserve. The Department of Education will defend the teacher and the centers of unjust and unjust attacks from those who have no other will but to destroy the coexistence of our school. We're against rape, and we're against his rape and his media. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.28.0	The next question is... [[Ask the Government about the security services of the high offices of the Generality]] [[310-00105/12]] ...about the security services of the other branches of the Generality. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet! Formulated for the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, has the word to ask the question Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.29.0	Good morning, Counselor. We have known from the press that you are creating a special police unit outside the rest of the Mossos Corps that you do not seem to understand even the same agents. Could you explain to us today what is the purpose of this unity?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.30.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Miquel Buch, Counsellor d'Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.31.0	The purpose is nothing but to protect the president, the presidential buildings, as the competitions mark. And it's not done on the margins of the police, because precisely they're cops who are dedicated to doing this job.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.32.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.33.0	Mr Buch, I thought you were going to confirm to me what they are saying by the media that they are also going to proceed to protect the former Presidents of the Generalitat. And you will understand that you skip us, Mrs Artadi, all the alarms when you speak of the former presidents, because when you speak of a life worthy of the former presidents we know that you speak of Mr Puigdemont's golden retreat. And when you talk about the security of the former presidents, we and millions of Catalans read the Praetorian guard of a fugitive from justice. Even less suspicious, Mr. Buch, but it is that you have done, as long as you have been able – you try – a partisan use of the Mossos, and you try to influence the demonstrations according to what your sign is to authorize them or not, you threaten the citizens from the interior council if you withdraw yellow bonds, but what I was talking about is the presidents and the former presidents. Look, Mr. Buch, I ask you: Is Catalan money being used to finance the escape of a person persecuted for justice? Look, Mr. Lluís Escolà and Miquel, this is, Mr. Buch, the advisor appointed on 25 July, his personal advisor who is casually traveling around the world alongside Mr. Puigdemont by... France, Luxembourg, Belgium, Holland, Denmark, Germany, Scotland and Sweden... in September. In October, his advisor, his personal advisor, to whom we pay the salary of a commissioner 64,000 euros cancellations among all Catalans, in the Faroe Islands. Were you there or was Mr. Puigdemont there? In Waterloo, Switzerland, we are everywhere paying Catalans to Mr. Puigdemont's private guard, Mr. Buch. Look, in any normal government this would be a scandal that would motivate the fall of the government, but it is that in Catalonia it seems that everything is free. For I say to you, Mr Buch, it is not you who are unpunished, we must all respect the laws. And we are going to make you respect them here in Parliament and when it is also necessary in the courts. Misappropriation of funds, Mr. Buch. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.34.0	Time's up, Mr. Carrizosa. There's the word, again, the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.35.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. If you say that you respect the law, obviously you will know that there is a law that obliges, the law of Parliament, huh? – which is all of you – which obliges the Government of Catalonia to grant protection to the representatives of the Government of Catalonia [[applause]] o the President. Because Catalonia..., and I would appreciate it if you would refer in this way, Catalonia are always presidents, they are not expressive. You say he knows about the press. So, man, I recommend that you read the decrees we approve of the government, right? , which are published and here he will be much more informed than we approve. And if the BOE is read it will also see that the decree of institutional security of the Government of Catalonia, approved last week, is strictly the same as the decree approved for Moncloa the year 2007 or 2008– the year 2007 or the year 2008. [[Widow's remorse.]] Therefore, I believe that, to you, the one who bites them, the one who knows them hard is that in Catalonia we are endowed with structures, for example, of state, depending on our competences and that they give guarantee, in this case, to the President of the Generality and to whom, in this case, the Secretary, General, of the Presidency, decides. Strictly the same as the one that passes to Moncloa, the one that passes to France, the one that passes to England, the one that passes to other states; okay? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.36.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.37.0	Therefore, the day you make the same speech that you made here today the face at the Congress or some of your company the face at the Congress we will see that Ciutadans is concerned about the same. While you are making a speech here and at the Congress you are absolutely making another one, what proves is that you are the only one who wants to carry yourself are the structures of which this country has equipped itself and are the ones that have brought us where we are. Therefore, the institutional security of the President, of the Expressionists, who are already guaranteeing it – who are already guaranteeing it – as Moncloa does with the Expressionists of the State, we will continue to do it, we will do it in the best possible way, even though you know it hard. And I finish, if they're so worried about the law, I think they should be worried about the position of a prosecutor, yesterday, of the National Court, saying that justice in Catalonia is not impartial. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.38.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about the protocol on sexual rapes in lleure spaces]] [[310-00101/12]] The next question is about the protocol of sexual rapes in lleure spaces, formulated for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya. The question is asked by Mrs Marta Madrenas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.39.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President and Councillors. Counselor Buch, in fact, we are often aware of serious cases of rapes, sexual assaults, abuse, one of which was the rape of La Manada, when all alarms jumped respect sexual assaults in more festive contexts. This week, unfortunately, we also got mixed up with another multiple rape of a girl in Sabadell. The male bosses are well present among the young people. Day after day we know news that tells us that we are not in front of a party, because a murderer or a rape there is a daily rape, a reality that affects every day children, girls and women of our towns and cities. It is clear that these attacks are occurring because our society still presents a structural inequality between men and women. Listen: "If you want to have a free sex life, keep it, but what you can't do is go around insinuating and provoking all the guys and then pretend to be told nothing. Some people seem to be asking for it. You know what I'm saying? Who's looking, find out. This is the statement of a young man gathered in a report on male violence. And unfortunately we have to recognize that they're not unusual people. In fact, they are reinforcing masclistic attitudes, reinforced also by an anti-feminist speech that bombards social networks and media and that, which is harder, has been made a place in political institutions through extreme right-wing parties. We must face this situation and give a cross-cutting response in all spheres, even though today I wanted to refer only to the police sphere. Counselor, a long time ago he committed himself to preparing a document in this sense and has already been presented. We congratulate him. We value very positively the Protocol against Sexual Violence in the Outer Spaces that the Government has set aside and that sets out how to act before sexual violence in the outer space. I would like to acknowledge, however, that I would like to do so, the antecedents of this type of action such as the protocols against gender-based attacks and the points created and promoted for feminists and who are redefined and which, through local administrations, have also made very powerful policies. Counselor, could you explain to us how it will be possible to extend this protocol to all the territories, and, obviously, I suppose counting on the entities of the territories, the feminist entities and the liles points? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.40.0	To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.41.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. In fact, the protocol forms part of one of the objectives of this Government; it is concretely an objective of the Government to eradicate all forms of male-based violence that harm the lives of women. And from this goal of government, from the Department of the Interior we have to improve the security of people and intensify the protection of victims. Therefore, with these objectives we design the Platform for Security against Sexual Violence in the Spaces of the Ocean. In July we committed ourselves, to do so; this month of generation we presented it. We have not done it alone; we have done it together various government departments, companies of the oci and security sector, the local world, the municipalist entities have been there, entities that work male violence, Mossos d'Esquadra, local police, port police... Therefore, it has been a group of people who have been working on this protocol to eradicate this male-based violence in our country. And how did we do it? So we have given content to interpretative criteria of non-criminal sexual settlement. To hear us, that code that served to twist it and to accuse of seditious and rebellious people who only put the ballot boxes on the table, it seems that the Spanish State does not serve to pursue male violence. What have we done here in Catalonia? So we've taken over and we've typified the acts of administrative infraction, which is something that we competently can do, because we don't get away with the assaults, because, and Mrs. Artadi said, it's starting to touch a woman's ass and it's ending with violence. So, we need to eradicate from the very first moment this way of acting by some people. We'll do it with prevention, we'll do it with reaction, we'll train thirty thousand people from Catalonia in the security field, especially, but also with the points; obviously the local world is working together with us and it's going to work, and thanks to them we can also eradicate this chakra we're suffering. Thank you. Good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.42.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about the commemoration of death two years ago of the occitanist Robèrt Lafont]] [[310-00102/12]] The next question is about the commemoration of death two years ago by Occitanist Robèrt Lafont. Asks the question, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Anna Geli. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.43.0	President, Members, Members..., Conselhéra Borràs, in 2010 eth Parliament of Catalonia passed was Occitan Law, spiders in Aran. Cádir said that he didn't have an ethos or a People's Party in Ciutadan, that badly, and even when it came to languages, we found his solidarity. It was all Occitan and a linguistic heritage that we did not dream of, but that we had the time to have it seen among us and that we deserved to be protected in all Airaus: educative, social, administrative or cultural. At this point, Aran and his only ethos seem to be from all of Catalonia where he was occitan and his language will guide us in schools, by the way. Eth collection of masters, tanben writers, historians, linguists, musicians, activists, associations and political tanbens, also all kinds of difficulties and politics used, a host and an army in living clothes was not sonque language, but tanben eth Conselh Generau, institution since four hundred years of history, abolished in 1834 by the Bourbon kings and re-established in 91 pera Generalitat. It was Spanish Constitution not explicitly contemplate it was Arane reality or Occitan. Spain was also a European Charter for Minority Languages. For this reason, I would advise you, that from Juntas to Catalonia, we trust the Government of the Republic of Moldova to present this document. Referents of this Occitan culture, begun by it was lyrical of the troubadors and found, in all passing through Mossen Josèp Condò Sambeat, prolific writing of this Val d'Aran, and eth Madeish Frederic Mistral, first Nobel Prize laurel of literature, or in all passing through Occitan-Catholic figures, like Robèrt Lafont, among others, are that very rich and now transversalized of this Occitan language, which has been persecuted and smitten by segles. Counselor, we were aware of his sensitivities to the Occitan culture. Now Madeish we find ourselves at a historical moment where it is cultures and languages without being fully unprotected by the incursion of centralist policies and policies throughout Europe, so much in the Spanish State, although it was now an extreme right. That is why we are asking him to do so, that ten years ago he died of Lafont and a hundred years ago of Condò, who he is in the position of the Government to respect now placed in value this language and culture, which goes from Bordeaux to the Italian Valades and which he owns in Val d'Aran. And we ask him, therefore, to commit himself to unfolding was the Law of Aranes, Occitan of Aran. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.44.0	To answer, has the word Laura Borràs, Culture Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.45.0	Are they feeling it? Yeah? [[Pause.]] Eth 24 de Junh que ven hará ten ans dera mort de Robert Lafont : poet, novelist, assagist, linguist, sociolinguist, ome de théatre, ideológ, historian, medievalist, humanist, and peth dessous de tout activist que luis claré que langue et bastiment sociau, politique et démocratie anauen de brace. The source incarnates as arrested and afraidly occinatocatalan. In them there was a multitude of recognizances that came to life as soon as they died, as was Crotz de Sant Jordi, Er an 87, and it was creation, Er an 2010, deth Prèmi Robert Lafont, this Generalitat de Catalonha, although it was intended to recognise and reward people or entities who have separated themselves for defense, projection and promotion of this Occitan language, named spiders in Aran. It was his figure that allowed to re-enter his era table eth debat deua Europa des pòbles, based on cooperation, it was democracy, it was paz and it was cultural diversity, in contrast now Europa of the centralist states, like now didie. We need to make it possible to become aware of the institutional, social and cultural links between Catalan and Occitan languages and cultures, and to strengthen them in august links. Er an Lafont tanben vò be a useful instrument to be added to the complete development of the Occitan Law, spiders in Aran, approved for August Parliament the year 2010 for the vast majority. Er an Lafont we to allow to reverberate that in 2019 so long a hundred years will die of Josèp Condò, poet and write spiders of transcendence in Aran. We do not forget that Catalonia is only the territory of the Spanish State and one of the European Union's politics which is in agreement with the Madeish level of officiality to three different languages. And I will end with a quote from Robèrt Lafont in Catalan, who says: "Just as there is a region of the Middle East, left behind for the war and waiting for justice, there is no other region that we could call Euro-Mediterranean, where occitans and Catalans have a future to invent, with only civic weapons. That's why we're working. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.46.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about the performance of the squadron mosss in the denunciations]] [[310-00106/12]] The next question is about the performance of the Squadron Mosses in the denunciations, formulated for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. Ask the question, Mrs. Maria Sirvent. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.47.0	Well, Mr. Counselor, so today we want to talk to you on behalf of the Barri Union of the Poble-sec. And it's that the veins want to know if you have the peace of mind knowing that Catalonia is producing sixty daily complaints, if you are proud to captivate the outcome of shame. Veins want to know if you imagine that one day you will arrive home with one of the ‘killers willing to do it out by mediating intimidation and violence. Counselor, would you mind? So these "killers exist in this country, and they do so under the name of the company Desokupa, a mafia made up of neo-Nazis, paramilitaries and professionals of violence who have posed themselves to the service of speculators with the aim of unlawfully expelling those who cannot deal with those who are abusive. If you passed this on to yourself and your family, what would you do, Counselor? Many, and you certainly do too, before these facts tricked the Mossos hoping that the defenses of this barbarity and this brutality. But did he really answer here? He answered the Barri Union, he answered the self-organized vein. And what happened? What did the veins find? They found it with absolute institutional complicity. What did the agents do? [[The oratora shows some photographs to the chamber.]] This was done by the agents: entering the house by force, without court order, facilitating their entry. They have put themselves in the service of the « thugs, Mr. Counsellor. The veins lived with rage and impotence an absolute complicity between the mafia and the police, which humiliated them, assaulted them and left them on the street. What are you going to do, Mr. Counselor, to stop this criminal collaboration?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.48.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.49.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. I said it last week in the Internal Affairs Committee, which touched on this subject, and I say it again: the police have no capacity to call anyone in this country; who decides to call a family or some people in a habitation is a judge and in any case the police is accompanying the judicial committee and ensuring their safety. With regard to complicity with the Desokupa enterprise, I can deny it from date to date – Desokupa or whatever –, deny it, and there the police identify all the persons acting or who are there at the time of the denunciation, among them..., follow the Desokupa enterprise, follow the same occupants or stay here, and always act for judicial purposes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.50.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.51.0	Look, counselor, I don't know if you're telling me that the police were given court orders because you worked with the "Desokupa thugs." That wasn't it. I didn't lie anymore. Everybody knows. You're seen by the way, counselor, like Daniel Esteve's godfather, mafia. Mr. Buch, the repression and police brutality are the day-to-day of your department, and that's what counts with the government's complicity, which, along with stopping it, knows what you've done? He has decided to reward him and perpetuate him in power to defend bankers and to defend bexists. But the vein is already organized and the day that this one rises up and channels this rage, we assure you that it will change the banner and you will be the ones who will tend to: to lose your privileges, to lose the ability to live...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.52.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.53.0	...at the expense of the misery of the people... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.54.0	Counselor, when you have the word to answer again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.55.0	I deny him the major of the speech he's made now, because he knows it's fake, he knows about envelopes. And if you're a Member of this Parliament, you know how the laws work in this country. And if he doesn't know, he's got to learn what he knows and he doesn't know. Because, I repeat, the police... – I don't need to get up here and teach me pictures; I see them –, the police don't call anyone, the police act by court order, and when there is a judge who orders a call the police that it is, at the request of the judicial committee, to accompany them and guarantee protection in the case that you can see conflict. But we're in the middle; we're not the ones who decide. And I already explained to him last week that in the case that he is drawn from a vulnerable family, there is an agreement, that I personally signed with the president of the Catalan Association of Municipis, justice and the local world, with which, if there is any vulnerable family, the jutjat would have to contact the assembly, the assembly would have to make a report of its vulnerability and the jutjat would have to make a decision; but it was not binding but it would have to make a decision, and the joint was in the case that there would be a disclaimer from a possible vulnerable family and, therefore, could act preventively. Therefore, the protocol is done. What the police do is accompany the committee, when it is at the request of the committee, in the case that the committee decides it and why the denunciation has followed a judicial procedure. Therefore, they do not point or signify more the Squad's Mossos, which do the work required of judicial institutions. The moves don't disown, sir, for as much as you would like, the moves don't disown; the moves act and defend the judicial committee. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.56.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the future of the National Council of Culture and Arts]] [[310-00100/12]] The next question is about the future of the National Council of Culture and Arts, formulated by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar. The question is asked by Mr Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.57.0	President, good morning; counsel, since the 21st generation, the Conca is in a situation of absolute paralysis of which we have been warning for a long time. It does not have the minimum quorum and enough to agree, not so much alone to meet, and the culprit, counsel, the ultimate and principal culprit is the same president of the Generality. Counselor, I ask him if he shares this analysis and what he intends to do, with the utmost urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.58.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Culture Advisor, Mrs. Laura Borràs. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.59.0	Thank you, President. Mr. MP, I don't share this analysis, but you know, in the Committee on Culture, we committed ourselves to making the renewal of the Conca and, therefore, that was the 30th generation, and that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.60.0	Thank you, Counselor. In answer, he has the word, again, the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.61.0	Thank you. Counsel, the irregular situation in which the Conca is found affects, as you know, the quorum necessary to adopt valid agreements for the plenary, since, for its constitution, the presence of four of its members, as a minimum, including the presidency, is necessary. And, from the 21st generation, the plenary of the Conca is formed by only three of its seven members. That means that from this day on, he can't even agree to meet. And, I repeat, counsel, the culprit of this situation is the inaction, the leaven in its functions, in its responsibilities and in its competences of the President of the Generality, who can bring the Conca to its de facto disappearance. Article 3 of the Conca is quite explicit and clear: "The Presidency of the Generality must draw up the proposal for a list of members of the Conca Council. Frankly, I resisted believing that his strategy was precisely that the Conca was destroyed by starvation. I would advise you that this very morning we will present to the Registry of the Parliament of Catalonia a proposal for an urgent and read-only law that resolves this unusual situation not foreseen in the Law of the Conca, and ask the assembly of parliamentary groups to facilitate the processing, as urgently as possible, of this proposal of the law. Today's press, Counselor, speaks that, in a few days, the renewal of the Conca can take place. Look, Councilman Puig's been a year and a half since he asked parliamentary groups to put names on the table and, as far as I know, all parliamentary groups were going to do the job. Therefore, the pilot is not, at all, at the mercy of parliamentary groups. A year and a half ago, we were going to submit names for the renewal of the members of the Conca and the warmest is in the water. So, okay, fanciful, we agree. So good we can solve it in a few days, but while we think it's essential...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.62.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.63.0	...the modification of the law. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.64.0	To answer, again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.65.0	Congressman, I don't know what you like to call Councilman Puig, he doesn't share the same information. I don't know if he went to see him and talked to him about it, because it's not the same information he communicates to me, that we're in permanent contact. But, Mr. Bruguera, unlike what you seem to be expressing here with your performance, you know perfectly well that the problem of the Conca is not just the renewal of its members, which, as I said, we have a PR that was approved on the 30th day of generation and we have undertaken to renew ourselves. The problem of the Conca is much deeper and goes much further, concretely, 11 years ago and, precisely for this reason, the Parliament, from which the Conca is based, ultimately created working groups, which you know perfectly well, because, three years ago, as I understand it, has participated in these meetings and have always reached the same conclusion: that it was necessary to continue reflecting on the Conca. So, so I got to the councillors, and I took the stand that six councillors before I had worked to resolve it, I met with the plenary members to debate, reflect, analyze and find the best possible solution to a shared problem that led to the resignation of eleven of the twelve councillors and that did not allow them to deploy either the Mark or the Contract program in all these years, in which, yes, I know, they have worked, and I thank their president and their director and all the councillors of the current plenary for their maximum involvement, readiness and collaboration. At the length of eight months that we are in the Council, we have met eight times with the plenary of the Conca with the aim of closing the committee of study that the Parliament had not culminated. And you know that I've done this job, and you know that I've shared these conclusions with you, and you know that I've worked to reach a consensus that, besides, I think we can get, because, Mr. Bruguera, when we speak privately we understand each other, but I'm still surprised by these old political tics, that the fan comes here to gesture and blame this government and to personify it in the figure of the President of the Generality. Surely, it would have been a lot to corresponsabilize yourself. But, well, you're worried about what's most urgent, that's who, and I already told him we'd work it out. I'm worried about what's important, what to do. So you're very calm, the plenary of the Conca will be renovated in an imminent way, but you and I know that this is not the problem of the Conca. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.66.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about its housing strategy]] [[310-00109/12]] The next question is about the strategy in housing, formulated for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The question is posed by Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.67.0	Yes, thank you. Counselor, we have read to the press that is preparing a decree of measures to guarantee access to housing. We would like to ask you when your approval is planned and what measures it contains.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.68.0	To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.69.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, at the press and other forums, I, here in the Parliament of Catalonia, on other occasions, have explained that, indeed, the Government of the Generalitat has intended to bring forward a decree of urgent measures to act on various questions of housing policies in which it is essential for us to act immediately. In fact, he will remember that, in one of the questions, not if with you yourself or with some inquiry, we talked, including, to deal with a topic that is the duration of the lloger contracts, also hoping that the Government of the State will make some regulation that allows you to increase this minimum duration. We see that this is widening and we, while we are actually preparing a decree that will deal with various issues and that we intend to bring to the approval of the Government and to validation from here, the Parliament, later on, to the length of this first quarter of 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.70.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.71.0	Counselor, he didn't tell me the measurements. He told me when, he didn't tell me the measurements, he said he announced them again. Now it was very simple to take advantage of these two minutes and a half that I had to say the measurements, I guess they're guarded later. We believe that we are late, you know that we are late, it has been months since this Parliament approved a motion calling for urgent measures to guarantee the right of housing. There are less than 20 years to reach 2027, in which it is expected to arrive at 15_percent of suitable habitat and we are at 2_percent, so let's go later, we need speed up. We ask you not to do things alone either, this House also approved the inn under the National Pact for the Right to Housing, which has long since been unseen. In this fight I would find the gatherings and the social organizations, but neither did this happen. We have to demand valentia, we have to demand valentia for brave measures, that vagina to transform the housing model, the structure of the housing in Catalonia. Some valuable measures, which, as we read at the press, are being set up, such as allocating 30_per_cent to housing suitable for private promotions, I mean, we are glad that it now seems to be more receptive than when it was in the case of the city of Barcelona. We also want to know if they will stop investing in official sales protection habitats and will only make it available. These are also courageous measures. On regulating the price of the loguers, we want to know if they went further than symbolic measures, how to put in contracts which should be the price that the person should pay but who is paying double, or tax incentives, which, basically, benefit the great lords, the Socimes and the speculators. Counselor, will you make a record of empty floors? Do they initiate sanctioning expeditions for those entities that have empty floors, hundreds, thousands of empty floors? Will it apply the 24/2015 and will it place in the market expedients of expropriation of empty habitats, that do not fulfill its social function? They will be valuable at the time of investing resources, but resources of truth to reach the '1,5_percent of GDP and not the 0,2, that we are now? Because the figures we've seen for 2019 that have let us guess are not brave, they're conservative. Counselor, the 24/2015 says that no family can be denouncing to Catalonia, which is the community that has the most denunciations, without a housing alternative. This is the responsibility of his government. This, and don't put the moves on the side of companies like Desokupa, who deny families with violence. Let's just hope that... [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.72.0	Congresswoman, time's up. To answer, again, the word has the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.73.0	Thank you, President. Deputy. I recognize you, honourable Member, for your genuine interest and for your group in housing. In fact, often, I say, publicly, that much of the technical and legal thing working on housing issues in the assemblies and in the same Generality comes from its political environment, of which it was Initiative, now, the commons. But it's that you deny me, you constantly deny us. I ask you not to deny us this radical way, because it's painful for housing policies and it's painful for people, the good people that, from the Urban Habitat Secretary and from the Habitat Agency are doing a lot of work every day to benefit housing policies. Because you know we didn't have enough public park, we didn't have enough social programs to help with the emergency, we didn't have enough capacity to deal with certain housing policies. I ask you to help us, help us to bring forward this decree that we intend to present in this first quarter of 2019, ask them to help us, too, in the development of the territorial area of housing, ask them also to help us, in the near vicinity, for example, that they are better equipped with the famous national housing plans, that there is, therefore, all that there is to be in order to be able to recover the ability to reverse Catalonia and, above all, also to ask us to help us make good housing assumptions. The decree will contain valid measures, including, for example, the permanent qualification of dwellings or other measures which, along the own meso, we are degreasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.74.0	Counselor, time is running out. Thank you. So far, you've been asking the government oral questions. Let us now turn to the questions of the President of the Generality. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the analysis of The Economist that places Spain among the twenty full democracies in the world]] [[317-00058/12]] The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.75.0	Yes; thank you, President. How do you appreciate, Mr. Torra, that the Economist, despite his dauntingness, will re-place Spain as one of the only twenty full democracies in the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.76.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.77.0	From the outset, I would say that you were listening to the National Audience Prosecutor, who yesterday said that the courts in Catalonia cannot be impartial. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.78.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.79.0	Thank you, President. I see you need a mediator even for simple questions. Good. It is clear that your strategy, during all this time, is to discredit Spain and point to it as a dictatorship and it is clear that Mr Pedro Sánchez is no less to humiliate himself and to humiliate millions of Spaniards, millions of Catalans included, and it is normal because, at the end of the day, you put him. Spain, curious dictatorship, in which you put the dictator in a motion of censure. But, good. He said that Sanchez and Iceta don't care to humiliate themselves and humiliate us, but we don't, we don't, and so we're going to denounce the times when we need the unbearable cynicism that emanates in their accusations, because you're the first retaliated in the history of humanity that gets up every morning in an official car. You are the first reprisal in the history of humanity to charge 147,000 euros a year, twice as much as the president of the government of the alleged oppressor. You're the first reprisal in the history of humanity that you're having such a bad time that the first thing you did was raise your salary a 5-per-cent. What a dictatorship! Such suffering, yours! That's a hell of a jet, yours! Here, the only dictatorship is that which you want to impose here in Catalonia, threatening judges, politicians, prosecutors, civic entities, constantly blackmailing the governments of Spain, trying to see if you achieve independence, a kind of anti-democratic protectorate of compulsory nationalism, of one party and what is most important to you, of judicial impunity, and of friends, of the business sector of friends. Well, as much as Sanchez is humiliated and Mr. Iceta is joined, they're not going to get him. They're not going to get the protectorate, they're not going to get it, and they're not going to get it, not because of the repression that comes from outside, as they like to say, to make the victims, no. They have lost because millions of Catalans decided courageously a long time ago to say: "Enough is enough. Cruel fate yours, Mr. Torra. In the end it will turn out that beasts with human form, that people with tara in DNA, that inferior beings will defeat you. We've done it in the past. We are going to defeat them again, because ultimately the times we need to defend the rule of law and democracy, no matter how much Mr Sánchez humiliates himself. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.80.0	Congressman, time's up. To answer, has the word again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.81.0	In the first place, calmi's– calmi's–, when I came to the Parliament of Catalonia, calmi's. I recommend you, I don't know, spend a little bit of time in the Ciutadella Park, listen to a little bit of music, calm down 'if you use a tone and language to what we are used to in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] That's from the entrance. However, I am not surprised by his language and vocabulary, knowing that he is probably using the same expressions that President Aznar said on the air bridge the other day, of the "final battle against separatism". But this isn't warmaking, is it? We don't come to Parliament here to talk about war exploits. And now, when you spoke that "he has already beaten us well, I don't know, the subconscious perhaps must have betrayed. What's that supposed to mean? 1939? Is that what you meant by that? [[Greetings.]] He meant 1939, when did they defeat us? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.82.0	Deputy, you don't have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.83.0	I'm sure that's what you should be referring to. All right. Listen, look, lately it's been fashionable to quote classics. Plato : « The pitjor form of injustice is the simulated justice. And that's what's going on. It's the worst class of injustice. We're facing a mock trial, a mock trial, and that's what we're going to report all over the place. I've just been told by the Foreign Counselor. He will do so, and so will I, and President Puigdemont, and each of the members of the government, and be present in court, and we will take any opportunity we have to denounce to the world the violation of rights, the repression of the State and, above all, that is prevented from exercising the right to self-determination. This is a judgment against democracy and the right to self-determination, and our response will always be democratic and about the right to self-determination, which are our red lines. So, as Jordi Cuixart's friend Jordi Cuixart says very well, and the rest of the company, we are absolutely not defending ourselves from anything. We did the right thing, we were on the right side of the story and we were on the right side of the story. We're going to accuse the State of all this charade, to accuse the State of violating our rights and our freedoms, and that's what we're going to do all the time. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.84.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about the judiciary about the independence process, the right to decide and the judicialization of politics]] [[317-00061/12]] The following question asks the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão, Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.85.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, you know that our group is very critical with its government, with the Torra-Aragonese government, because it went now, because it does not fight against inequality, because it is unable to present social assumptions and because it gives more bands on the national issue. But, unfortunately, today we want to take advantage of this round of words, since we are at the door of an infamous trial, which should never be produced, to send a strong embrace and give all the support to the prisoners and political pressures of Catalonia that the proper days will face... [[Greetings.]] That the proper days will face the Supreme Court. With all the discrepancies and from the ideological difference, the one who is living in Catalonia right now should have thrown the face of shame at any Democrat. A situation of exceptionality that stems from a case made against independence, with a preventive prison that is unjust and unjustified, with accusations for crimes that are non-existent, as demonstrated by four European countries and more than a hundred criminal law professors; with institutional violence; with the prohibition of international observers; with constant threats of a permanent 155, that the last days were again demanding Bermúdez de Castro and that we are seeing as Catalan Civil Society, the president of the Catalan Civil Society is rejecting, because he supposes to pull more fully into the fire, and with a court with a clear lack of neutrality, that he has moved to the compa de Vox and that he will not forget, in this court, the better party to his electoral campaign. [[Some applause.]] In short, a deproposal and an anomaly that does not exist in Europe. We suffer the judicialization of politics and we also suffer a judicial dome that is politicized: pacts of miscarriages to divide the judiciary, reactionary feelings like those of La Manada, the Lord Cosidó talking about controlling the Supreme Court... This demonstrates the deterioration of an institution that should be closed in a state of law. That is why, before this decomposition, before this reaction of the state apparatuses, we Democrats must say to Catalonia, Spain, Europe and the world that the right to decide is not a crime and that defending democracy is not a crime. And that's why less quarrels, fewer courts and fewer threats and more politics, more dialogue and more democracy. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.86.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.87.0	Thank you, honourable Member, and I have never expressed in the most emotional way this thank you, honourable Member. I think we subscribe to all the government groups, and I think all the independent groups, your words. I mean, thank you very much. And I think that yesterday there was also this same feeling that we started to find ourselves, we started to find ourselves in a dialog table where we had transparency, confidence and I think that also the responsibility to tell them as much as the State was proposing to us how the Government of Catalonia proposed to the State, with your suggestions to also pull forward a more organized, more time-bound dialog table, where it is discussed in depth. Because dialing is a beautiful, beautiful word, but it's an empty word that we have to fill in. And yesterday you made some very interesting suggestions on this subject that, indeed, we are absolutely in agreement with. I absolutely subscribe to everything you have said: we are facing – I said with this expression – the intolerable. We live the intolerable, in Catalonia. We are living in a situation that should never have occurred, and this is happening to us day by day and above all now, before the court, this much-extended one, which seems to me to mean to this Parliament, the retreat, I am also, because before this court the unit of democrats is really a firm unit and an unquestionable unit. And this one, too, we'd like you to arrive, if you'll allow me, under the generality's presuppositions, and we've been talking to the vice president for the next few days, he'll make a counteroffer. Please, with the same attitude that we all had yesterday in the dialog table, let's go back to sitting, let's go back to debating, see if we can get to this point too. In any case, I insist, thank you very much for your words. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.88.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generality about the reasons for changing the President's security arrangements and the Generality's expressions and prioritising them to respect the citizen's security]] [[317-00057/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.89.0	Thank you, Mr. President. My question has to do with his powers, the powers of the Generality, and it is the following: who were the reasons to modify, at these times, the security devices of the Presidency and the expressions of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.90.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.91.0	Yes, thank you. It seems to me that the Inner Counselor has just explained it, but I will wait to see what his position is to finish him from giving our arguments as well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.92.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.93.0	President, the format of the questions to the Government is very ad libitum and I therefore admit the reply as a companion animal. But I didn't want to discuss how to organize the security of the presidency and the expressionists, but I did want to take advantage of this question to ask the government to prioritize security policies that address the real needs of the citizenry. Miri, a few days ago I held a meeting with all the police unions and also with the MosSOS Platform, and there were various questions, some of which are trade union demands that tend, I suppose, to fit in with the Police Council, but a concern that I do see with the obligation to move: the feeling of an excess of workload, the lack of efficiency and resources, sometimes also the feeling of lack of support, also the flight of police to the local police. And share this feeling – that within the Cos de Mossos, as the Councillor knows well, is very much – also with an increase in the perception of insecurity between the citizenry. And to govern is certainly to prioritize, is to decide, and from our point of view the priority was not so much to reform the area of security of the presidency but, in any case, the area of citizen security, that is, public policies aimed at improving the perception of security of the citizenry. And, therefore, we would very much like you to use your answer, if it is not too much to ask, to affirm the government's commitment to citizenship, the effort to recover as soon as possible the number of effects that were foreseen in the laws, and the commitment to support citizenship and the municipality where those outbreaks of insecurity have led, among other things, to the creation in some places of citizen security patrols, which we believe are not the best formula to address this issue. Therefore, President, I do not discuss his ability to organize, as I am pleased to say, the security services of the Presidency, but we would certainly like a major explicit commitment in favour of citizen security, which is everyone's. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.94.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, again the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.95.0	Yes, honourable Member, I do not believe in absolute that for the Decree of the Institutional Security Area the objectives of this Government have been changed in absolute terms, which are to guarantee the full security of this country's citizens. I would like to recall that, unfortunately, we are six years old without being able to make any promotion of Mossos d'Esquadra. You know perfectly well that this situation we just reversed, with a summons, so, what this government pulls forward, huh? You also know very well the outstanding debts we have from the State, 800_million euros pending on this issue. And, therefore, all this also needs to be taken into account to assess the situation in which we find ourselves. I, once more – I also did it on occasion..., when I 'asked myself that in an inquiry of the CUP –, I again close my commitment, my absolute support to the National Police of Catalonia, which are the Mossos d'Esquadra. They have all the support of the President, the Council and the Government, because they do the work – I said it then and I repeat it again –; they allow us to do our work, they guarantee the safety of us and all the citizens of Catalonia. Therefore, they have all my absolute confidence. On the subject that you commented on from the Institutional Security Area, I think the counselor has answered it perfectly. We have simply done what the Spanish State has already done in its time, or other countries around us. It's a technical criterion, huh? , and which is created to guarantee the security of the President of the Generality, the expressionists and the head of the Department of the Presidency, as well as the spaces they occupy. So let's replicate the model that states have, which is to give a different priority and treatment, because of their sensitivity, and it's obvious that the President of the Generality has different security measures. We bring a specific area, which is more flexible, and which directly controls, from the Department of the Presidency, is to say, replicating the same model, I insist, of our surroundings. I would like to end by referring, therefore, to this explicit compromise and this explicit support with the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad. Certainly, it's still better. We're coming from where we're coming from. We have taken the measures, I think, positive, because the squadrons can count on more mediums and more effective, and we hope that this, indeed, will bear fruit quite immediately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.96.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about false news about the independence process and its commitment to combat them]] [[317-00060/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.97.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honourable Presidents, Members, Members, today I want to talk about the fake news, and the work of some members of this Parliament, and also some ministers, to whom this trend has taken hold, who for us would have to banish the media and political landscape in Catalonia. Yesterday we saw a new episode, which serves as an example, but it is only one of many and, from here, we want to show all our support to the Director of the Office of Political and Civil Rights. There are Catalan parliamentarians, of genuine groups, who are always dedicated to acting with this same modus operandi of fake news. They take advantage of a media space to let some lie go, some fact that they try to make it look psychic, but they know perfectly well that it is not, or that much is an exaggeration, and they immediately give it all the diffusion that they can through their powerful groups of media like them. Always up, finally, the lie, but this lie has much less power than the moment they launched it, and that's what we've seen in Trump, Bolsonaro or Brexit defenders. It is also common – and fits into this very way of working – that others accuse of what they do themselves: "It is only about the process, "the Catalan society is divided into good examples. They did it with economic data, and they saw that Catalonia was close to the cliffs, and reality denied them once and for all. And a good example is the repeated announcements of great companies that decide, week yes, week also, to settle in Catalonia. They did it with the wounded and with the 1st of October rape, and they know that the only rape there was the police, and the whole world could see it with its own eyes. They did it yesterday, as we say, with the Adam Majó, who had to go out and deny them. Look, there's no marketing campaign or fake news that can cover up the shame of this state. For a lot of millions that are spent, they'll never be able to put up with fucking shots or the shame of holding political prisoners and prisoners in Europe in the 21st century. That's why I want to ask from here to groups that are already building this practice, that do honest politics and that work from responsibility, although they don't have the costume. We don't have to do fake news, we don't need to make it up. We've got a project for everyone, a Republican project compromised with democracy. And for all this, President, I would like to ask you for your commitment and also your opinion on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.98.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.99.0	Yeah, Congressman, it's really deplorable to live in a state that's dedicated, in its own right, to spreading fake news and creating specific organs to do it, huh? In front of the fracs of the Spanish brand, so we've invented Global Spain, huh? What's going on with another frac, even bigger, huh? Because, in the end, fake news is detected – it is detected – because it ends up going to what is obvious, that truth is imposed – truth is imposed. And maybe the biggest fake news we've faced these last few months – and I'd like to point it out – is the fake news of the violence. And that brought our companies to prison and exile. We must remember, once again, that Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart are accused of rebellion and sedition, why? And rape, why? This is the biggest fake news. Bring more than four hundred days to prison. It's clear, when it turns out that with the fake news you're not just, somehow, getting these lies, these faked things all the time, but you're compromising people's lives and freedom, you're compromising the lives and freedom of these people's families, you're compromising the lives and freedom of a whole people, that's a lot more than making news. That's a lot more than making news. This is a state operation. And it's against that, against that the people of Catalonia rise the first of October, against the fake news of the Spanish State. The first of October is the most obvious proof, they say to us: "You cannot vote; you cannot exercise your right of self-determination; go to the catastrophe. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! Just to set an example, huh? – Lidl and Decathlon argue that they set up their logistics centres for southern Europe For you to call one last dice, huh? , add to the port, the port of Barcelona, add to it the result of GDP, the result on the air. Catalonia, economically, went very well; Catalonia, politically, deeply debated and Catalonia has no violence, and on this violence they have built the whole story. And so, we, there's a lot of agreement, all the people who are propagating these ideas are against all these people that we have to raise and against all these people we always have to be the same to avoid that, actually, this can, this false relationship...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.100.0	President, he's running out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.101.0	...you can impose yourself. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.102.0	The next question... [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about the procedural guarantees in the court about the independence process]] [[317-00059/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.103.0	Thank you very much, President. President Torra, we find ourselves at the door of a historical judge, surely the most important judge of the history of Catalonia. Jutgen on October 1st, jutgen the ballot boxes, jutgen democracy. They judge them, but they judge us all, all the Catalans we went to vote on October 1. More than two million Catalans we went to vote on October 1; yes and no, because there were also people who voted than on October 1st. And the only feeling, before this court, our parliamentary group will constantly defend it, the only possible feeling is the absolution. Before this court, president, our parliamentary group, and most recently, we want to ask you about the procedural guarantees that you see and that you can find. Yesterday we saw the prosecutors questioning impartiality, you must think the thief that they are all of his condition, right? And that Spanish justice is not impartial. As Councillor Turull would say, we see that Spain is not a state of law, but a state that pulls for the right. Moreover, we see that witnesses are not accepted, before, perhaps, the immense fake news that Mr Carrizosa repeats every day, here in Parliament, that Mr Puigdemont is a fugitive. [[Widow's remorse.]] President Puigdemont is not a fugitive, President Puigdemont... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.104.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.105.0	...has appeared to justice in Belgium, Germany. There's no Euroorder he's looking for. Moreover, the Spanish State withdrew the extradition order when it saw a judgment of the Schleswig-Holstein Court saying that there was no rebellion, no siege, no public disorder. [[Greetings.]] You're lying, aren't you? And that's what the Spanish State doesn't want to hear. We also see and this is what we add to the worst conditions of the journey, less than a square meter of people for seven hours. We saw agents of the Civil Guard making recordings during the transfer laugh, laugh at the people and mock the prisoners. We see that prisoners only have two hours of daily heating; we see that they are limiting their rights; we see that they are limiting a totally unfair preventive prison and, before that, we see that injustice continues also on the part of the Spanish State. Mr. President, let's ask him about these...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.106.0	Mr. Congressman, time is running out. To answer the words of the President of the Generality. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.107.0	Yes; thank you, honourable Member. I think we all share the indecency of this political prisoner move. It has been a real indecency as the political prisoners of Catalonia have gone into that Civil Guard furgo, with those miserable conditions and coming to the prisons on top of the paranoia to ban even all the grieving groceries – the grieving groceries have banned. Up to this point of paranoia there are at these times and they are supporting our companies. Therefore, I also to see them, to encourage them, to give them all the strength, to know what is happening, I this week's head will go to visit them. This week I'm going to visit both the company in Soto and the friends and companies in Alcalá Meco, before the trial starts, where you know with the vice president that they're here. Certainly, in the band of living the intolerable, we are living the indecency, aren't we? And at these moments when we have companies so concerned that we can prepare our judgment well, to have the right time of dismissal with their lawyers, before a complicated and complex judgment, we agree that, under these conditions, it is already impossible for this judgment to be just. It's absolutely impossible for this trial to be a fair trial, huh? And it is only necessary, and Mrs Albiach also said very well, only to prove the whole relationship of international entities: Amnesty International, International Rights Watch, Nobel Prizes that have been placed, of the International Pen Clubs, but it is all the international society that is being given – all the international society –, Mrs Arrimadas, [[applause]] the fact that civil and human rights are being violated here – and civil and human rights. And when I come out in the world with the flag of the dial, of the civil rights and of the human rights everyone understands me, everyone understands me. And that's what we have to do, counselor and counselor, that's what we have to do, congressmen and independent congressmen, go out into the world, explain to the world what's going on...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.108.0	Mrs. Rimadas!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.109.0	...to accuse the Spanish State of what it's doing. That's what we have to do all the deputies in this chamber. [[Greetings.]] Because they judge us all, they judge them because they put the ballot boxes down, because they complete the democratic mandate, and they judge us too. And, therefore, we have a duty, a duty of honor with them to follow their example and complete their democratic mandate. They put in the ballot boxes, we give a democratic and right-wing response to feelings. We just want the absolution. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.110.0	President, time is running out. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the twenty-and-a-half points of the document to the President of the Government of the State and the social problems they solve]] [[317-00056/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the honourable Member Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.111.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, of the twenty-one demands that you have brought to Mr. Sánchez, can you tell me one social problem that can be improved with any of those points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.112.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.113.0	It's just that I couldn't let it go. It is that the twenty-one solve social problems – the twenty-one solve social problems. I remember that phrase – I always remember it – of Muriel Casals: "To make a welfare state you have to have a state. And this is my guide. Therefore, twenty-one points address social problems.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.114.0	To answer... to answer, I forgive, has the word, again, the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.115.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's just say he cares about the social problems of Catalans. No wonder you guys hid this document until yesterday because it's a real shame. It is a shame for you and also, of course, for Mr Sánchez. For you because it is outrageous that you present a document to Sánchez as President of the Generalitat that humiliates and obviates more than half the Catalans. And it's also outrageous because you don't talk about health, or funding, or the Mediterranean Corridor, or Rodalies, or dependence, or any of the social problems that affect the reality of Catalans. I do not know where you live, Mr Torra, but certainly not where Catalans suffer social problems. Look, these twenty-one points are a compilation of your hatred for the rest of the Spaniards and especially for the Catalans we don't think like you and that you don't even consider us Catalans because you speak on behalf of Catalonia, obviating more than half of the population. Since Sánchez speaks to you alone and is believed to be speaking to Catalonia, I take advantage of the fact that I am in the Parliament of Catalonia, where the dialogue between parties has to be held, by the way, to tell Mr Sánchez to stop humiliating us, that he does not represent Catalonia, which represents separatism and the CoRs. [[Widow's remorse.]] And I ask you, Mr. Torra, of those twenty-one points... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.116.0	Shut up, everybody.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.117.0	Yeah, don't get nervous – don't get nervous. Of those twenty-one points...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.118.0	Madame Arrimadas, who controls the Ple soc jo, if it doesn't matter...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.119.0	If you've just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.120.0	Go on. I've got the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.121.0	If you've just said that, the counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.122.0	He's asking... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.123.0	But if that's what the Torra said before, to the spokesman of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.124.0	Madame Arrimadas, you are no one to control the Ple, near me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.125.0	But Mr. Torra told the People's Party... but what is this...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.126.0	If you want to keep spending time, keep spending time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.127.0	I just can't believe it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.128.0	You ask the question that surrounds you to the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.129.0	What a shame! Well, anyway. Where are the non-independence Catalans in this document, Mr Torra? Where are the social problems of Catalans in this document? Every day you spend in the presidency is a lost day. In recent days mobility platforms have gone away, hundreds of people have been made EREs, the insecurity suffered by citizens has increased, there is a medical strike called for this month. Do you want to say something about it or do you also care about a pepper? Eighteen_1,000 dependent people who are waiting for a square and, of course, fascist attacks. Yes, also those of the CDRs, who break the face of a councilman and which is celebrated by the mayor of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.130.0	Mrs. Arrimadas has run out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.131.0	Don't confuse yourself with Mr. Sánchez that when the general election arrives... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Strong remorse of the eyes. You see, "Shame on you!]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.132.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word. When he wants to. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.133.0	Look, no; what's embarrassing and what's indignant is that you, who's the leader of the opposition, don't act as the leader of the opposition. [[Voice remorse and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.134.0	Silences – silences, silences!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.135.0	You're the leader of the opposition. [[Crits of "Shame!]] You're a leader of the opposition and you're a showmaker, you're a politician. [[Greetings.]] You're doing politics all of a sudden. [[Greetings.]] We've met three times at the Palau de la Généralita – three times at the Palau de la Généralita – and you haven't come at all and all the other groups have come. [[Greetings.]] Home! And he's leaving no one... [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.136.0	One moment – one moment – President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.137.0	And it's leaving more than a million Catalans out of it. It's his responsibility. Not exercising opposition is his responsibility. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.138.0	President, President... a moment, please. Ask the audience... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Strong remorse of voice and applause.]] Ask the public, please, to refrain from making any kind of ostensible manifestation. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I followed that I stopped the President's time. Go on, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.139.0	No, you didn't. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] President, don't worry, all these are smoke curtains that make this group – smoke curtains – to preserve what is the reality that when you need to walk around and work for the dialog and find a political solution to the political conflict in Catalonia there are – there are never – [[applause]] 'cause they want the joke. [[Greetings.]] What do you think is easy for us to go to this table of dialog with our fellow prisoners and exile? Do they think it's easy...? [[From the escó estant, Inés Arrimadas García shows a photograph.]] The sign, we already have the sign! Fantastic! [[Greetings.]] The billboard, we already have the billboard of the day. All right, magnificent, we found him missing. [[Rialles.]] And listen'm, Mrs. Arrimadas, a little respect I'm talking about right now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.140.0	Quiet, everybody. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, everybody, repeat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.141.0	All right. They're still, as always, excuses for a bad payer to face the responsibility they have. I ask the Ciutadans Group to face its responsibility as the group that won the elections. Indeed, you assume your responsibility, you are at the table of the dialect, you come to negotiate, you come to talk, to do politics – to do politics! (Whispering loudly.) Three times he didn't come to the Palau of the Generality while we all met there. And one thing, Mrs. Arrimadas – one thing – : you called me racist, xenophobic and supremacist yesterday. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] He treated me like this!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.142.0	Way to go!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.143.0	And you have agreed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.144.0	Way to go!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.145.0	...with the racist party...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.146.0	Time's up, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.147.0	...xenophobic, supremacist... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and this continues to speak for a few moments. Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.148.0	I've already warned you, I'm asking the public to refrain from making demonstrations, or else I'll ask the servants of the chamber to act. Keep going. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] The next item on the order of the day is item number 2, which is the communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of commissions and change of name of a commission. In this case, and in accordance with Article 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees must be communicated to the plenary. As the current composition of the months of the commissions appears to be attached to the Ple's file, I ask them to be exonerated from their reading. [[Proposal for a change in the name of the Commission for Education]] [[395-00061/12]] Similarly, also, and as I have previously advised, and as set out in Rule 49.2 of the Rules, we are now moving on to the proposal to change the name of the Education Commission, which would be renamed the "Education Commission". This proposal was signed by five parliamentary groups and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Union candidature constitute. Can this name change be approved by consent? (Pause.) Yeah? (Pause.) So once this approval has been given by consent, the proposal for a change of name of the Education Commission for the Education Commission is approved. [[Proposed law on the ordering of the regional map of Catalonia and the suppression of the District Council of Barcelones]] [[202-00034/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, the third item, which is in connection with the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Institutional Affairs on the proposal for a law ordering the regional map of Catalonia and the abolition of the Barcelona Regional Council. In accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Anna Erra, who has been appointed by the rapporteur, has the first word. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.149.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, president of the Regional Council, secretaries and director of the local administration, representatives of the workers who today accompany us, deputies, deputies, after the governing bodies of the District Council of Barcelones unanimously approved, on March 15, 2017, a motion for which the Generality and Parliament were called upon to initiate the procedure of suppression of this institution, the Law 30/2010, of August 3, of vogueries, determines that any modification of the regional demarcations is to be done for the law; thus it is noted the will of the Parliament of Catalonia that the regional map of Catalonia is determined for the law. The Commission of Institutional Affairs, at its 30th session in 2019, has studied the text of the proposal of law and today, after collecting the modifications approved by the Commission, is presenting today the opinion for approval. This is why today we are bringing to Parliament the proposal of law ordering the regional map of Catalonia and the suppression of the District Council of Barcelona. For all this, and as the rapporteur, thank the quick and consensual work for which it had already been done in the legislature as well as for the different points which have been presented, with a total of forty points, distributed in the different parliamentary groups, of which they have been accepted, and the majority – many – transactions, in the text which is approved today, and seven which are still alive, which will be approved today in the plenary. Also thank the reader and the manager and the server of the chamber for the long term, so this law proposal. Also welcome the willingness to listen and participate in the different parliamentary groups, workers, unions and assemblies in the different presentations and gatherings. There has been a rich debate, and I thank all the predisposition, understanding and collaboration and the high degree of consensus. Let's start a process that will make the Government of Catalonia's hand and that the Joint Commission will age and ensure you serve and work rights with all guarantees. It says a lot about a country that it is able to hear its structures without rigidities and, at the same time, to hear the citizens' requests and give it an answer. Thank you all very much, and we hope that this will be approved. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.150.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the parliamentary groups that have reserved defence items in the plenary will intervene, for a maximum of two minutes, and five minutes for the parliamentary sub-groups. Later, the other parliamentary groups will intervene to determine their position, also for a maximum of two minutes. In the first place, he has the word, to defend the reserved items, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, and that is why he has the word Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.151.0	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, I'd like to denounce the order that's taken control of the government before, and of time. I think it's all unusual and I think it's all denouncing how it happened, or how it was managed, this time on the part of the presidency, which isn't really there right now, but I think it was supposed to be said and I think it's gone. It can't be – it can't be – that I act like this in a control session when it's such an important control session in a parliament like this, which must be plural and democratic, in this case. (Applause.) I wanted to start, in fact, by talking about this law, and say that it is the first substantial and substantial law approved during this legislature. And that's very, very – very – related and really very specific, and it shows and describes very well how this legislature has been and how it is working in this legislature. It is the first effective law – effective and complete processing – and, in fact, we could also say that, in some way, it is a historic day. I already know that here the historical days have happened, years ago, and even, day after day; but, in this case, it is historic, because in the end what is being done this law is to modify, in some way, the historical dynamics that have occurred in Catalonia since 1978, since the approval of the Spanish Constitution of 1978. All the initiatives of administrative territorial organization in Catalonia, until now, have always been based on partisan interests. We now believe that this has changed – it has changed. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Vice President, we'll talk about it if you want. I don't have much time. I know you guys have a bit of a time, but I'll talk about it later and I want to comment on it. This exposure or change of situation, in some way, of the perspective leads us to have at present an order and a territorial organization in Catalonia, therefore, which is a sum of political heads and interests. And that's what I think we need to change, and from Citizens we've been reporting it all the time, and I think it's important that we keep it in mind today. It's true that a consensus has been reached, and therefore, in this case, we can say that it is minimally historical all this. What do we have in Catalonia today? Who are the structures we have, territorial, in Catalonia? So we have some basic structures, the oldest ones, which are the parliaments, which are from 1833, which were approved, so in the middle of the Carlist war – now that, in some way, this is being brought back with a certain neo-Carist virtue to Catalonia, so it is important that we say so – that liberal revolution that brought us the Constitution of Cadis in 1812 brought us some institutions that were innovative as were the democracies, which were based, precisely, on the French departmental structures. Those, and then we have the oldest – the oldest seconds –, which are the Catalan comarcalytization or comarcas, which were approved with all the work that was produced during the Second Republic and which was approved in 1936 and which are never, discordantly, able to apply in that moment to the war and to the later, cruel, Franco dictatorship. In 1978, with the Constitution, other entities arrived, as were the autonomous communities, which were also innovative, because at the end of the federalization, in some way, our territories and donated, generated, different formulas that had not existed until then. For example, it is possible to eliminate some provincial deputies from those autonomous communities that were uniprovincial, as happened in Cantábria, as happened in Murcia, for example, with some examples. And what happened, too, to Catalonia? So in Catalonia, let's say, the government of Pujol to which he brought us, essentially, so, it is to recover in the eighty-eighth year – 86, in fact – the districts, some places that many Members say they have a certain historical delay; they do not have it, because they have never been implemented; they are a creation that was done in the thirtieth year, and it was done basically with a real function of administration and management of the territory. It is not possible to carry... – and for us, it was a mistake –, to carry those comarques of the 36th, with studies of the 36th, to the 86th, fifty years later. Possibly the most appropriate would have been to make some other proposals, which were not made, and what they brought us, therefore, is to again superimpose a new level of administration to which there was – which we also criticise – which are the provincial parliaments. Everything, why? So to create a counterpower. Obviously: when it is not possible to control those parliaments, the Pujol government simply wanted to create another level of administration in order to be able to control the territory locally. He didn't get it either. There were also other proposals, in those years, such as that of the unique province – to eliminate the four provinces – and to generate a single element that could serve, therefore, in some way, to outsource the central power of the autonomous community. It was not done, in the end it was not carried to term, and what it was done was to eliminate the Metropolitan Corporation of Barcelona, because it was annoying, too, at that time. And, therefore, we already had the map made, with the political powers and political control of that moment. To this, they were added, in 2012, new structures that..., let's, in some cases, distinguish them: on one side, the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, that what it did was to recover good part of the experience of the corporation and that, in fact, we believe, from our point of view, from the Ciutadans, that it was a much more modern entity. And, on the other hand, the old days, which have never been implemented and which, therefore, were also translated at that time with a romantic nationalism in the Middle Ages, as a way of not knowing very well what to recover and what, what values to recover today. In short, today we are carrying one of Ciutadans' proposals, which is basically the elimination of a good part of these soberres, this greek administration, which I believe Catalonia, therefore, has and other autonomous communities do not have. Let us remember that, for example, in Murcia or in Cantabria, so the level administered is much simpler: for example, in Murcia we have the municipal level, we have only the autonomous community and the State above. In this case, in Catalonia, if we start adding some heads, we could have a few more. In short, we are bringing here today, so a law that will be approved and that we believe that... we, of course, have worked and will support it. A law that goes up, maybe, late. The same law, the history of the same law, also has, say, its interest: a law that, in some way, pushed the district council in 2017– at the beginning of 2017–, which was brought here, which was to do the whole process of ponència and in September some decided that it had ended with this law because it was not important. And, well, they focused on other things that might be more important than this law. They left the workers and all the local council until the local council arrived again... – with a proposal, a motion from Ciutadans –, which was before the summer of 2018, when it reopened, with the introduction of the law – from Ciutadans, too – to July, so, this period of time. We were about to approve it in the past plenary, but they decided not to go to the Committee on Institutional Affairs to vote on the papers, and somehow we were certain that today too is a vacancy and, I don't know, these things that you do, that end up always leaving in question, so the democratic wills and the functions of this Parliament. We have presented a series of papers on this law. These items, some have remained alive; I think it was very important that you stay alive. A speech essentially of the order of the regional map of Catalonia; essentially I think it was basic that if the regional council is eliminated it will also eliminate the region of Barcelones; but, well, it seems that this logic did not have much success at the moment – just as it does today, but it does not seem to be. We have also kept alive the ability to prioritise the outsourcing of functions to the joint commission to the supramunicipal center, such as the metropolitan area. And also what we wanted to leave and what was this law, so part of future territorial reorderings that I think are still pending, as are those that will remain at Baix Llobregat, because we still have municipalities with unabsorbed duplicates; now we end up with the Barcelones, but all the south of Baix Llobregat will remain the same in the same situation. Essentially, we will also support the transaction we have made with different groups. We also have this dialog capability, so, with the UPC, with the commons, with the People's Party... It seems that we have done some exercise because we have a presence in the mixed committee, both the workers, with vote and you, as the political parties. And, for that matter, and for that matter, a little bit, so, going to end up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.152.0	Yes, it's over, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.153.0	Yeah, I'm done, president, not worried, I'm done now. Basically, to end up, just say that we take these words that are also given to Vic's Major Square, right? , those of: "We do not deviate from the objectives. They remember, don't they? So we don't deviate from the objectives, and we want to approve this law. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.154.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then has the word, to defend the reserved items, the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem. And that's why Congresswoman Susanna Segovia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.155.0	Well, thank you. MPs, MPs, members of the Bureau, in fact, I will be very brief, I will not run out much less of the time we have allocated; it is also one of the things we talked to the Board of Spokespersons, if it were possible to reduce the time. We believe that we are, indeed, for me, at a historical moment, as at least, because it is the first law that I have seen in the light as the deputy; I mean that it is always a thing to celebrate. And we're celebrating that this is the case, because it's one that's already come from the previous legislature, that we've been able to work well, that we've been able to work quickly, that there's really been a lot of consensus and a lot of willingness on the part of all the political parties, and I think it's exactly one of the things that we all need to celebrate. At least to me, personally, I very much like that this is the first experience at the time of finally drafting a law that approves this Parliament in this legislature. We do want to point out that the fact that this urgency and this need for the suppression of the district council does not need all the work that has been done in these last thirty years. A great deal of competition has been acquired: competitions have been acquired at the Company's Regional Service Centre of Animals, for example, regeneration works and urban improvement, housing has been promoted and managed, and key territorial functions have also been completed, such as the development of the Green Round and the comprehensive maintenance of the Barcelona Rounds. I mean, there's been one of us that's had its function and that's had its results. That's why it's very important the whole issue of how these skills are resolved and who are the bodies that are going to do these functions now, isn't it? We also believe that it is a good time to start a reflection on what should be the role of the Barcelona Metropolitan Area, as this area should do something more than be a forum of territorial management and of managing services per delegation, but it is actually a channel of metropolitan government that makes redistributive policies, that makes a vision of the land fair and, above all, sustainable and that vitli per la salut and combats contamination. It is also true that it is a regional council that has not been free from controversy, which, as the motion approved for the plenary of the regional council says, can actively collaborate with the Union of Accounts and with research petitions. But here we want to add to the proposal that has defended the CUP at the length of this process, and it is the need and the importance of having an external audit; that the press doesn't make us want to store things, that the press doesn't make us say that with what we already have there isn't enough. An external and independent audit is instrumental in actually being able to close well and ask for the accounts that fall. We believe that if we can't do the whole audience, because we want to close down and that we don't want to form the district council again after the May elections, we do have all the political will, and we should be able to get out of the joint committee, that this audit takes over and approves a timetable for the presentation of the results of this investigation, before the dissolution of the joint committee and the regional council. One of the themes on which we did not actually agree is the issue of the participation of the unitary representation of the workers and workers of the mixed commission, and also of the political groups that conform to the district council. We believe that there must be no reason for the representatives of the workers to be far from the whole committee and to be able to take part in all the issues that I am talking about this committee... It is also the people who have carried out the policies of the local council who can be more clear as to where we are going, which is what is left in the middle, which is what needs to be better, which would be the best for us to be able to manage it. We believe that giving a voice and a vote to the unitary representatives in a joint committee that is far enough not to do us for, we should not do us for. We should not think of it as an obstacle, but rather as a mechanism to facilitate and improve all this cross-competence and the closure of the district council. That's why we're defending this idea that we've been dealing with other groups that agree we don't have to restrict participation. Because I must insist: consultation is not a decision, and I believe that this in this Parliament has been discussed many times; the right to be consulted is not the same as the right to decide and actively participate in the decision making. That is why we defend that the unitary representation of workers and workers must have a vote and that the political groups that are in the district council must also participate, as at least you do. As we say, let's start the suppression of the regional council, but we do want to take a turn, which we would also be well placed to do, with this good collaboration, and it is that we continue without having a law of local governments and a law of local finance that strengthens local autonomy, which guarantees a stable and proportional financing system, with well-defined competences for our assemblies. We believe that it is the assemblies, the local governments, that are more close to the citizenry, that must have the maximum of skills, autonomy and resources to give response to the needs of the citizenry. So I'd like to finish this cycle of the proposed law of suppression of the district council by involving all of us in working together on this law of local governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.156.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the deputy Carles Riera, to defend the reserved items for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Cry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.157.0	Thank you, President. Well, our parliamentary group has obviously taken part in the consensus for the suppression of the District Council of Barcelones, for reasons where it is not worth insisting or repeating. So, we want to make it very clear that this does not mean a precedent for us. Our territorial map, the territorial map of Catalonia, must be based and developed, yet must be fully deployed on the basis of the criteria of commarchs and vegueries, which is the most suited to our territorial, cultural, historical reality, and to our project of future for what it does to the territorial configuration of the country. We also wanted to point out, at the length of the debate that has taken place, that, from our point of view, the dissolution of the district council must actually take place with the approval of the law, but that it is very important that we bear in mind that the actual dissolution must not take place until the mixed commission has completed its tasks and started the process of transfer, among other things, to leave the unity representation of the workers and the workers absolutely preserved and to leave their working rights, to all its effects, both for what it does to the workers of the district council and to the businesses linked or associated to the district council. We find it very important to note that this process of dissolution of the district council in no case can imply a_thousandth of a loss of workers' and workers' labor rights, I insist, both of the council and of the associated companies. On the other hand, it is also important to point out, from our point of view, that the debate on this issue has sparked a debate of foundations, and it is about municipalism or Barcelona Metropolitan Area. Obviously, and without undermining, therefore, the utility and efficiency that the metropolitan area can generate for certain public policies or for the management of certain infrastructures or services, we want to point out that everything that can be given to the municipality, everything that can be done by the municipalities, that is a democratic area, of proximity, and that for us it is fundamental from a point of view of the political concept of the country, that is not given to the metropolitan area. Therefore, we have defended this criterion that transfers are always produced prioritising the municipal area. Well, another question on which we have also put the emphasis is on, I insist and return to underlining it, the importance of representation, of the presence of the unity representation of the workers, with the view and the vote, in the joint committee and, therefore, what they can say to it, that they can participate and decide on questions on which they are to defend their legitimate interests and on which they can contribute knowledge, experience and vision. Therefore, we cannot accept any restriction or limitation in this sense. On the other hand, we have also defended, until now without success, the political plurality between the joint committee, that is to say, that all levels of the Administration involved have a presence, but also that all political groups have a presence, so as to guarantee plurality and, obviously, that the political presence is as wide and as representative as possible. But I want to reflect or value our weaknesses, say, in this claim or in this proposal, at least until now – we'll see, they're still on time in the polls – with regard to the issue of the audience, because everything is really folded is suspicious, disturbing and worrying. We have proposed an independent, external audit, not just on comptability and finance, but on all the decision-making processes of the district council, until the time of its dissolution; that is, an audit that assessed and values it managed and the decision-making. Among other things, why? Because we're stocking the county council with more than 70_million euros of lost and management decisions in the real estate area like least dubious, or disturbing, especially for its consequences. And, of course, it turns out they're telling us that this will already do the audit. The audit will assess comptability, but not this type of problem we want to address. Therefore, we seem sincerely suspicious of limiting the presence of workers and workers, limiting the presence of political groups, and then saying that they do not want an independent and external audit that assesses the totality of the district council. And, of course, before such an important fact as the dissolution of a public administration body that it is a relevant precedent in the history of our Administration and that, therefore, it would require lights and tachographs, an in-depth evaluation and evaluation for such a net result in the transposition... It seems to me that it is a relevant moment, the dissolution of a public body, to make an in-depth evaluation and audit, and, on the other hand, for its consequences from the point of view of economic management. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] So no, it turns out that we find that it seems that you, I insist, are still in time – I finish, president –, correcting your position at the time of voting, are in favour of dissolving the district council as soon as possible by raising the captivator and praising pols and responsibilities below. We won't cooperate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.158.0	Thank you, Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.159.0	...and we ask and demand lights and tachographs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.160.0	Thank you. Then there is the word, to defend the reserved items, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, and in its name has the word MP Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.161.0	Well, twenty-nine years after the creation of the District Council of Barcelona, today we see each other with the possibility to vote yes to its suppression. It's ironic, isn't it? , which after twenty-nine years will be the cases of corruption detected by the Union of Accounts which leads to the dissolution of an organ that was not necessary, above all with four municipalities that are large enough to provide the services of feeding beaks or, finally, the gathering of abandoned animals, right? It seems unbelievable that after all these years corruption is the only impulse I carry, especially to separatist parties, to say: "Selecting, they are right, it's unnecessary, it's a duplicity, it's not a rational way of managing Administration, we delete it, right? We'll see where the court cases go and these two reports that the Union of Accounts sent to the prosecution. Do you see that? In this case, this judicial process will: u, that public money and public resources are served efficiently, moderately and reasonably, and that the interests of citizens are the first to prevail, and not the interests of parties. The People's Party did not sign this request for the suppression of us, but historically we carry decades of this suppression. We are proud, because for the sake of this..., I was going to say, a little, like the judicial pressure has caused Esquerra Republicana to reconsider her vote, which until now, until 2017, is always refusing to suppress a us like this. We have always defended this suppression, among other things, more or less advanced it, because we believe that it is reasonable, it is effective, it is called for at the end of a public administration, right? , that makes use of resources in an intelligent, efficient, reasonable, rational way and that allows, therefore, the citizens living in this area to have access to some servants of the same quality as others. But one thing has to be said: we have a reality, and it is not only the District Council of Barcelona that has this oversized service that can be taken by the same local administrations; and now I am thinking, to say the least, of the papers that the different groups have presented, as we find ourselves with papers that leave the door open to other district councils to add to this suppression that today we vote for the District Council of Barcelona, among other things because they are municipal enough to bring these policies to an end and serve whom they are responsible for. Now I'm going to talk exactly about the items we've removed, which you know yesterday we've removed the items from the 16th to the 19th, but we'll keep three, which are practically the last ones. And why do we keep them? We think it's..., you see, we've been working for twenty-nine years..., these municipalities are integrated into the Metropolitan Area. And we're talking about creating a joint committee, a mixed committee with broad representation that manages all the service transfers, and all the integration of the staff and workers of this county council into other municipal entities, and we're not setting time limits that make it possible, one day there are some municipal elections at the Mayer, to re-establish another district council in Barcelona and we're going back to the same starting point, which is to re-ask for a suppression of a council that we're already managing today. With which we maintain these three last points because we believe it is important to ensure that this is done in a quick, month-and-a-minute way, that the transfers of the services are made, that it is the transfer of staff, and that it ensures that errors such as the creation of a twenty-nine year old have not been made when it was absolutely superfluous.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.162.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Next, to fix her position, the MP Marta Moreta has the words for the Parliamentary Group of the PSC - Units for Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.163.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies and deputies... first, to welcome the president of the district council, Mr. Belver, and various representatives of the council. Therefore, thank you for being here today in this hemisphere to approve, surely, this suppression of the district council. I would say today is the day; it is the day of the suppression of this District Council of Barcelona. We think there's been a race of obstacles, but it looks like we'll finally get it today. This peril began a long time ago, it must be remembered that the Members of Parliament who were part of the ninth legislature, when they adopted various measures to reorganise the territorial organization of Catalonia, including the approval of the Barcelona Metropolitan Area Law in 2010, which created the supra-municipal administration to which various functions and competences were assigned. Later, in 2013, the Parliament of Catalonia admitted to forwarding the draft law of local governments of Catalonia. This reform of the local world had to have an impact on the entire Catalan territorial area and obviously directly affected the District Council of Barcelona, as it questioned the need for this to exist in the metropolitan area. 2015 was the end of the new legislature, here in Parliament, without concluding the parliamentary process of approval of the new law of local governments and, therefore, the bill fell. On March 2017, the Ple del Consell Comarcal del Barcelonès unanimously approved a motion for the dissolution of the council. Today, some parliamentary groups are capacious to say that this dissolution of the district council has not been approved before because of the application of 155. But after what I just explained, they still think someone believes that, right? Do you think they're going to say it out loud? Do you know how long we haven't had 155? So no more or less than almost new months. And it's always funny that he's squeezing with this speech when he sees what passed past 16 from generation to commission. It must be remembered that we had to approve the opinion of the Committee on Institutional Affairs, but the parliamentary groups in Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra and the UPC did not attend the committee. And so, today we're here, 15 days later, because of this. And then they're still overtaken, often, by blaming others. We don't understand. But we don't lose the wire. Today, therefore, the dissolution of the County Council of Barcelones, this supramunicipal body that has united the municipalities of Barcelona, Badalona, the Hospitallet de Llobregat, Sant Adrià de Besòs and Santa Coloma de Gramenet for thirty years will finally take effect. A supra-municipal entity that has worked for these municipalities over the past 30 years, exercising territorial planning skills, managing social, sports and educational services, promoting youth-oriented activities and programs, and creating the Company's Regional Service Centre. Moreover, it has carried out works of regeneration and urban improvement, has promoted and managed habitats of official protection, urban parks and public endowments, and has had to end key functions for the territory, such as the development of the green round and the integral maintenance of the rounds of Barcelona. The transfer of the functions and competences of the District Council of Barcelona should be governed by the principles of guarantee to the citizenry in favour of the improvement, rationalisation and sustainability of all the services and activities currently provided by the Regional Administration in order to contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of all, the two_million people living in this territory, while also guaranteeing, at the same time, the rights of workers and workers in this area. It is worth saying that at the economic level the institution of the district council is found healthy and close some positive results, because the debt of what was previously spoken of from here, from this Faristol, referring to 48_million euros, refers to the business Regesa. I would like to highlight the predisposition, of course my other colleagues have said, which has had this debate with the papers presented, despite the fact that some of us have not been able to agree, but we are always willing to reach agreement. The Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units to Advance we have presented various papers to the Articulate, which refer to different articles, and we have not been able to deal with Left and Joints for Catalonia that, in our opinion, are entirely satisfactory, such as the transaction on the distribution of skills and activities and services, which means that the origin of the competences and the goods affected return with preference to the Metropolitan Area, that is, that they can recover what, at the time of the constitution of the District Council of Barcelones, was awarded from the Commonwealth. I would also like to highlight the compromise we have made on Article 3 on the joint committee, which has also been discussed here. Because, in our opinion, the joint committee is represented in a satisfactory way, both by representatives of the Generality, of the regional council..., in addition, they will also form part of this committee, representatives of the Metropolitan Area and of other supra-municipal administrations that are directly or indirectly affected by the suppression, of more than one of the representatives of the workers of the council and of the bodies and entities or enterprises linked or dependent that are to attend meetings with ve and without vote when they are discussed, obviously, which affect work. And what we all agreed on is that the mixed commission is believed in the three-month term from the entry into force of this law. As for the debate on the audit, which has also been discussed, it is said that the Union of Auditors has analysed six years – six years, I repeat – of management, and has rejected its representative for two years at the regional council to collect data. We understand, therefore, that the audits that per lei are carried out by external companies... [[Your speaker.]] Excuse me. And by the way... [[Your speaker.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.164.0	Don't worry, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.165.0	... – I'm sorry – and the taxing of accounts is enough – I don't know if I'll finish. In the end – I finish, because I will be without a voice – do you know how many proposals of law have been approved in this legislature? Senyora Segovia, one no, four– four. And three have been signed for the PSC. I'll leave it here. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, also to fix his position, has the word the deputy Gerard Gómez del Moral, for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.167.0	Thank you, President. President Torra, Councillor, Members, Members, first place, also welcome the representatives of the district council and the representatives of the workers of the district council and of the enterprises and organizations attached to the same council that today accompany us and with whom, moreover, we have worked intensively, so during these two, three months of processing of the law and, indeed, since the previous legislature..., and of all the work that we have done. I think it's been repeated – and I think it's more important than more, and I also don't want to congratulate myself – that actually the work that we've done on this job has been fast, because that's why it takes the moment, but more with a lot of friendliness and understanding, so really great. I've been told by the Member of the House as rapporteur at first, haven't I? , which have approved almost everyone's exams, more than half of the exams presented, therefore, have finished incorporating into the text. Therefore, I believe that this text is a text that actually generates... that, in other words, generates consensus and is an important adventure. Clearly, Citizen has done the same thing he always does, hasn't he? , which is to say: "No, that's thanks to me, that's a little tired. In fact, I think last year's legislature, when we were discussing just this bill, I already made them that timeline to unravel what's probably a fake news, because it's not true, right? ; it's simply not true. And what you are capable of, because when you see that there is a subject that generates consent, you present it before and correct it to say: "Hey, this is thanks to us that it is done, but it is quite surreal. I say this because two years ago, two years ago exactly now, in the month of February, Esquerra Republicana presented a motion to close the district council to the District Council of Barcelones. And at the time of introducing her, seeing that this could generate unanimity, we withdrew her and agreed with all the groups to present her together. So I could come here today and say, "No, two years ago..., today we're tanking the county council thanks to Esquerra..., but it would be so ridiculous, really, it would be so ridiculous, because the will is that we do it among all of us, the will is that we do it unanimously, the will is that we have worked among all of us, and, then, come and put on medals, I honestly find it a little out of time or, at least, I don't like it. And for what you're doing today, and I don't want to get in before I get into the actual text, but we can make it look like 155 hasn't affected, Mrs. Moreta; we can do it – we can do it – we can do it – but it wouldn't be real. Because if the chamber had not been dissolved, it would probably have already been approved by the previous legislature, because we already had all the work done, we already had the text, we had the opinion, so we simply had to go to Ple. And, effectively, therefore, the chamber dissolved, the whole government ceased and, therefore, it was not possible to do the last legislature. And you said: "Well, we are in the month of fever and, therefore, have spent a few months. Yes, but it is that the first debate to the totality that we have held this legislature was in October, at the end of October, Mrs Moreta; only three months have passed, three months since Parliament was able to begin legislative activity. Why? Because we were with 155 until the summer, so there were no legislative committees, so there was no legislative activity in Parliament, which is one of the questions that, by the way, with the deputy spokesman of his parliamentary group we were now talking about, with the reform of the Rules, so that we could find mechanisms because, in a case like this, the legislative capacity of Parliament is not eliminated. But yes, yes, the Parliament could not do legislative work for 155 for a year. We can see that it hasn't happened, but it's happened, Mrs Moreta, and therefore we have to say it – we have to say it. And, said that, in November at the CAI, at the Commission of Institutional Affairs, the processing of this law begins, and in less than two months we closed it. I mean, we've been as fast as we could. In fact, this is the first bill approved in this legislature, because we have worked very quickly and with great consensus. And that's right, Mrs. Segovia said, and that's right: it's the first proposition..., proposed by the law, yes, Mrs. Moreta: it's not the same as a modification of a single reading law as a bill or a bill; therefore, it's the first one that's done in this legislature. Why? Because we have had a great deal of consensus and we have worked in an absolutely fast way. It's true that there could have been before, and I'm sure we would have preferred that Article 155 that you voted for had not been applied. In any case, history, the district council. Indeed, the district council has done many tasks and has done good work. And sometimes, all of them, huh? And I can count on it, maybe we've had a little bit of injustice, haven't we? , with the district council. Because it's true that now the district council is the only one that is overlapping, the only one in Catalonia, because, I insist, other county councils – before the Lower Llobregat was quoted – it doesn't happen the same, not all municipalities that are between Lower Llobregat, the district and, therefore, the Regional Council have the metropolitan area above. It is true, therefore, that now, probably by management, he had lost feeling, but for many years he has done an important service, and it seems to me that she was the lady Segovia who quoted them: from rounds, fears of youth, animals, etcetera, and above all habitation, to more, isn't it? And, therefore, I think I should also recognize him here today. But it's true, as I said, that probably today we can be much more efficient by doing it in another way. That's why we have this law, which I think generates a big consensus, and I'm going to come in, not to get away with it, right? , to explain the position respect the items and respect the themes, therefore, that they have been able to go trading. First of all, we can't support the transaction – and I want to explain it – because we don't share that political groups should be in the joint committee, and I'm telling you frankly, because I think this debate doesn't have to be partisan or partisan, that's to say, it doesn't have to be contaminated by a possible or possible position before some municipalities, that this can stifle what is a negotiation between administrations to take on competitions. Therefore, it is true that this point we do not share, because we believe that it should be the institutions. And if we put ourselves first, we could say: 'Listen to me, therefore, Republican Left has no representation in these institutions; therefore, we are the most harmed. It's likely; but I think we need to be on top of corporate debates. Therefore, they correspond to the different administrations, as always happens, when there are competition debates, and, therefore, it is certain that we cannot give there support because we do not share that it can end up converting into a partisan or party debate. Neither are the papers, the rest of Ciutadans' and the Popular Party's papers, in this case. First, because removing the district council does not have to eliminate the region. The region, on the regional map, must continue to exist; if not, we lived, the people we are from Barcelona or Sant Adrià or Santa Coloma? Yes, we lived here, in our municipalities, but the region... there's a regional map, there's a regional division in Catalonia, and so we defend it. And we want to shut down the deputies, like Mr. Garcia? Yeah, 'cause we bet on the old days and the local councils. Effectively – effectively – this is the division – division – administrative: vegueries and comarques, and then you can talk about the management bodies of the same division. But we are defending this territorial division and, therefore, we cannot agree with these elements that are planting, from one band, eliminating this, and second place, extending it to all the rest of the commas, as we believe it is an excluded, unique case, right? , which we have today in our division. At 16 and 18, which are from the CUP, we cannot support it because we have managed to lower or plant with our transactions that can be produced in three months. Three months, why? Because we think it's important that the district council is so much before the proper municipal elections or a few weeks later, when the organizations are formed, that it's a big consensus for everyone, for everyone, for workers, for political representatives as well. And, therefore, as the six-months are maintained, we are not there..., but the part of the consultation being with the representation of the workers, not only with the unions, which was the initial, is contemplated in the transaction, in this case, to what we have reached with Mrs Moreta or with the Socialist Group, and, therefore, is also included. Then there is the debate as to whether to go further to the municipality – which we could probably agree with – that Mr. Riera was setting up or that he was setting up the UPC, and there is also the debate that he was going further in supramunicipal organisms than in this case Ciutadans. Our position is common in the two questions, although we have a particular position more in the line of the UPC, but we understand that it must be the joint committee and that it must be the same assemblies that defend what they want to assume or not, and therefore we believe that it must be a paper reserved, in this case, for the same institutions. And that's why we think it's better to maintain local autonomy and, therefore, the autonomy of the assemblies, to say, "Listen to me, I want this or" we think it's better that we don't take it from here, don't we? , political groups, parliamentary groups, say so. And lastly, the audience, which I sympathize with what Mr. Riera said... we were actually close to a deal; it didn't finally go that way. It is true that we share the external audience; we defended that it was public, not private, in the sense that it was not a company, but the Union of Accounts, and that you embrace all the list that Mr. Riera has said. But it is true that in the end we did not end the transaction, and the literality of the text cannot be assumed because of what it said: because it marks that it is expected to be locked, and we believe that there is a sufficiently widespread consensus that it is not back to constitute the district council. That said, we agree, the joint committee can also take over, we're working on it, because I think it's important. We share exactly what you're asking, and what we have clear is that all the irregularities that have been uncovered... can't be done as if there's nothing going on. Therefore, it is necessary to be diligent – diligent – with the prosecution or with the Union of Accounts and to be able to address, so that it does not remain unsolved, all the irregularities that have already been uncovered a couple of years ago and which, therefore, now, with the closure, also tax as is all folded. Therefore, this is a bit of a position: we have a law that I think is important; we have a law that I think generates a great consensus; we have a great agreement that just today, so we can move forward to close the district council, that I think it is a necessary step that has been a long time since we worked and that today, with great consensus and good work on the part of all parliamentary groups, we have succeeded.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.168.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Finally she also has, to fix her position, the words of the deputy Anna Erra, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.169.0	Thank you very much, President. President of the Generality, deputies, deputies, president of the regional council, director of Local Administration, representatives and workers of the regional council and of workers, today, therefore, we are here because, after the organs of the district council of Barcelonès, on March 15, approved its suppression unanimously, the Government of the Generality and the Parliament of Catalonia carry this proposal of law. And we, like Together for Catalonia, want to make this will come true and that this is done above all by guaranteeing its services and its high quality and the rights and conditions of its workers. It should be made clear, however, that the presentation of this bill is an exceptional and special case, which is determined by the same petition for deletion. As in the country, we are clear on the importance of the regions and the regional council and divide it that has our Catalan territorial map. The trade unions – and, I repeat, the ones we are from are clear – are the identity of our country and are also an example of political defence of a space and of a territory. That's what they've been doing for 30 years and they're still doing it. And, in trades, the local councils, nowadays, have more sense than ever. We do not share in absolute what the Lord of Ciutadans said, that we have sober heads, as can be the district councils. In the territory the district councils are key, since in the day to day they show to give answer to two key objectives: to give service to the people's needs and to serve as the identity model. Local councils are needed to provide quality basic services, combining costs and ensuring territorial balance and equal opportunities for all citizens. Now, in the case of the Barcelones and before the petition for suppression, as we say, it's exceptional, and that's why it's decided that it's a joint commission that you finish. From here, to do so, and with a transaction that we have made with the Socialist Party, we will make a joint commission that will be made up of representatives of the Generality, the municipalities of the region of Barcelones and the county council, the metropolitan area, the other supra-municipal administrations, whenever they are affected, as well as a representation of the workers, who, without any reason – the decision is not with question – will attend meetings with a view to and without a vote, whenever there are concerns that they are affected by work; as well as this committee will be used for the distribution of the services, the calendar and the maintenance without interruption of activities and services, and, as has already been said, it will be presented in the form of a representation in the form of a three-way contract, if you are satisfied with the proposal, if you are satisfied with the three-way agreement. Finally, and even though it is a very fast process, as Mrs Moreta said, obviously, it has affected the dissolution of Parliament and this chamber since 155, as Mrs Moreta also said, the delay of the fifteen days, simply, for the repression that we still have as the country, and it was seen, therefore, fifteen days ago, that this is why we rose up and did not go to the committee. And that's why, so, before this little delay, but the great delay of 155, we present this proposal of law. And with that I appreciate the predisposition, as I have already said, so, as the rapporteur, to all parliamentary groups and all consensus achieved. To note that it is an exceptionality that gives answer to a petition of the municipal world; that it wants to preserve above all, with this dissolution, the services and the rights of the people affected, and that before this exceptionality, like the country, we continue to defend the import of the districts and the councils on the Catalan map. And the will – it was also said – that, four months after the municipal elections, it is urgent and necessary to finish the work approving this proposal of law, because it is no longer constituted after the municipalities. So with all this agreement and with what it seems today to be possible to bring it to term, as Mr. García said, we have a common objective, an objective that he has brought to us all here, but as with the vigatana – and it seems to me that he has thrown a flower at me – I have to say that to the Major Square what is said will not be precisely to do a suppression of the district council. Our goal, which is repeated at our Major Square, was for freedom and, above all, to achieve the independence of our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.170.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We have called for a vote on this proposal for law ordering the regional map of Catalonia and the suppression of the District Council of Barcelona. We shall proceed first to the vote on the reserved items of each parliamentary group, and then vote on a compromise, and finally the rest of the text of the opinion. First of all, we will vote on the reserved items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.]] Firstly, we shall jointly vote on the reserved items of the Ciutadans 1 and 2 Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. These two items, 1 and 2, are rejected by 35 votes in favour, 93 against and no abstentions. Let's go now and vote for the 35th. The vote begins. This item, the 35, was rejected by 40 votes in favour, 89 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote on the reserved items of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem. In concrete terms, we vote first on item 18. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 13 votes in favour, 112 against and 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on the reserved items of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent, and, in concrete terms, vote, in the first place, on items 4 and 20. The vote begins. These two items are rejected by 12 votes in favour, 117 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote for Emena number 16. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 113 against and 4 abstentions. Let's go now and vote on 39. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 77 against and 40 abstentions. Let us now vote on the reserved items of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. I would remind you that the parliamentary sub-group has finally withdrawn items 12, 17 and 19. We therefore vote, first of all, on the issue of 36. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 40 votes in favour, 89 against and no abstentions. Let's go now and vote for the 40th. The vote begins. This item was rejected by four votes in favour, 125 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on the transactional issue between the issue number 6 of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the issue number 9 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, and the issue number 10 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, and also the issue number 11 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. So let's start voting on this deal. The vote begins. This compromise was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 77 against and no abstentions. And let us now finally vote on the text of the bill's proposal. The vote begins. The proposal for a law on the ordering of the regional map of Catalonia and the abolition of the Barcelona Regional Council was approved by 125 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Decree Law 1/2019, of the 8th generation, of the financial needs of the public sector, in matter of public function and taxation in presupposition]] [[203-00009/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, item 4, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree 1/2019, of 8 genera, of the public sector's financial needs in matters of public service and taxation in budgetary prorogation. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-President of the Government and the Councillor of Economy and History will intervene in the first place, in order to explain the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. It has the word, therefore, the vice president, Mr Pere Aragonès. When he wants to. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.171.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the matter of the decree, I would like to add myself to the outrages and condemn the recent sexual assaults suffered by two women in Sant Cugat del Vallès and Sabadell; some unacceptable attacks, which clearly show us that as a society we are not doing well – we are not doing well. A few days ago, too, we had to regret cases of women murdered at the hands of their peers. And it's a constant exhaustion, a scab that we can't eliminate: maltreatment, sexual assault, murder; women long ago raised their voice against male violence, and men can't stand up, we can't stand by. It's not a problem that only affects women, it's a problem that affects the society's joint venture. We men need to rise up and say hard, that it is not just a fight of women, it must be a shared fight. So we must feel it, and we must act accordingly. Women aren't men's games. Women are not under the will of men. Women are our travel companions in this life. Respect us, take care of each other. Male rape is a problem that affects everyone, but it is not a problem of women, the problem is patriarchy and its violence. [[Greetings.]] Entering into the subject matter before us, the government passed the Decree of 1/2019, of the public sector's financial needs in the matter of public service and taxation on a presuppositional basis, and today we present it in this chamber, to expose them to the need for the Ple to be valid for this rule. As you know, by not having approved the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2019, the Government is again working on the extended assumptions, until the year 2018, at the beginning of the year, with the suspected autonomy, did not approve the assumption, the last approved assumption that is extended is that of the year 2017. That is why, for one band, we approved Decree 273/2018 of 20 December 2018, which regulates the criteria for the application of the extension of the presumptions of the Generality, and, for another band, the Decree Law which pursues that it is the Parliament which authorizes the Government of Catalonia to take a whole series of decisions that can only be taken if they are validated by a rule of law. Therefore, while maintaining the situation of presupposition in the 2019 financial year, it is necessary to adapt certain financial needs. This law contained three articles and a final disposition. Article 1 responds to the unaffordable financial needs of both the Generality and certain public sector entities, and considers it appropriate to provide for the authorisation of the endorsements that are planned for 2019. Article 2 contains certain forecasts in the field of selected cases in the field of civil service. And Article 3 maintains the taxation for legal acts documented in relation to the acquisition of protected habitat, which left no effect on Decree Law 6/2018 of 13 November, so as not to increase the tax burden. I will continue to examine the need and urgency of the measures proposed for each of the articles. In the first place, Article 1: "Reviews of financial needs. This article has four points. The first point is that the Generality can formalise debt transactions in any manner, with a limitation: that the outstanding balance, that is, the total debt, does not exceed the authority for the Law of Presumptions of the year 2017, more the imports that derive from the debt programs that are approved in application of the presupposition stability legislation. That is, the debt limit of the year 2017 plus the increase that corresponds to the authorized deficits for the year 2017, 2018 and 2019. This is essential so that we can face the debt renewals that, for one band, involve the debt depreciations we have throughout this year, and, for another band, the new debt arising from the authorized deficit target, which is 0.1_per_cent. As far as information is concerned, only during the first quarter of this year 2019 do we have write-offs worth more than €4,400_million, which we will need to renew. And, therefore, in this sense, we need Parliament's authorization to increase the level of debt. The second point in this first article refers not to the generality's debt or related transactions, but to public sector entities. The Generality is not just the departments, the pure and harsh Administration, but the instrumentalities through which the Generality brings public policies to an end. These public sector entities, from consortia to public enterprises, have to pay depreciation allowances for loan financing operations that have been compromised in the past. And, therefore, we need permission to formalize the renovations. In addition, during the first quarter of this year 2019, the depreciations of these entities, which fall within the scope of the public deficit in the context of the Generalitat de Catalunya, which in the name of the ESA, of the European System of Accounts, is to say, when we look at the total debt in terms of national comptability, is EUR 52,92_million. Therefore, it provides for the legal authorization to formalise these debt transactions, and, therefore, to complete the financial obligations of the Generalitat de Catalunya. At the third point, the Government is authorized to provide endorsements, the endorsements that are the ones that in the past few years we have raised; some related to the processes that some entities in the public sector have opened with the Tax Administration, therefore, in the face of complaints in the field of VAT, or in front of third parties in operations related to the public policies that the Government brings to completion. In one of the four points of this Article 1, the Government is also authorized to provide guarantees before third parties for certain lines, for example, which are loans that make other entities, such as the Catalan Institute of Finance, in which the Generality provides the guarantee. Obviously, this has to be authorized by law, and that's what settles in that quarter point. It also foresees the need to formalize these debt operations of the Generality's conjunction, before having approved the Law of Presumptions for 2019. At these times, the Generalitat de Catalunya is ready to join the Finance Facility Fund, to attend to debt depreciation and the 2019 deficit. We're out of the FLA. So, then, he agreed to the last month of October at our request. On behalf of the Government of the State's Delegate of Economic Assumptions Commission, and on the public news from last week, the combination of which is the specific authorization of this access to the Finance Facility Fund has already been accepted. A less narrow foundation than the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, in which those autonomous communities that comply with fiscal objectives accrue, therefore, in the journey to return to the way in which sovereign and sub-sub-sub-sovereign governments are financed for their debt amortization or new net debt issuance, which is through the financial markets. Obviously, this transfer from the Fons de Facilitat Financea to the FLA subtratlla which is this evolution of the good financial health of the finances of the Generalitat de Catalunya. For what it does to the deficit target, the debt imports that are related to it, it should take into account that it is 0.1_per_cent, and will also be met through the Finance Facility Fund. So far the first article, which has been related to these authorities, which must be made law, because the parliamentary tradition in our country and the problem of parliamentary systems is that it is the Parliament, the representatives of the citizenry, that authorize the maximum debt limit that governments can reach. In our tradition, governments are often asked to find financing formulas. In other traditions, the government wants to make policies and will seek funding from Parliament. In any case, we have to authorize it for the law, and, therefore, it is a decree that must be validated in Parliament. The second article, also with different forecasts that must be authorized with a rule of law; they are those that are in the matter of personnel. In a period of presuppositional prorogation, with general character, it is not possible to approve public employment offers, because, for one band, the prorogation affects the presuppositional norms that do not have indefinite validity, as is the case with that point in the Law of Presuppositions of 17 that authorizes the public employment offer of 2017 and, for another band, the public employment offer has a principle of annuity, that is, it is fan year and only for that year, and it is a principle directly, therefore, linked to the annuality of the assumptions, because the vacancies offered are to be covered by a presuppositional provision. Even this general principle, there are certain cases – and we need legal empowerment, that is, a rule of law that allows us to do so – in which it is possible to approve public employment offers. These concrete assumptions have made them useful, for example, the General Administration of the State, which has enabled convocations in periods of presupposition, such as those at these times also at the level of the State. And we do not do this with a regulatory standard, but with a law decree, appealing to the extraordinary and urgent need. As I say, these urgent circumstances.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So these petitions that we have here in Parliament, these decisions that we have in Parliament, they force us to pass a rule of legal rank to enable approval by the government of the offer of public occupation of those places that are to be provided with new access personnel, lock in those that are to be provided by means of the internal promotion round, whenever these places are vacant, assumed and not reserved. The utility of maintaining an express qualification to approve an offer of public employment is responsible for enabling the attention during the presupposition of urgent needs to provide vacancies assumed for new staff whenever it is untimely and prioritised for the proper functioning of public services. And here, therefore, are the criteria of extraordinary and urgent need, which are the criteria for approving a rule of law. The third article provides for a tax estimate. As you recall, on 8 November a royal decree was passed, by the State, amending Article 29 of the Law on Property Transfer Tax, therefore, which paid the legal acts documented in the constitution of mortgages, derived from that Supreme Court ruling that came and went from the room to the plethora, etc. – I can't remember it. In any case, what we did afterward was to make a decree on 13 November, which abolished the letters to and from Article 7 of Law 21/2001, on tax and administrative measures, which refers to the part that we can decide on the tax on capital transfers, which is the type. The law decree came into force on 16 November and was validated by Parliament on 12 December. Today there are still some acquisitions of habitats, which are declared protected, that with the writing that has been given from this new article 7 they can end up taxing the general type of '1,5. Therefore, in order to avoid any confusion, with a clear intention of regulatory clarification, and in the area of legal certainty, what we do, therefore, is to recover this type reduced only by acquisition of declared protected habitats if in some case this acquisition is to be made without a mortgage loan for the middle. You can already assume that acquiring a protected habitat, not a new promotion, that they are of fundamental importance, but those who maintain the condition of protection, without a mortgage it is a difficult case, that someone has enough economic capacity to pay for it – and will already forgive me for the expression – trinco-trinco, right? But, in any case, only because of this remote possibility, the law has to predict, and, therefore, because of the protected type and not the general type of '1,5_per_cent. Therefore, the measure – which is given effect after November 16 – gives continuity to the application that had been made up to the time and avoids increasing the tax burden on taxpayers who, for their personal condition, are in an economic situation, therefore, of great difficulties to be able to access a protected habitat. It is clear that this decree will continue to apply until the assumptions of the Generality of the year 2019 are approved. And allow me to refer briefly to this question. Any assumptions of the Government of Catalonia in which the Generality did not have all the tax resources that are generated in this country will certainly be insufficient assumptions. However, from this point of view, the proposal for assumptions that we are working on increases the departmental expenditure for social contingencies by more than EUR 1,660 million. In percentage, it is the Departments of Work and Teaching, with taxes close to an increase of 10_per_cent, the ones that grow the most respect to the last approved assumptions, which are the ones of 2017. These assumptions that we are working on, and that we hope to be able to count with the majority to facilitate the processing and parliamentary approval, reinforce the social stake of the assumptions of 2017, they are aware that we are moving in a financial insufficiency mark derived from the political insufficiency mark that involves being an autonomy of the Spanish State and not an independent state. We have to apply strict deficit targets; we are bound to a presuppositional stabilization that, as the country's assemblies that would not want to apply it, we see no other way than to apply it, but despite this we make an effort to, with a _forty_part of the deficit that occurred in 2010, reach the same current expenditure of the year 2010, especially in the social departments. Therefore, so often that we have listened in this Parliament, with all the reason of the world, to demand that it is returned to the current level of expenditure in the social sphere for detail, with the proposal of assumptions that at these times we have on the table we are clearly recovering this current level of expenditure from the field..., before 2010, especially in the departments with more social burden, such as Health, Social Affairs and Teaching, we recover the current level of expenditure, which the State does not do in its draft general assumptions of the State, that in the social spheres it is still under the current expenditure to the economic crisis. But in any case, those assumptions are figs of another bread; we focus on the assumptions of the Generality, of the Generality of Catalonia. As I said, the decision on whether or not to approve the assumptions of the Generality has a transcendence that went beyond the purely political character. Unlike the general assumptions of the State in which an excessive optimism in the forecast of entry, as denounced by the Bank of Spain or the European Commission, can be corrected to the length of the exercise adjusting the investment in its execution, to the difference of the general assumptions of the State, to the assumptions of the Generality badly the reversal is not so great, and it is the current expense of nomines, aids, social benefits, commitments with providers, which cannot be adjusted to the length of the exercise a time has gone forward. Therefore, all that is assumed in the assumptions of the Generality is carried out, different from those of the State, because the reversal has much more. We, like the Government of Catalonia, do not have this adjustment valve during the presuppositional exercise. Therefore, it is an important difference. Therefore, beyond the legitimate political positions that exist in this Parliament, even all legitimate electoral positions, that are legitimate, that exist, that exist in this Parliament, the decision on whether or not to approve the assumptions has transcendence. It does not weaken or strengthen, but it means putting all the resources that we can put to the service of general interest. The situation of extension in which we are, if it is throughout the year, places the Government of Catalonia in a complicated financial situation; the rate of expenditure on us would be at 1,265 million euros of unsurpassed and unsurpassed expenditure without any presumption, even without making a new political action, but we would also find it difficult to assume without accepting a cost of opportunity in other areas the obligations that the Government did not have in 2017, such as, for example, the retributive increases of public personnel or the return of foreign payments, of being able to assume it; it is our commitment, we have assumed, but the fact that there may not be any presupposed ones will force us to compensate for it with other parties. Therefore, we cannot take on all the commitments of 2019 with the resources of 2017. This is why the approval of assumptions is important. And the Government is prepared to study the different fiscal measures that have been put forward, on the table, which relate to the taxation of estates or to the taxation of the income of physical persons, we are prepared to study it, to talk about it, always talking about the type of property and not so much of marginal property, because what interests us is that, in real terms, in terms of the type of property, it is what ultimately ends up paying, not just what is in the law, which finally ends up paying, so that we can guarantee the necessary progressive taxation on income and taxes on capital to our country on which the Government of Catalonia is competent. I'm sorry about this presupposition trip. I think it was important to put him on the mark. In any case, we ask for the validation of this law decree; a law decree that is necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the financial dynamics of the Government of Catalonia. In the event that the Government is not authorized to increase the debt corresponding to the authorized deficit, the Government should make an adjustment equivalent, at the expense, to 0.1_percent of gross domestic product. And, as the Parliament, with all the reason of the world, repeatedly demands that we increase the expenditure, we ask, therefore, that we validate our decree to be able to give a compliment in the field of our possibilities of which this Parliament mandates. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.172.0	Thank you, Vice President. We shall now proceed to the interventions of the parliamentary groups to determine their position. And in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr Antonio Espinosa. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.173.0	Well, thank you, Mr. President. Mr Vice-President, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, it is inescapable to start this intervention without pointing out that from 2012 onwards the successive governments of the Generalitat have repeatedly delayed the presentation of the budgets, or, as is the case this year, as happened in 2016, as has also happened in 2018, they bring us, in fact, a decree of budgetary extension or a decree to facilitate the financing of certain entities and not to cause their collapse. Look, the governments of the Generalitat, for a long time, have settled in a bad practice, in an anomaly that we could call a democratic and budgetary anomaly, and that I believe that, to this exceptionality, this anomaly, we must put an end to, and present the budgets when it comes to it. But unfortunately we find that in Catalonia what should be normal independence makes it impossible. Of course, this poor practice is due to the weakness, the growing weakness of a Government of the Generalitat which, with less and less parliamentary support, is logically seen in the inability to present budgets. If he had the capacity to make alliances with other groups today, instead of bringing this decree law to Parliament, he would have brought us a draft budget. They have not, because they have great difficulties, because they have serious problems bringing us budgets that have the chance to move forward. And the truth is, considering, well, the wonders that the vice president has told us right now that they're preparing a fantastic budget proposal... I'm surprised, first of all, that we don't know practically anyone, no parliamentarian or any group, and that those who know him again and again turn their backs on him. Therefore, make them look at it – make them look at it. The weakness of the government makes us paralyzed as a Parliament. Look, secessionism has Parliament in a state of permanent hibernation. The government, this government, has Parliament in a state of induced coma, and of course this situation needs to be changed. All this, moreover, is not by chance, at all. You have your explanation. After converging on the independence ideology, political instability has increased, divided and fractured Catalan society and, consequently, this Parliament as well. Undoubtedly this division and fracture limits the Government in its possibilities of pact and agreement; and that, naturally and irremediably, results in increasing difficulty in approving budgets. They were extended in 2016, in 2018, and it seems that we are engaged in extending them in 2019. Since 2012 the governments of the Generalitat have settled in a fiction called "process", a fiction that has allowed them to make cuts in public services for thousands and billions of dollars, has allowed them to hide the corruption of 3_per_cent, and has allowed them to cover up a management, a poor management that has worsened and damaged the well-being of Catalans. That's right, always transferring responsibility, its responsibility, to the perfidious Spain, the oppressor Spain, and even the thief Spain. Independence and its governments are a real slab, a huge backpack for the Catalan economy. Look, the BBVA's study service has estimated that the effect of greater political uncertainty on the Catalan economy would decrease GDP growth in 2018 and 2019, and estimated that it would entail 35,000 fewer jobs than if a scenario of political instability such as the one we have had had had had to be created. There is no doubt that independence harms employment, but it also harms foreign investment. Look, Catalonia has chained five consecutive quarters of declines, from the second quarter of 2017 to the second quarter of 2018. Since 2012, when the Catalonia Process became a focal point of instability, the gap between Madrid and Catalonia in terms of attracting foreign investment has quadrupled. In the last six years – in the last six years – I am therefore talking about an important statistical series, Madrid has received 71,807_million more foreign investment than Catalonia. In 2012, the difference between the two autonomous communities was 6,677_million_euro. This difference increased to 8,085 in 2014. What a coincidence, when the 9 - N is produced! But we didn't stay there. The convening of the illegal referendum on 9 October with the subsequent unilateral declaration of independence caused the gap to reach 14,399_million_euros in 2017. Have the effects stopped? How's it going, not at all! The effects continue to increase, so that, in 2018, and with the data we know recently, it turns out that this gap is already 27.984_million. Yes, look at the, it's very clear – it's very clear. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Investment in Spain, investment in Madrid, investment in Catalonia. Look at the gap in 2018. Scandalous, frankly. The source, in case they are interested, is the Ministry of Industry and the Idescat. The Ministry's database is based, precisely, on which investors declare, not like the FDI Markets, which they like to refer to. The IDF Markets, its database is due..., first, only subscribers have access; that is, it is not even public nor official. But let me also point out what I am going to tell you: it collects information from the investments that have been published in the press. IDF Markets data are not exhaustive, they do not cover all projects because sometimes companies do not make them public, and in others it is difficult to follow up the project until the final phase. Similarly, investments are allocated to the specific period in which the investment is announced. Therefore, it is not periodicized in time. The IDF Markets database does not capture investments involving capital increases or venture capital investments that have not been associated with a productive investment project behind. And this says Citizens, does Citizens invent it? What's going on, what's going on, not at all! This is what the Department of Economics says. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr Aragonés, this is said by the Department of Economics, specifically in Work Papers 1/2016, of the Department of Economics and Knowledge. That's how the Department of Economics qualifies FDI Markets itself. Naturally, we rely on information from the ministry and the Idescat, and not on propaganda from the Government of the Generalitat. If they were to object that this investment is by headquarters, I have to tell them that there is also a considerable gap if we take into account investment by the material immobilised and take into account investment and job creation. In both cases, not only by headquarters but also in those cases, the gap exists between the Community of Madrid and such. But also I would logically have to..., I have to ask you a question, a question to reflect on: Why do more and more international companies decide to establish their headquarters in Madrid and not in Catalonia? Is it because they get calls? Because that's the answer you guys seem to be making up lately. Please give a smart answer, don't be... be smart, man. Look, even though independence does not want to recognize it, we think, and so the experts consider, that Catalonia is suffering from the Quebec effect, an effect where foreign investment, as a result of political instability, therefore led to a decline in foreign investment in that Canadian province. And what can we say about competitiveness? What about competitiveness? Well, look, the Government of the Generalitat, far from being a friend of the economy, business and business, is becoming its main enemy. We are looking, for example, at Spain's regional competitiveness report of 2018 and suspending Catalonia on a key issue, which is precisely the institutional axis. In other words, it suspends us in institutional quality [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And of course that's exactly an incapacity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.174.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.175.0	...that the economy can, not only now but in the future, move forward in a much better way than it is now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.176.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group Unites per Avançar is the turn of Mrs.Alícia Romero's deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.177.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, vice president, counselors, deputies and deputies. Mr. Aragones, I think you have forgotten to explain one thing well, which is why you are here today presenting this decree of extension. You're here today because your government, we can tell you a lot of ways, but you've been incompetent, incompetent, failed to present the assumptions when it comes to it. And, according to the Law of Presumables, he should have presented himself in October and approved himself before the end of the year. And today we're on 6th of February and yet we don't have them, we don't have them. We haven't seen them. And, therefore, today is the consequence of a failure, of a failure of a government that I believe that, among them, within them, they do not just find what is the way to make some assumptions – therefore, some priorities – and then I don't know if they will be able to negotiate them out afterwards. Because here, you know, the forces that conform to the government, which is together for Catalonia and Esquerra, do not have the majority of parliament to approve the assumptions, and therefore will need to negotiate them; and, therefore, to seduce us, one or another, or many or few, to try to approve them. Therefore, you are here today for this, and let me make it clear, above all because the responsibility to approve some assumptions is of the Government. It's something I already gave to Vice President Junqueras, with all the damage I have. He said: 'Responsibilitzi's, don't blame others. You have to submit assumptions and try to negotiate them for approval. And, therefore, the responsibility is yours. And today, on February 6, we still don't have them. We have a power point that they presented us with slides in which there is a general_mark and a general_expenditure, about where they want to put, you, these 1,600_million euros that they have on the margin. We believe that they are insufficient and that it could be completed, and then I will explain it. Therefore, one of his responsibilities which, I say, there are other autonomous communities very close to here that have done it and have done it well. It is necessary to do his job, which is the one close to a government. Valencia, on 20 December, approved the assumptions of the Generality, and the Balearic Islands, on 21. Listen, they've done the job. They presented the assumptions in October and approved them before Nadal, which is what a parliament has to do. It's true that here we are so used to it that it seems normal to us. We wear eight years without any assumptions coming when we play. But the real job for a government is this: to introduce them in October, November, and to approve them before the year is over. That's why we're here today, with a decree of extension in an exceptional way, because, well, the Parliament supports them and allows them to move forward with these, basically, funded actions, right? Of course, we can't stand up to, say, this process; we will allow it, I would only miss it, because, if not, it seems to us, that it would be to put up with a little more still a government that doesn't rule anymore. And, therefore, not to further assist in this, so let us allow the processing of this decree. Above all, because, among other things, therefore, it is true that the salary of the employees is increased, it is allowed this increase of Chapter 1, we put the approval of large institutions such as the Scientific Park of Barcelona or the Biomedical Research Park. And we can't let this go down, and so we have to pick it up. Now, we're here because we didn't do the job. And I'd like you to be clear about that. But we're going back to the source a little bit of the decree, aren't we? I mean, last year, a few months ago, you brought us, already, a decree of presuppositional prorogation. I remembered that it was probably all different, because we understood that. There were some elections in December 2017. It was impossible to bring some assumptions to pass when he was playing. And, therefore, listen to me, we gave all the support to that presuppositional extension. But it can't be like that today, as I say. I think we could have done the job and not, and we don't even know it yet, this job, which you say you're working on, but it's been so many months since we know where the school is. We think you should be first inside, and then probably out, so we've also been listening in the last few weeks. But, I don't know, I would suggest you actually do the job. I understand, that you have contradictions and that it's complicated to make a bill of assumptions. First, because it's the most important law that he does, that he approves a parliament and that presents a government; because he sets priorities, concrete resources, that's to say, which policies he wants to do, and that's difficult in a government that I think he doesn't know where he is and that he doesn't know, at all, how to solve some of the problems that the country has. And so, so, that's hard. Now, I'm going back to setting the example of Valencia or the Balearic Islands, where they are with coalition governments. To the Balearic Islands, with Socialists, More Mallorca, More Minorca, which includes Gent per Formentera, Can..., it is to say, that, in fi, the coalition must not be easy to manage. I, escort'm, to the Valencia Country, Socialists with Commitments and May. And, in turn, they're good at putting forward assumptions and approving them before the end of the year. So, listen to me, maybe I'll look a little side by side and head down, see if they learn some things from our partners that do the right thing. And we need some assumptions because we have some problems in Catalonia. And I think that everybody knows. We can all share it, can't we? Inequality, poor child, difficulty in equal opportunities at university, problems with waiting lists, segregation and school inclusion... In other words, the list could be endless. And, therefore, we need to solve these problems. And we have a lot of reps, a lot of reps like the country, and now I'm just going to put one, now that I see Mr. Puignero, for example, working and doing a country strategy connected to Europe on artificial intelligence, on the subject that we have only been able to make a working group. It would be good to have a strategy, to lay the resources to put us, say, to the vagueness of which Europe is laying with artificial intelligence, to set an example. Therefore, there are many reptes. And you say: "We have little margin. Well, you say you have little margin, 1,600_million euros, because we believe you don't develop all the margins you have. One is a tax reform that we asked for many months ago various groups, among others the Socialist Group and Unites per Avançar. And in this tax reform we're asking you to be worth it, so we could get more tickets. You say, "Well, listen to me, we're going to have to start making some reforms, not just to get more tickets, but also to ask for more effort from those who have more or more heretics. It seems fair to us. It is that you, who speak so much of the general assumptions of the State, therefore, do so in the agreement that you have brought these assumptions of the State: wide assets, wide..., reduce VAT in some aspects, increase tax on companies, control the Sicav more... That is to say, there is an ideological element here behind. And, on the other hand, you have submitted an accompanying law to CTESC in which there has been no proposal in taxation, no one at all. I, then, said: "We will negotiate it. Well, then, listen, in the House passed Mr Cid, who filed a motion on taxation, voted against any reform of estates and IRPF. I don't know exactly, this negotiation or this waistline, when they put it on the table. We don't see her for now, and we're already in the month of fever. And there is not only a margin in taxation; there is also a margin if we adopt the general assumptions of the State, would come more resources: in investments, 2,200_million euros. I just want to say a few things, because how we talk about the ciphers is as if it were, there, one thing, say it, absurd or inconcrete... No, listen'm: when we say 2,200_million euros of investments that the State is putting in Catalonia we are talking about 300_million euros to the Mediterranean Corridor, 129_million euros to all the infrastructures of the port, 500 to Rodalies, to the synchro Alba, 20 to Barcelona Supercomputing, 30_million euros to finish cleaning up all the contamination of Flix... That is, we are talking about concrete things, that will affect and improve the lives of the citizens. It is a lot of resources, and you seem to give up these, and then give up transfers too, which partly come from these general assumptions of the State, and which could benefit 1,7_million pensioners with the increase in pensions; 66,000 beneficiaries of dependency, with this injection made by the State in this matter, or could benefit 119,400 Catalan students with an increase of 80_million euros in scholarships, which, taking into account that we are the autonomous community that we pay the higher materials, therefore, would not go badly. So it turns out that you guys are giving up all this. And I say more to you, Mr Aragonès, than to your parliamentary group – the parliamentary group that you represent, right? , and where you are – therefore, he presented a statement to the totality to these assumptions. Home, giving up more resources in investment or transfer does not seem reasonable to me, when you're just saying you don't have enough room. Home, so if they offer you margin, accept it. And then there are other things that we hope for, but sometimes there are things that we can't hear, and it's – and we've heard it in the mouth of some member of the government or some deputy – that you say you pose over civil and political rights to social rights. It's just that we don't think there's a prelude between rights: they're all the same... or they all have to be guaranteed the same way. And if we now have the opportunity to secure social rights with a million tickets that would allow us to make a few better assumptions of the Generality, we accept them, and then we fight for the rest. But you condition one thing to another and it doesn't seem reasonable to us. I don't know how they will really explain to the pensioners, to the beneficiaries of the dependency, to the university students, to all the people who go to Rodalies, to the entrepreneurs who need the Mediterranean Corridor, etc., so that you do not approve these assumptions of the State that would allow them the margin to, surely, design better and define better the priorities and assumptions of the Generality that we have not yet seen – repeat, Mr Aragonès – that we have not yet seen and yet do not know. And a presupposition extension brings us to the initial assumption of 2017, which was much less than the one that ended up modifying 2018, huh? ; 28,700_million euros, we had initial, and in change, with the modified, it was 30,400_million. It's to say that we really don't go very far, with very little margin, and what you should do is be brave, settle in, out, and present assumptions with this margin that will allow them, too, the general assumptions of the State. Governor, you have some assumptions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.178.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.179.0	...and try to negotiate and dialogue, which is the government's priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.180.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mr David Cid. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.181.0	Well, I think we're on the day of the marmot, in a no-fi loop. They're nine years in a row – nine years, it's said – of presuppositional prorogation, which I think would express in good measure the incapacity, the lack of governance, the lack of priorities for that which affects the day-to-day citizens of Catalonia, because, look, in education, salvation, in dependence..., the government only reacts when there is social conflict in the street, as we lived this late. And I think – and I honestly say this too – that this happens because they have a strange way of negotiating, I say it so clearly: rare trading, huh? Which would say my way, among other things because, basically, I think that in the end they don't negotiate. And I think it also has to do with the lack of trust between you, that is, that you do not have a shared project – as in social policy and fiscal policy – within your government, the Torra-Aragonès government. Miri, we did the first meeting on assumptions on September 19th, huh? We expressed to them our sincere willingness to negotiate the premise. We've been chasing him, haven't we? because the assumption was to be presented, and it seemed that we had to pursue it for this negotiation. We didn't find each other until November 29th, when we presented the ten minimum proposals, huh? From Catalonia to Comú We can shield social services and shield public services. And then it has not been until this month of generation where we have had various sectoral meetings– if, as you say, you do not give, that you have served to say that we are very far away, to find that we are very far away, and also to – we believe – appreciate that they are deeply disappointing. Because, look, beyond offers – as if the assumption was a market, a souk – from statements to press, leaks interested in partial documents, because it was not the documents exactly that had passed to us in terms of taxation, we did not find an adage in which I gave it: in shielding public services and, in this case, also in reversing the detail. And I say to them: I also think they negotiate strangely or negotiate strangely, because I still haven't been able to find out, in all these meetings, what is the absolute figure of what you expect to be allocated to the assumption of the Generality in 2019. I don't think we have it, because I'm growing up, and I'm in the mood, which will be lower than the presupposition of 2018, right? , this figure that you speak of 30,459_million euros in the monthly performance reports, which is the definite assumption that you have placed, in this case, as the assumption of the year 2018. Mrs. Artadi said that we have all the information this week. I don't know if we have all the information. I'm already telling you... I don't know if you've got it from Constellera Artadi, I'm already telling you that the Group of Catalonia in Comú doesn't have it. And I think they don't want to give us this data because I think it's going to be inferior and that, in practice – because these 1,600_millions that you're talking about already know that it's spent, it's spent this year 2018 –, which will be detailed according to the assumption of the year 2018. And he also told us, at the time, that he could get through, in this case, his secretary of economics, in one of the meetings. Look, I've also come to the conclusion that at the end of the day, it's good that there's no presupposition. That if there is an extension, then better, because, thus, easier to complete the deficit objective. And it's easier to complete the deficit target so that maybe we're easier to have a presuppositional prorogation, right? And to make it easier, too, in this case, to refinance ourselves in the markets, which is something that you also take care of and worry about – I don't say it's not important, but I think it's, in the end, also your priority. And, look, we also believe that with the information that they give us, they're assumptions that they're not real. By the way, I'm making a point: it's not certain that all departments are recovering from the 2010 spending level. First, this is the year 2018, eight years have passed, but, for example, the Department of Health, for the information you gave us, is almost 500_million euros less than the year 2010 and also under the year 2009. So, that's what they're getting back the retail of the year 2010 for sure not, and we're eight more years to go. But there are some things that we're not sure will complicate them. For example, I say this directly: you can say, in your parliamentary office, that you are sure, sure, sure, at cent_per_cent, you will return the double pay to work, to what you agreed of 40_per_cent of the double pay of 2013, this year? Because, listen, you said that at the end of the year we may have many presuppositional tensions, and that it is necessary, or that it continues to be necessary, to pay this double payment, an agreement – in this case with the Government of the State – to modify the Presuppositional Enabling Law. What are we staying at? Do we have the resources or don't we have the resources? Is the assumption real? You've always said that we can't include parties that can't be paid for later on. I'm telling you that some of the things you're saying that you're doing this 2019 maybe can't be done, and that it's up to you, in this case, to the state government. So I also think they're assumptions that aren't real. And, look, I said to him: these sectoral findings have served to find that we are far, in this case, for what it does to public services and to shield social proposals, and that in fiscal policies we are in different dimensions, as at least now. Because you say for the press that our proposals are unrealizable. I ask him: Is it unrealizable to refinance in its totality the schools Bressol? Is it unrealizable, for example, to recover the health professionals we had..., the totality of health professionals we had before the retail? Is it unrealizable to end the waiting lists, in this case, of social housing in the months of emergence? Is it impossible to allocate more resources to public transport and fight climate change? Is it unrealizable to reduce university fees by 30_per_cent, as approved by this Parliament? Or is it unrealizable to try to reduce, in this case, the waiting lists in dependence with more places of residence for large people? So look, I don't know, but I think it's a bad thing and it shouldn't be a reality is that, for example, 11,000–11,000– Catalans and Catalans died from the year 2013 until the year 2017 waiting, in this case, for a place of residence of great people. And that's what we want to try to avoid ourselves and that's what we're trying to do, because behind the figures, behind the numbers, there are people, there are people, and in many cases there are family dramas, right? And, look, we're not naive. Or, we know the financial situation that the Generalitat has, the lack of historical financing that the Generalitat has. We also say that in order to improve the generality's financing system, we must want to negotiate, in this case, a new generality's financing system. And that's why we've made them entry proposals. And, look, in different respects: you seem to have just given a couple of doors to the general assumptions of the State with a goal to the totality. We'll see, because it's hard for us to follow them – it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not –... I feel it, but it's impossible to make up a general assumption without knowing if we have 390 million euros more or less. You can't negotiate, that's it. They have to tell us yes or no, and we have to know. I guess the week you've gone by, we'll just find out and get a clean picture. But, anyway, I'm not demagogic, am I? I don't mean 2,200_millions: it's 390. Because you said to us, "We'll see if these parties you're talking about are there. There are, to the general assumptions of the State, and you know it: the 350 that you agreed and the 41 that we pulled out, in this case, for the financing of public transport. And this goes directly to the premise of the Generality, for social policies, for Mossos, for financing public transport. And you have to clarify whether they want them or not. I know it's very complicated, yes; our president told us today: the political situation is deeply complicated. But you also say that we need to do politics and that we need to abandon the judicial process. If we're in full agreement, that's what it is. It's political: so it's political, because here there are some people who just want gasoline, and that every day they want to be gasoline in Catalonia and gasoline in the State. So, look, I don't know if we're going to have any more general state assumptions with as much social dimension as we've achieved in common we can. So, I don't know if we're going to have any assumptions again, I don't know if for many years we're going to have a government conditioned on a majority of progress like ours. You also decide what is best for the political, economic and thousands of Catalans. And, look, I'm telling you: if you want to be the Convergence of the 21st century, a little order. Therefore, say 'nssi there are 390_million more presuppositions or not, and so we can know if the presuppositions square or not square – I don't know if, therefore, we can know. And then, in taxation, I say it's a drag. Because in the end they end up voting with Citizens and the PP to drop our proposals into taxation. Look, I don't know, I know it's hard to say it here, but it's that, of course... I said it the other day – I said it –: ever since the Republican Left runs the Economy Council, it's been impossible to change taxes to higher returns or great heresies. Or else, he's got something that I think he deserves, which is that in this case, Mr. Mas-Colell and even Mr. Montoro are sitting on his left in taxation. Home, congratulations! Follow him, he's a pain in the ass! That's right, a left-wing game that gets Mr. Montoro and Mr. Mas-Colell through the left. Well, then she's gonna ask why she doesn't have a presupposition agreement with us. So, well, because to the fact I am referring to its concrete policies. And, look, I already know that we might cheat on these resources, as you say: "Well, the resources in IRPF will arrive two years from now. If two years ago we approved the modification of the IRPF required by the CUP, we might now have more money to make assumptions or to make social policies, because it's never the time to play high returns – never. Ever since you manage Economy, it's never the time to touch, in this case, taxes to make them high. So, so, I'm also asking who's the deal that they want to get. Look, our proposals are realistic, from here and there, and they have to see what happens to Catalans and Catalans in here and there, and we need more tickets. We are aware, and we are proposing more tickets, because, if not, it is impossible to do so, because there is the rule of spending, because there is insufficient funding... but there are thousands of Catalans and Catalans who can't wait any longer. And I also say it, for example, in IRPF, I recommend a study – recently published – on tax decentralisation and mobility, which shows that, despite what is claimed, the recaptancy of the IRPF, if it increases in this case to high returns, increases despite the possible fiscal mobility there. So, what we say we believe is also sustained, and... I don't know, if we plant, in this case, what Mrs. Occasio poses to the United States I suppose we would infarct, huh? , because a 70_per_cent to the yields they cover, in this case, more than 10_million_dollars, so I guess we'll have a heart attack. I finish what I gave him: look, we need assumptions. I disagree, but we need real social assumptions that shield public servants in this case.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.182.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.183.0	And I'm telling him I think you've already had the presupposition prorogation, because, if you don't, I don't understand – and I'm telling you this, honestly –...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.184.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.185.0	... his way of negotiating. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.186.0	Thank you. It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.187.0	Well, then, we didn't think we would intervene at this point, we went to vote against it, as we did, respect that same point, in the previous budget exercise, but that became a debate on the assumptions and, therefore, we will intervene. First of all, and respect the increase in current expenditure in certain areas, such as health, social welfare or teaching, we have already explained this in another intervention, but this year it has an additional 2,700_million euros. Why? So because there is more economic activity and economic activity makes administrations enter more money. Despite this, despite the 2,700_million euros more, only the Generality will be able to spend 1,600_million euros, this 1,660_million euros of which the Vice-President spoke. We appreciate you saying that the assumptions are insufficient, and not this rhetoric that we've been feeling that these assumptions put life in the center. Then, if there has been this increase in entry for an increase in economic activity, it has been precisely because this competitiveness of enterprises has gained at the cost of reducing the working conditions of workers and at the cost of precaritating people. What's that supposed to mean? That this precariousness of the working conditions of the majority of workers has also resulted in an increase in this social demand and, therefore, in this demand for expenditure on part of these health, social and educational departments. That is to say, the normal thing is: when you push the tickets because it has increased the economic activity, so the people with the most money and, therefore, the demand for social services is reduced. So no, in that case it didn't happen that way. And that is precisely why companies have gained competitiveness at the cost of reducing the material living conditions of the majority of the people and workers. For another band, and respect the Fons de Facilitat Financera. This autonomy is like a triangle: when we push people closer, when we are more political than the few privileged ones who make money at the expense of the misery of the majority of workers, and, therefore, when we scan more public servants, and when we spend less money on sanitation, and how much more detail there is, therefore, more ability to make decisions. That is, when we want to promote transformative policies or attack this social emergence, autonomy is limited. And, therefore, if you are obedient, if you pay the debt, if you answer to the objective of financial rehabilitation, that you mean misery for the people, you are not worried, that you have more ability to do politics. In turn, if you do respond to people's rights and needs, we will have less political capacity. And from here we can talk about the Finance Facility Fund, because we've been obedient. And being obedient meant many and many years of detail. Now the solution is to get back to the financial markets, because this way, with the Finance Facility Fund, we can have more room for action and there isn't so much control? Look, the lives of control, the lives of being able to focus on which is the activity or political action of this Parliament are multiple, on the part of the State and on the part of the financial markets, more than the control measures that were equipped to the FLA or the Fons de Facilitat Financera. And, on the other hand, I would also like to know why we have been in debt, with which end we have contracted a debt that today we are still paying. Where's a financial audit? Where is there an audit... beyond a financial audit, a citizen audit that we can value for why all this debt has been contracted that today we are paying citizens and citizens? Well, you said we'll have to do whatever we can with the tickets they let us have. So, look, what we're giving him is that we don't have to focus on the tickets they let us have, but we have to be braver and law-making. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] in favor of the people if they go further...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.188.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.189.0	...of the current legal framework. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.190.0	Thank you very much. We are now with the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia; I will return to Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.191.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, advisors and advisors, if I did not get it wrong, we were at a point on the order of the day that it was the validation of a law decree, that it is known as the presuppositional prorogation, it was not a strictly presuppositional debate, and that it is not a presuppositional prorogation, because the presuppositional prorogation is automatic and, as the Vice-President has explained, therefore, it is a matter of some aspects that are collateral to the presuppositional prorogation, basically the authority to be indebted in order to be able to pay the depreciations, that is, to reduce the debt. This is a classic, just like the decree, it's a classic, from now on... ; since the year 2011 that the assumptions have not been processed on time, when the Law of Public Finance of Catalonia asks it, right? And it's a process, too, so that you can pay the debt's depreciation in some cases, in some other cases also staff issues so you can cover the vacancies, as it's the second exercise with the presuppositional prorogation that we're in. Therefore, it is complete with this decree that we have already said on other occasions: it is a classic for its repetition; it is a journey to be able to exercise effectively the presuppositional extension, but there is also a point of exceptionality, which is not usual, huh? The April of the year we also found ourselves with a point of exceptionality. And I'll explain why. The exception is because when it gets used to dealing with this decree it's either because the premise is in negotiation with parliamentary groups or the assumption is in parliamentary process, so it's already been approved for the government and they're already, somehow, running the terms and getting through. So the exceptionality is here. This assumption, which we know and for which we have heard today, is neither in negotiations with parliamentary groups nor in parliamentary proceedings, is it not? Therefore, this exceptional point is given that I insist that it was given the April of last year, but the April of last year was because it had applied 155 and there was no government. But it's that the feeling we have today is that there's no government there either. And now there's not 155. Or, as the government is not concerned with what should be done, among other things, trying to negotiate a presumption, trying to bring a presumption to this Parliament. And that's not what the government did, is it? And the counselor says to us, and tomorrow we will have the opportunity to talk more about it, with an inquiry..., the counselor says to us: "Listen, the assumptions are at the top of the table. So we don't know, because we... in the middle of our table are not. I don't know about the rest of the parliamentary groups; he gave me the impression that he didn't. If it isn't that it refers to the table of Mr. Pedro Sánchez or that of the mediator. I don't know. But to the table of parliamentary groups that we are that at one time or another we will have to discuss these assumptions that we don't know..., listen'm, no, we don't know them, we don't know anything about them. And it's been a long time since they've been introduced. I'm done. You can imagine, obviously, that we will not subscribe to the validation of this decree; we will not object to it, because we understand that, therefore, it is clearly necessary to approve it in order to make the extension effective and to comply with the commitments and, therefore, to complete with a series of minimums that are payable; we will abstain in the validation of this decree. And finally, counselor, tell him that we are celebrating the receptivity that you have had in relation to the proposal to abolish the IRPF's inheritance and reduction tax that we presented last week, right? because you said you were willing, therefore, to talk about tax proposals and so on. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I guess for... clar, here it is. I imagine, by the look on your face, you shouldn't be referring to us. You've already embarrassed us that after you've known them so many years, you've had a ramp of common sense and you might have thought about lowering taxes to the city of Catalonia, that we're the Spaniards who pay more. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.192.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Lluís Salvado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.193.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, well, as Mr Rodríguez also pointed out now, we are here today to speak, as did the Vice-President of the Government, of the validation of a decree, of a decree of the Government of the Government of Catalonia; in fact, the validation of the first decree which, later on, the Government of Catalonia approved; a decree which was relatively similar to that which was approved at the beginning of the year, with 155, and also certainly similar to that which was approved later years. And it is a decree which, as has been explained, derives from this situation of extension and which needs or intends to cover those basic needs, those needing day-to-day administration, the Government of the Generality, and which intend to give response also to some needy in the field of approval of the public employment offers of the Generality and the joint public administration linked to the entire public sector. It is a very technical decree, and it seems that it has generated little interest, its content, among the Members who preceded us in the use of the word. And surely it's logical; it's logical because today's debate is not so fixed on what this trace of a painting that ends up feeling all this parliamentary debate, but today's debate has certainly much more transcendence is this mark, it's the conjunction of the debate linked to the general assumptions of the Spanish State, the assumptions that are trying to push from the same government of the Government of Catalonia. The groups that have intervened before, especially the Socialist Group and the group of the commons, have put a lot of emphasis on asking and wanting to know why not the groups that support the Government of Catalonia gave support to the assumptions of the State. And, in fact, I'll keep trying to give him some answers, because no, even though it seems very obvious to me. And in any case, I've also been..., or I've missed the fact that they explain why they don't belong to the assumptions of the Generality of Catalonia, and I've noticed that they lack the reason why, between the very thing we want, between the much more and the more that the Government of the Generality of Catalonia offers, they end up sorting out the nothing or end up sorting out the same. And, therefore, it seems to me that it is also good that this explanation is given as to why we finish or end certain groups sorting to be..., or sorting to stay as we are instead of having the opportunity to have more. I try to give some thought to why not to these general assumptions of the State, as asked by the Socialist groups and the commons. In any case, it seems to me that the context in which we find ourselves is an absolute abnormality. We find ourselves in a situation of political prisoners, of exile; we find ourselves in a context..., surely in one of the most critical weeks for democracy, for the history of our country, a few days from some judges, of some judges who will certainly re-mark a point of historical inflection for many citizens of Catalonia ; surely a similar inflection to that which Catalonia has taken from the judgment of July 2010, to take from the porrades of October 1, 2017. We see and see how Vox, the true spearhead of the State's apparatuses, together with the prosecution, with the lawyer, with the courts, ask, filter, insinuate drawings of prison years for the legitimate representatives of democracy in this country, those who were elected for the citizenship of Catalonia. And all this treachery between Catalonia and Spain..., a treachery already announced by President Montilla the year 2007, in a conference held in Madrid, which warned of this distance, of this disaffection between many Catalans respect the Spanish State. And I'm sure we're on this path, with some absolutely fast marches. Before the representative of Ciutadans was asked why from 2012 Convergence went from autonomy to independence. Perhaps it would be good if they made some thought of why the country, why millions of Catalans and Catalans, only in a bunch of years, had made a change of this affection respect the Spanish State, in such a fast way, because, surely, if they analyzed the causes, they would have many of the answers and, surely, avoid that this situation continued to make itself more difficult every time. In any case, in this context, obviously, in a context of political repression of the former Government of the State – and of the present – it is very complex that we face a negotiation of presuppositional character. But, in any case, to enter into a presuppositional negotiation, the first one to be dialogue and, before, the intervention of the Vice-President and also the Deputy of Commons discussed whether there were six sectoral meetings, plus three or four general meetings, two meetings between the Government of Catalonia and the Group of Commons to discuss the assumptions of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Do you know how many meetings the PSOE government has had with the Republican Parliamentary Group at the Congress of Deputies? Zero. The government of the PSOE, I repeat, with the Republican Parliamentary Group, at the Congress, have held zero meetings to talk about the assumptions of the Spanish State for the year 2019, and it is obvious that when a group, a government does not have the majority enough and brings some assumptions to the Congress of Deputies, and does not bring to an end a meeting with the groups that claim to support it, it is obvious that we are not before a presupposition, but we are before a political management, an act of political propaganda. In any case, it also refers to another element that seems to me to be worth highlighting, because it seems that it is obvious and seems that the Government of Catalonia is the only Administration of our context that is with extended assumptions; the Government of the State is with extended assumptions and, surely, will be for a long time; the Assembly of Barcelona is with extended assumptions, already since a couple of years ago. So, a few years ago it wasn't usual, today, it is, and today, it's everyday and, surely, the fraction of the political map to most administrations makes it difficult to pass the assumptions. But in any case, making a little reference or insisting on some of the questions that the Vice-President has already raised, these assumptions, this proposal of assumptions of the Government of Catalonia that we have from the table increases by 1,660_million euros the social expenditure, would increase, basically, destined to the Department of Education and the Department of Treball, would allow, practically, 4,700 teachers and teachers, to allow 850 new contracts to the Department of Health, of 750 new places of move, 250 new places of fire... Surely, they are insufficient, but that it is certain, that the assumptions that have been proposed and that they have given the table to the Government of the General that they have returned to the government at the same time that the government's not so-called "so-called "so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called "so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so. In any case, these assumptions also raise 300_million euros more for the guaranteed income of the city, 100_million euros more for the financing of the Metropolitan Authority of Transport, which are essential resources to be able to freeze the rates, as proposed by the Barcelona Assembly, or would allow to recover a significant part of the financing of the school Bressol or accelerate the return of the extra payment to the officials of the Administration of the Generality. It seems to me that the country urgently needs these resources, more masters, more meths, more moving, the country needs this presuppostary increment and, for this reason, the Government of Catalonia will continue without moving 'from the table, without moving 'from the table, trying to find formulas of understanding, to try to continue to carry proposals from the table because, finally, this country can equip itself with this most important in the budget marc, in order to be able to face all these needs. Anyway, there's also a short note. Despite the sound, despite the prognostic catastrophes that some fans have, the Catalan economy is growing and growing one point per side of the mid-euro area and we have four points per side of the rest of the Spanish state, so it seems to me that the catastrophic forecasts are not very real. In any case, with the approval of this decree, it allows us to help that day by day work as the country worked during this year 2018, which, despite all, despite the forecasts, has worked very well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.194.0	Congressman, time's up. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Congressman... Thank you, Congressman. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.195.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Councillors, Vice-Presidents, Members of Parliament, Mr Vice-Presidents, I am surprised that some parliamentary groups, such as the Socialist Group and the Unites pour Avançar, can normally talk about a process of approval of assumptions, huh? , of some parliaments, such as Canàries or València, which, as you say, approved it before Nadal, went to eat the toasts with the feta work, which can speak with this tranquility of a process of normality in other communities, when they have given support to a 155, which yes, it has spoiled democracy and welfare at our house. [[applause]] when they are complicit in "the therapy of the ibuprofe" and when they are complicit in a dialog in which they cannot speak of terms such as self-determination for Catalonia. Therefore, Vice-President, I know it is hard for us to attend this type of debate, but we must continue to do the work, as it does, as it has done with this proposal for the validation of this Decree 1/2019, of 8 genera, because we do the nice things, because we must follow the steps that fall, because this country, because our country continues to function as it does, with a situation of normality to which some parties and groups of this chamber have also engaged. As the Vice-President has already said, this decree deals with three articles and a final provision. The first woman, quite clearly, responds to these financial needs, has been explained in addition, from the Generality and previews some authorizations of some endorsements, but, unlike the Decree Law 1/2018, from March 9th, a _second article on public function, on the field of staff and I believe that this is important and we must note, the effort also to carry out these commitments in this room. And finally, a third tax article, which was also explained, related to the tax with legal acts and documented with notarial documents for the acquisition of declared protected habitats. Mirin, in the first article, there are issues as to how we can foresee new debt operations to cover planned depreciations already for the 2019 fiscal year and we have practical cases. Where on top of this? So above, for example, in the case of the Hospital Consorci Hospitalari de Vic that could increase the debt that is derived from a process of integration with the Fundació de l'Hospital Sant Jaume de Manlleu. So, we need to be loving about this. As we also have to be, for example, of another public right entity that assumes the provision of public health services to the city of Reus and its area of influence with the assumption of the financial liabilities derived from the construction of the University Hospital of Sant Joan. Mirin, we are really talking about presuppositional parties of attention to our system of salvation, quality issues that affect very many – very many – people of Catalonia, whatever the orientation of their vote. In this case we are talking about government responsibility, but we are also talking about country responsibility, that each person assumes that part that is close to him. In this same first article and in another point it is said to authorize different endorsements. And here, for example, there are organizations such as the Barcelona Science Park or the Biomedical Research Park Consortium because they can actually deal with prestec operations or beasts that have been handled by the same General Administration of the State and, therefore, they can opt for different calls. Therefore, let's move forward to support innovation and keep the country running. Also at the cost of financial operations that subscribe to cooperatives with sections of credit, important especially in the fabric and in the rural area, or in another order of operations, for example, that have an economic impact on certain spaces and in a tourist way as it can be related to the world of sport, the circuits of Catalonia to be able to face the contract promoter with the championship of Formula 1 worldwide, for two certains, on 19 and 20. But also important is the issue of the University Aid Management Agency to support the financial entities that have signed the agreed correspondents, as is obvious, so that they can endorse the loans formalized for the students. Therefore, this helps this access to the university domain of all students who need to have these credits. I also believe that it is important for the Government to authorize guarantees, for example, to the ICF for lending to the promotion of trade and development in the industrial sector; for me a clear engine of operation in our country and also to the financing of peppers and autonomes which, as has been said on other occasions, constitute the basis of the industrial fabric and production in our home. We are also talking about agri-food businesses, social economy companies and cultural projects. The importance of the second article, I will not mention it; it has come out, but I believe that the issue of guaranteeing the offer of public employment is appropriate for me. There has also been a commitment to creating new places, especially in terms of security or also of ICS or masters, and I think it is important to have the necessary equipment because it continues to guarantee the functioning of the public services that all of us want. Mr Mirin, ladies and gentlemen, the extension, as the Vice-President also said, puts the Generality in a complicated financial situation. Surely it is not the desirable situation for a government, but at this point what we would like to be discussing – there has almost been a beginning of this debate of assumptions – we would like to be discussing the assumptions. Obviously, yes, but I'll say it too – and I won't go into a data war as tried from the Ciutadans Group – because to the head and the fi is that, Mr. Spinosa,... is that sometimes we seem to read the data in different places. Clearly, we drink different fonts. And this is not just an ideology issue, it must be predisposed to tend these data. So I'm not going to go into a data war at all because I know from the start that we won't agree. But I'm referring, I'm sorry, to the announcement made to us by the vice president, the release of the FLA and being able to attach us to the Fons de Facilitat Financera. Of course we are moving forward and taking steps at the level of Catalonia, of course we are. He has presented us with this preliminary draft assumptions, this powerpoint as some groups have referred to it. Presuppositions that wanted to allocate more than EUR 26,000_million to expenditure will not, not finalist, finance with an increase of these 1.660_millions that was referred to here today. Some assumptions thought, as a government thinks, that it is to guarantee public services ensuring the prosperity of all, of citizens in a responsible and sustainable way, in accordance with redistribution and social cohesion, as it cannot be otherwise. And what are we talking about? We're talking about recovering the Department of Education at the pre-crisis time level, say it as usual, with an increase of more than 4,500 teachers. We are talking about an increase of more than 500_million for Salut – to all people atenen des de Salut, not just those who vote for a certain independence ideology – with an increase of 200 places of professionals of the ICS. We are talking about an increase, which has already been said in this chamber, in terms of security, of 750 places of movers and 250 places of bombers. We're talking about recovering public rights from working, with a recovery on one side of the external payments. We do not doubt the words of a person who is working specifically on these issues and on our government. We are talking about prosperity; we are talking about deploying the National Pact for Industry; we are talking about optical fiber throughout the country; we are talking about the National Pact for the Knowledge Society; we are talking about an important increment in the Department of Treball, Social Action and Families to deploy the guaranteed income of citizenship and the program of dependence in which everyone, we follow the color that we follow, we have someone related that we know needs it and we cannot lower the guard; we are talking about new measures of access to university studies and, finally, of increasing the presumption of culture as a basic, inclusive, of citizenship in our country. Look, let us take a long and broader look at the parties concerned, the coherence and responsibility for adopting responsible assumptions for our country, which deserve the citizens and citizens of Catalonia, to which they have been subjected to a situation of imprisonment, exile, and in a situation of abnormality and judicialization of the policy which leads us to live in a scene of injustice, to which our legitimate political leaders have taken up, but to which they have also taken an important part of the citizenship of our home. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.196.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. Tell me, Mrs Romero, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.197.0	For direct allusions of the Lady Pallarès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.198.0	For allusions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.199.0	Yes, from Mrs. Pallarès. Yes, by allusions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's because of contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.200.0	All right, all right. For contradictions; thirty_seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.201.0	Miri, ma'am Aragonès..., ai, ma'am Pallarès [[Rialles.]] Like they said more or less the same... [[Widow's remorse.]] Miri, Catalonia has some problems like the country and some challenges that it can face, and who must face them, in part, is this Parliament; but, above all, it is its government. And the responsibility of this government is to present assumptions. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] That we'd like to see...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.202.0	Shut up, everybody, you've got the word Mrs. Romero!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.203.0	... because you talk a lot about democracy and transparency, but these assumptions I don't know what the table is, but not to ours, nor to this Parliament, because we haven't seen them. Therefore, present them, teach them, and from here we can negotiate to see if they can be approved. But it's just that you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.204.0	Mrs. Romero, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.205.0	...don't introduce them. So, they're doing their job. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So much so that they are allusions! That Mrs Pallarès has been telling the Socialists, the Socialists... So now I answer to you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.206.0	Mrs. Romero, it's run out of time. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.207.0	Home, it's all right – it's all right. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.208.0	We called for a vote. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Quiet! Miss Romero, you no longer have the twist of the word. [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]] They know that, according to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and that the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. So let's proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 1/2019. The vote begins. Decree 1/2019_is validated by 60 votes in favour, 4 against and 65 abstentions. In accordance with Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, and once the decree has been validated, it is up to me to ask the chamber whether any parliamentary group wants this decree to be passed as a bill. Is there any group I'd like to do that? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Therefore, as long as there is no petition, the decree will not be dealt with as a bill of law and is given by validated. We suspend the session until 3.45 p.m., three-quarters of four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.209.0	Good afternoon, let's resume the session. [[Coastal Planning Law Project (totality debate)]] [[200-00007/12]] The fifth point of the order of the day is the debate of totality on the Law of the Order of the Coast. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules, the initiative is presented by the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. So, counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.210.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, to take advantage of the members of the management team of the Department of Territory and Sustainability who accompany us: the Secretary of Habitatge and Millora Urbana, the Lord Agustí Serra; also the Director General of Policies of Muntanya and the Litoral, the Lord Albert Alins, and also the rapporteur of the Law, who helped us in their elaboration, in Josep Maria Aguirre. It's worth presenting this bill of coastal law. The government approved the Bill of Law, October 2017, but the abrupt completion of the legislature, with the application of 155, put an end to parliamentary processing. It was stuck until, last October, October 2018, the government approved it again, we introduced it – in fact, also, on the press wheel after the Executive Council celebration – and today we bring it to Parliament with the conviction that it is a good law, that it is a law endorsed, we also believe, because it is a good law, that it is also a law endorsed – we believe, I insist – because of the fact that there are no parliamentary groups that have presented a goal to the totality. And, therefore, the debate in committee is appropriate and I am sure that among all of us we will be able to enrich it and make it a good capacity and a good governance of our coast. The new legislation will develop, they intend to develop the exclusive competence of the Government of the Generality in this matter, as provided for in the Statute. I want to articulate, for the first time, a model of integrated coastal management. I insist, it incorporates for the first time the maritime domain and also resolves, tries to solve the historical shortcomings of the planning of the costs of the State. A competition of the State in the matter of costs, developed from the Law on State coasts, of the year 1988. It's an ambitious law, it's a law that introduces, for the first time, the recommendations of the strategy to adapt the coast to the effects of climate change. This is a very important issue, basically for us, like the government. And therefore, we will not only age for the care of the environment, of the environmental and landscape values of the coast, but we also intend, with this law, to lie down the centre of decision to the city. In the Department of Territories and Sustainability, people are the most important. We want to start by giving them some data on the coast of Catalonia. The coast, our coast, is at a length of 826.5 kilometres. Of these, 613.9 correspond to the unurbanized line, while of the rest, 211, of the urbanized line, it is important to emphasize that there are 4_kilometres that are urbanized line with springs, tips and ears and that, 1,2_kilometres are the mouths of the river, so..., of rivers, of the rivers that we have in our country. We have 560 landings on the coast, which occupy about 280 kilometres of coastline. Of which, of these 560, 260 are natural platters. There are 70 municipalities with coastline, 12 comarques. There are 3,24_million people, 43_percent of the Catalan population is concentrated in these municipalities. It occupies 7_percent of the country's surface and is located – attention – 45_percent of the work places. In this area, on the coast, there are 78_percent of Catalan hotels; and 78_percent of campsites. This, taking into account that the tourist activity in Catalonia represents between a 12 and a 15_percent of our..., a 12_percent of GDP and a 15_percent of our occupation, shows how important this space is. It is also found – another given to take into account – the 55_percent of the second residences that our country has. With this description that we've done, they see that we find ourselves in a strategic space, a space that is now at risk for two reasons, all two reasons are captured in the Third Climate Change Report in Catalonia. In the first place, the regression will cost, with the rise of the sea level. And, secondly, everything you have to do with the threat posed by human activity, sun tourism and plagiarism, obviously, but we can talk, in general, about human activity. In this third report of the climate change, to which it refers a while ago, it is said that: « By the year 2060, the beaches of Catalonia will have about 140_kilometres of coastline very vulnerable to the effects of storms. Right now, with this very definition of high vulnerability, we have 61 kilometers. Therefore, a substantial increase in relatively short time. It is also pointed out in this third report that the adaptation of the coast to the climate change must involve an orderly sequence of actions, so that the result is sustainable. So, with all these data and all these concepts, the Coast Planning Act foresees: first, preventing and reducing the effects of natural risks that may be caused by natural or human activities. You also have – and this is very important – a law-regulated Catalan coastal planning plan that will have to contain coastal adaptation measures to the effects of climate change, according to the strategies that are being established. In fact, for the first time, this plan, this Catalan coastal planning plan, will ensure the actual effectiveness of the measures and recommendations contained in the strategies for adapting the coast to the effects of climate change. And it ensures that they are carried out immediately, thanks to the legal nature of the project, as well as to the urban director. It is a coastal planning plan, but it will act as an urban director, therefore, with the ability to impose itself on all the heads of planning, the territorial and obviously, also, the municipal. And it is expected that the content of this board will be updated, as at least, every two years, to ensure, precisely, its adequacy to a changing reality. It is also expected that the canon, the exploitation channel of the concessions on the public maritime domain, is destined for the better, for conservation, for the recovery and restoration of the own public maritime domain. All these considerations refer to coastal degradation, the first of the risks we have on the coast. In what you have to see with the second of the risks, what you have to see, precisely, with human activity, with the permanent and also with the temporary provoked by tourism, the Third report on climate change – we have already made reference on various occasions – it is about four great problems, which I also want to point out, which we also want to point out. In the first place, that there are now no regulatory policies that adjust – effective regulatory policies – that adjust the usage capabilities of the platter and its tourist offer. Despite the loss of sediments, the tourist and recreational pressure is increasing, which involves, in the long term, the dissatisfaction of citizens, of tourists, in short, of the users of the coast. Secondly, that the timetables for taking advantage of the beaches of the Catalan coast, of our beaches, established basically for the joints, are not adequate to the timetables of potential profit, for the atmospheric characteristics and the behavior of the users of the coast. Thirdly, that the import of tourism to the coastal municipality has dissipated the recreational function of plagiarism and has marginalized the functions, it has often marginalized, environmental and environmental protection functions, which must also exercise the coast, obviously. And finally, the high vulnerability of platters, which must be treated individually, assigning to each platter or to each tram cost the most appropriate management in each case. But now, defining a management model integrated by the Government of the Generality. This was an integral visit, a national one across the coast. We have expressed the characteristics of our coast, the risks before which it faces and therefore, we anticipate, we want to pull this law forward. A law that foresees solutions that define and regulate the capacity of use of the platters, their tourist offer, and we will expose them from three points of view, three large blocks from which we want to attack these problems. In the first place: everything you have to see about the use and occupation of the platters in form, as it cannot otherwise be, respectful with diversity. To the law, it is proposed to establish a classification of platges that exceeds the duality of urban and natural platges, and that is better suited to the territorial diversity of the country. We want to regulate a topology of natural platings, which, precisely for their natural values, are incompatible, totally incompatible with the presence of installations and services. They will agree with us that we cannot treat the same – this is a phrase that we often repeat when we explained the law of the territory – we cannot treat like a cove of the Cape of Creus, a platter of the Bad of Roses or the urban platter of..., any urban platter of our cities, of the municipalities..., of the city of Barcelona, without going further. This classification, more precise than the plages, will define equally, logically, the maximum limit of the occupations of the plages trams depending on its, let's say, load capacity. All this will help the Generality and the joints to define the uses of the various beaches, and to make their preservation compatible with the most touristic activity. Second of all, the problems we're dealing with from the law. So let's just see how to overcome seasonality centered on the months of the season. The new coastal use plans and the landings, which will have a duration of four years and a planning that will exceed the months strictly of the season, include activities that require authorization in the public domain, any of the twelve months of the year. In addition, the activities authorized by an assembly for their occupations, say, more sporadic, more possible, by means of demuntable installations, will be carried out. And, all in all, what we need to be allowed to do is to be able to expand, this is a very important concept, to be able to extend the enjoyment of the beaches, beyond the months of the season, thus guaranteeing a genuine tourist seasonalization. Finally, in the third place, solutions that allow individualized management models of platings in the mark of an integrated management model. This is why the law envisages two planning instruments that guarantee an individual management model of each platter tram, in the framework of an integral management that until today did not exist, beyond the effective protection of the Directorate General of Urbanism, through the commissions of urbanism, which gives logical coherence, from territorial planning and urbanism, to each of the municipal initiatives. This legislative technique, with various planning instruments, will avoid evenly regulating the coastline and will enable the regulation to be adapted to the territorial diversity of the country. This overcomes the many times criticized model of State Cost Law, which is overly uniforming. We don't like this uniform we've seen under the state legislation for many years. These two instruments are, in the first place, at the national level, the coastal planning plan, which will define, among others, the classification and categorization of the platters. We will determine the capacity to load, the territorial criteria for responding to requests for authorizations and seasonal services, the criteria for resolving concessions, the establishment of normative or appropriate measures of action necessary to preserve the integrity of the geomorphology of coastal ecosystems and landscapes and the establishment of the regulation of coastal features; all this through the coastal planning plan. And the second great planning tool, at local level – the first was at national level – are, will be the coastal use plans and the landings. Among other things, these use plans will specify the regulation of seasonal services and other authorities, the regulation of the use of platges, the determination of activities that may be authorized to platja by joints, the establishment of criteria for an adequate landscape integration, the obligation to adapt the activities proposed to the regulations, for example, of acoustic contamination. HI will therefore have these two instruments, one at national and one at local level. But to advance in this desire integrated management, this integral view of our coast, it will also create, through participation, the board of directors of the coastal planning board and the board of directors of the coastal plans and the beaches. We want them to remain co-legitimate bodies, participate for the administrations and the social and economic representatives, which will be old for the implementation of plans and exercise the functions of participation, consultation, supervision of management and evaluation of the compliment of objectives. This, to be sure, is one of the most important elements of the new planning. We will also deploy the exploitation channel of activities, provided in the Royal Decree of the transfer of competitions of the year 2008, with which, by means of this channel, it will allow the Generality to allow the new concessions that presuppose the exploitation of an activity to rise with a percentage on the volume of the annual net benefits; a fund that, as we have said, will be destined to improve the public domain marine land catalá, will be a finalist fund to be able to act on the territory. And last but not least, a very important thing for our department, which is that the bill puts the emphasis on aspects of public participation both for what it does to the guarantee of public information, of all the information related to concessions and authorizations – transparency in this aspect – as in relation to the creation of spaces of participation and decision-making bodies. It is particularly innovative, in the configuration of this law, which we call the Litoral Order Board, an ad hoc town planning commission for the whole coast, with functions of resolve, consultation and information, attended by departments and local authorities, but also for people with professional prestige in terms of costs, urbanism and the environment. I ended up with some..., make some final conclusion. The law will mean an ambitious, more ambitious, coastal-ordering capability that has never been approved. It allows us to move forward to a new model of coastal management that incorporates for the first time, I insist, the maritime public domain, solves the shortcomings of the state order of costs, the classic state order of costs. We want to overcome the state of mind and administration. The solutions must allow an approach to the diversity of our coast, with differentiated strategies that take into account the protection of the natural space and its relation to a strategic activity of the country such as tourism, the use of the same coast. Therefore, protection and relationship with the activity, with its use. In the field of climate change, the law first guarantees the actual effectiveness of the measures and recommendations contained in the Coastal Adaptation Strategy to the effects of climate change, thanks, I insist – this is a very important point – to the legal nature of the plan as well as to the urban director. This law, finally, we believe that it is a necessary tool to deploy us instruments that allow us to advance in the articulation of legal solutions in order to face the challenges, the enormous challenges that we have set and that will certainly lay the foundations for a sustainable and advanced model, a new model of ordering our coastline. Thank you, President, Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.211.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now it's the turn of parliamentary groups to fix their position, in a turn of two minutes, maximum, per parliamentary group and five per subgroup. It has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Marina Bravo. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.212.0	Yes, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors, advisors, coastal areas are very particular environments, with enormous natural wealth that we all quickly recognize. They are also a source of great socio-economic wealth. This can be seen very quickly on any map on which the population, density or any other index is drawn; immediately we see very graphically the attractiveness of the coast, the activity it generates. Well, if we want our generations and future generations to be able to enjoy both the natural wealth and the socio-economic wealth of our coastline, we have to put our batteries on; that is clear. The competitive map of the coast is very complicated; it has been said here by the councillor and is very highlighted in the explanatory statement of the bill. We have the sea walks, the beaches, the maritime-terrestrial public domain... but this is not an anomaly of Spain nor should it be an obstacle. All over Europe, states, regions and local governments co-exist, cooperate and act in a coordinated manner on their coasts, in search of an efficient administration that ensures the coherence of this concurrent management on the coast. So much so that the European Parliament and the Council have issued recommendations which refer precisely to these three levels of competence. The Protocol itself on the integrated management of coastal areas in the Mediterranean, referred to in the introduction of the draft law as a protocol to be followed, is structured precisely around this division of competences between states, regions and local authorities. So do not try to make the mess, which is what it seems, not in terms of your intervention but in the explanatory statement, when you seem to show that Spain is failing to comply with the European recommendations on this integrated management. Because when European recommendations and protocols speak of integrated management – which they do – they do not in any way refer to or indicate, as it seems they want to imply, that this management is concentrated at a single administrative level, but rather quite the opposite: when European protocols speak of integrated management they refer precisely to a management that perfectly integrates all existing levels. That is what we need and that is what all the European protocols refer to. In particular, the Protocol on the Integrated Management of Coastal Areas of the Mediterranean expressly states: "The competent State, regional and local authorities of coastal areas shall work together to strengthen the coherence and effectiveness of the strategies, plans and coastal programmes established. The truth is that it doesn't seem much like that is the intention of this Government, when it has done nothing but criticize the strategy of the Spanish Coast Law. Well, it is true that this project talks about implementing coastal management plans, as well as coastal and beach use plans. To the extent that we do believe that these plans can be useful in moving towards the goal of integrated management, we welcome them; we will allow this law to continue its processing. But let us be told something that is reinforced precisely after his intervention: at this point much more is needed than a bill to truly believe that the Government wants to work with an integrated management of nothing in which several administrative levels, and in particular that of the State, can participate; much more is needed than a bill that says so for us to create it. And it is that you bring here a law in which the explanatory statement speaks primarily of integrated coastal management, and you fill your mouth – you have done it again here and it is often named in the law – with European protocols that are about cooperation, coordination and loyalty, which is just the opposite of what you do. I am not saying this, I am saying this because we have been given many reasons; and, if not, simply remember that the Transitional Law on State Coast Officials was saying, what were their plans for them, because of course it seems to me that it is no example of cooperation or loyalty, and it is a case that directly affected me, too, in my position as a State public worker. They will recognize that after passing a law such as that of transitoryity, they have lost a little – a little – credibility in wanting to collaborate in an integrated management of all administrations, which is what is really needed on our shores. It takes a lot more than a bill like the one we are presented here to make us believe it. And it's a shame, because it's true that the challenge of taking care of our coastline is very great. Coastal areas are an irreplaceable ecological, economic and social resource. Throughout the whole of the European Mediterranean, of all things, there is a human pressure on coastal areas that threatens the fragility of the sea and its biodiversity. And Catalonia is no exception; we have recently seen news in various places where we have a worrying situation. But it is also that climate change – he has mentioned – adds new risks, such as the rise of sea level or the negative effects of natural disasters, which we have also faced. The General Administration of the State, the Generalitat of Catalonia and the coastal municipalities have to work hard to control these risks and stop or, in certain cases, even reverse the degradation of the coast. And they have to work together – together – by hand. This bill articulates mechanisms that may be useful for such cooperation and for coordination among administrations, but we have already said that we would be greatly surprised, although we would be gratefully surprised, to be used with loyalty. What hasn't surprised us so much is the canon. They could not let go of a new bill to introduce a new tax, tax, canon or whatever, so that it would not be enough for us to be the autonomous community that pays the most taxes. In short, we will have time to debate during the presentation of the law on this canon and on other points, in order to get to pass a law that we do hope is a good law. And we hope above all that by the time I have to apply we will have a new government that really works for all Catalans and governs for all. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.213.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. All the same, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the return of Mr Jordi Terrades. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.214.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselor, my parliamentary group will not a priori make a judgment of value on the intentions of the Government, will it? Miri, the European Parliament, or the Council, have been recommending a series of years ago, justly recommending an integrated management of coastal areas in Europe and in particular the coastal areas of the Mediterranean. So far, coastal planning in Catalonia has been segmented, probably because we have a distribution or because we have a complex competition distribution and various administrations that act on the environment to cities, municipalities or towns, the Generalitat, the same State, right? Now, the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy, the existing and, therefore, fully legal Statute, clearly establishes as the exclusive competence of the Government of Catalonia the ordering of the territory of the coast, and also of urbanism. And more so in our women executive skills in maritime rescue, in which she refers to the control of industrial and contaminant mouths, and other types of exclusive skills, too, right? , as you said and fixed the law: establish, regulate the territorial planning of the planning, the use of the coast, the use of the landings; also the management of the occupation titles of the activities in the maritime strip. I'm saying this because we like it and we're pleased that the government is developing the Statute of Catalonia and that you're leading to what are the exclusive powers of the Generality, huh? It's okay, from time to time, to land, and throw in front of it than regular to improve the physical space that exoplugs us to all folds. And when I'm talking about aixoplugar, I'm not talking only about human beings, but about the conjunction, are I? , of the territory. Therefore, this law stands in the way of statutory legality. We, on the way in, support your processing, as it couldn't be any other way, right? Why, it doesn't just develop a statutory competence, but it listens to a recommendation from Europe to propose an integrated management model, which is not incompatible with the individual treatment of some of the areas of our coastal system; an integrated model that cannot be left out of the band, from our point of view, municipal administration, huh? Why? Because, from our visit, the gatherings are the main stakeholders, and they are more important actors, in the good way they are given to the coast, of the activities that are planned to be located on the same coast, above all, to the most urban flats. The Socialists of Catalonia have always considered it a good principle to apply the principle of subsidiarity. Why do we say that? We said so because, as long as part of the impacts that occur on the maritime strip, especially when we are talking about work-related activities or activities, installations legally implemented on the area of service, or transit, are usually produced in sensitive areas, from the point of view of the municipalities. Therefore, we are of the opinion that we need to establish more precisely, more clearly, what is the level of action of each of the administrations, in the Government of the Generality, but also of the assemblies. We believe that we can take over the joints, too, in a more effective way in the management of the coast. Say it another way, huh? We did not think it was certain, and we have seen that some of the lines of action could give little to this vision that we have, to dispose of the joints of that which the state legislation did recognize. So, we're going to try to specify this position, especially in terms of seasonal services, huh? Especially in this respect. We believe, therefore, that the role of the assemblies, which reserves it this law, must be superior to that which is reserved for it by the current wording of the law. It is a vision that we have, that some assemblies have also made it to my parliamentary group. And, above all, what it is to specify clearly and precisely the powers and functions of coastal inspection, of each of the administrations, of the Government of the Generality, but also of the joints, and to fix what is the level that corresponds to each of them. And not only from the inspection, but from those measures of protection of legality relating to the restoration of altered physical reality, which we often find in the coastal strip of our country. Without entering it in a generic way either – now it is not a matter of entering into details, we will enter into the papers that we will present – the law cannot make it clear that the city of Barcelona has a municipal charter, that it is also law, and that the current law, from our point of view, cannot lick it or modify it, because the letter of Barcelona gives attributions, also, to the city of Barcelona in the matter of managing the coast and its beaches. We also think, and we will do so, that the law does not clearly and precisely address the financing appropriate to the coastal municipalities, in order to deal with some of the eateries that the law instructs them to the municipality, right? We will have time to discuss in question the canons, the taxes, whether there are competitions or double taxations, in the light of the legal report made by the legal adviser of his department, but also in the light of the judgments of the Constitutional Court. And, finally, I would like to refer, too, to the third climate change report, which the Councillor has referred to, because it is not only about things going on around, is it not? , of the beaches or of the maritime-terrestrial domain, but we have to take very much into account the effects that this climate change report can produce on these eight hundred kilometers of the coast of Catalonia; not all of the same measure and intensity, but they can produce phenomen, and we can apply management policies to adapt our coastal areas to these effects of the climate change. Sometimes, when the handles come we get – and a part of the platters is taken – to recover them immediately. Perhaps you will find 'if you reflect calmly on these phenomena and how they are modified, fruit of nature, but also fruit of the action of administrations and people, on our costs. You have made reference that we have a linear _kilometre and port drop. Well, we'll also have to reflect on the effects of ports on our beaches and the coast. In the previous legislature we were debating, too, in parliamentary question a law of ports, which was practically very mature, there was quite a broad consensus– there are discrepancies–, I tell you that why we do not bring it again and we discuss it, and we have just made the whole package. And as we're talking about climate change, I'm going back to insist another time, and I know it's not the first time I'm saying it, but I want to face, too, those provisions that the Climate Change Act had in place, and we think that the government should... and the parliamentary groups should start to unhook one of the climate change Act's phonenal fish, which is the committee of experts, huh? , which is what has to activate some of the measures of the Climate Change Law, which also affect the law that you submitted to us today. And with these fourteen seconds left, we'll probably also have to rethink globally, not just the most immediate strip, but the five-cent-meter-highest coastline and how we develop urban planning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.215.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and on behalf of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.216.0	Sensing the company that preceded me, I seem to begin with the fourteen-seconds that were missing, and I will focus much of my intervention on what we are doing with the urban management of the coast of Catalonia. We celebrate that this bill is a gift, that European recommendations for integrated management are heard and that the competences of the State are developed. But I think it's a law proposal that doesn't count on totality, and therefore I will focus my intervention on those lines that we believe we need to work together to develop and improve this law proposal. The first thing I would like to do is a public recognition of all the citizens and all the entities that during these years have worked within the territory, focusing on the need to stop the destruction of our coast; an indefatigable job, which begins to give up small conquests and begins to force the government to change its position and to start taking the order of the coast seriously. This day replenishes the manifesto of SOS Costa Brava, and I am sure that you will also read it, and replenish in new of the twenty-two municipalities of Costa Brava, twenty-two urban projects that will suppose neither more nor less than the construction of more than 2,200 habitats, of 4 hotels, of 1 golf course, and of 1 camping, between other constructions. And I think that this is an example that highlights a need that we have like the country, a need that we see on the coast of Catalonia, that we also see, in adjacent areas of the natural parks of Catalonia, like the same Parc de Collserola, and that we see in urbanistic discussions and in discussions about the price of the lloger. And it's just that the administrations put in place, once and for all, the purely speculative projects with the territory. It is necessary to put in place the urban speculation, to put in place the unbridled construction of speculative projects in the territory, and to put in place what is still today, after the real estate disaster in which they brought us the past decade, to continue to receive speculation with the soil and speculation with the right to housing. And I think in this, this bill of law is little ambition. And, from our point of view, it is little ambition because I did not include, in the bill, any political criteria on the regulation of urban ambitions on the coast of Catalonia that are today on the table. No political criteria that we can discuss today the assembly of parliamentary groups in this Parliament. And he proposes us, especially, basically two instruments; two planning instruments: one for the Government of Catalonia and one for the municipalities of Catalonia; but he does not propose any general criteria – he does not propose any general criteria – that we can discuss today on maximum load capacity, on distance to the coastal lines of the cities, on biodiversity management or on natural areas of particular interest. And we firmly believe that we should dare to become the articulation of the law's political criteria for limiting and regulating speculative ambitions, especially in this context where there are on the table speculative projects that will seriously damage the territorial cohesion of this country and the environmental quality of our costs. And the fundamental problem that does not place them in this law and that is relegating everything to the development of planning, is that in this Parliament we cannot discuss these criteria, which is what we would like to do. The problem is that it is not a purely technical discussion that can be made in an urban planning committee, it is a political discussion that needs to be made in this Parliament. Because it is a discussion about country model and how we want to reconcile private interests with the right to own territories and the right to enjoy a cohesive and managed territory in a sustainable way. This isn't a bill of law, and I think we'd agree, coast protection, it's a competition law bill of order. And we would be pleased to see that the law is framed, including elements of coastal protection. We agree with you: to order skills, to distribute skills and to develop the State, but to include, in this development of skills, general criteria that allow us to sort out the planning of the coast. Because we think that including you are very ambitious with the planning job, including in the normal rank you have donated, if we do not consider general criteria, to this planning job there may be missing elements that we consider indispensable. We believe that it should include legal criteria to define the capacity to load; in order to define in which areas of the coast today it is already impossible to carry out new urban projects; in order to define also which natural areas exist today on the coast we consider that they should be excluded from any urban project, and under which criteria we urge to review urban plans of the coastal junctions, or how the Generality will deal with the declassification of urban soils on our coast. And especially in these last two points we have great concerns; we have plans and urban plans for the real estate cylinder and for an excessively ambitious and overly unconcerned view of the environmental sustainability of our country, and we do not even contemplate any mechanism on how to deal with this discussion, no mechanism on how to declassify only, no mechanism on how to acquire only the public that is today in private hands to ensure its conservation and no foundations to equip us with economic capacity and also to equip together economic capacity and finance to do so. In short, we consider the presentation of this bill today to be good news, and we consider the assumption today of our own competitions in the order of the coast to be good news. But we don't think it's just a competition law project, but it's also, and above all, a coastal protection law project. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.217.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the return of the MP Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.218.0	Good afternoon to all – thank you. Many often titles help us to analyze and interpret, although it is obvious that not only with a title can we draw great conclusions, but in this case we do believe that it is important, right? We're talking about the Territorial Ordering Bill, and we think that part of it is already bad, because we think that what it is is, first, to recover; second, to protect, and third, to order. Therefore, we would like to be discussing a law of recovery, protection and coastal planning, because we believe that it is essential and urgent. In a simple title we can see what the intention is: to order. Neither recover nor protect, I insist. It's clear, the difference, isn't it? The Coastal Planning Law Project that presents the department is an articulated and designed to meet the needs of tourism sector growth, and not as a tool to improve the environmental quality and conservation status of our coastal ecosystems. The coast of the Catalan Countries has been, and is, in the spotlight of the great economic oligopolises with strong interests both in the urbanization of the coast and in the tourist exploitation of the coastal strip; a model that has not left a land without cement in many areas of the country and that still threatens the Costa Brava, for many urgent moratoria that they do in a context of municipal elections. The touristic and urban massif of the coast and of the beaches and the impacts derived from the anthropogenic pressure on the natural environment have made our coast an artificial and cemented environment, without the capacity of resilience towards the impacts of the climate change. In the third report on climate change we warned: "The level of the sea is increasing by almost four centimeters per decade, with important consequences for the coast and marine ecosystems. But this bill of law omits this warning, despite your speech and your rhetoric. Climate change is only mentioned twice in the whole text, while biodiversity does not appear directly, as the Association of Girona Naturalists had already announced. They can prove this, for example, by referring to Article 3 where sustainability is referred to in generic terms; or to Article 4, which does not include, for example, a plan for the recovery and conservation of the coast, or even in the plans and documentation proposed by this law to be presented, which does not incorporate a scientific look at the climate change. The scientist of climate change is turning it into an opinion, and that cannot be. The starting point that they make of their law does not include any need to talk about which are the scientific consequences of the climate change. I don't get my hands on the head, Counselor; I would also get them when the feeling speaks to me. From our perspective [[the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability intervenes without using the microphone]] This bill of law presents... [[Pause.]] It's just that he was trying to listen to her...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.219.0	Counselor, now it's the congresswoman's turn. Go on, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.220.0	We have said this many times, Mr. Counsellor: we do not have the same model, neither territorial nor environmental, nor the same environmental awareness. Deia, has three structural shortcomings: the global view of the bill is economic, in treating the coast as a commodity subject to the exploitation of the tourism sector; according to, the environmental question is relegated to a _second term and always subordinate to the logics of the market, and third, we are concerned about the ability to participate in social movements, ecological entities, and also the municipal world; we have not just seen clearly the proposal that they fan. The draft law does not include environmental issues such as the risks I have already said, climate change derivatives, or adaptation measures to its effects; recovery of natural sedimentary dynamics; conservation measures of natural platters and recovery of the environmental quality of platters; restrictions on access to platters according to their load capacity, or measures to halt biodiversity loss to preserve protected species. All of this, we intend to eliminate local autonomy – which I said – in urban planning, and we look at it with concern. Tanmateix, let's start this process. We are, in this case yes, active in this process, in the comparisons, in the reviews, in order to actually hold the bill that deserves the coast. I also end up giving thanks, in a collective but also personal way, for the learning of the ecological movement, because without the ecological movement, without its ability to influence, without its ability to act and condition the pujolist policies, directly, that have ended in this country to trinx the territory, today this coast cemented from which I speak neither would exist, there would be the watermelons of the Empordà nor so many other reserves of the coast that the mercantile policies that you defend have trinxed to our territories. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.221.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Santi Rodríguez. [[Widow's remorse.]] Congressman, counselor, we're waiting for the conversation to end so I can continue the debate. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Hope's, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.222.0	Yes, yes, I hope, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.223.0	Now, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.224.0	As you like the listener, I also like the listener. Thank you; thank you, President. The interventions that have been made so far suggest some ideas to express, but I will take advantage of it to include it in the short intervention that we will make to defend the non-submission of speech to the totality and, therefore, the possibility to process this bill through Parliament. Undoubtedly, the coast is a particular space in which interest and which certainly can try to balance. They are interested in use and enjoyment, but also in preserving natural values, biological values, landscaping. There are competing interests, say the same bill: the three administrations– State, General and Local Administrations–, in different areas, have more/less competitions. There are competition aspects: urban skills, environmental skills. And above all, there are initiations; public initiations, but there are also private initiations. And we have understood this precisely as the tool that must make possible the coexistence of all these interests, of all these elements. And I think that precisely one of the virtues, very possibly, that this law has had is that groups with visions that are certainly so different – some more balanced, others less balanced – in relation to how the coast is to be and how the protection of the coast is to be, we have not presented papers to the totality, and therefore we will have the opportunity to debate it – and, therefore, to do so in a much broader way – this bill. The law establishes figures... it's certain that no assumptions are made about what the coast should be like. Ordering and managing figures are regulated; surely if you have entered other aspects, you have been more complex than there have been totality items by some or other groups. As such, it establishes these figures of the order and management of the coast, two elements, two figures: the plan of the order of the coast, in charge of the same Generality, the same Administration of the Generality; plans of use of the coast and of the landings, so that the assemblies affected or benefited the ones that have the possibility to last these figures of order and management, especially in the case of the assemblies. Also set up participation tools, the board of directors, both the Board of Order and the use plans. And set up an executive commission from the administrative point of view, which is the commission of order. I'd say, I'd say, two discrepancies... I'd say, a fence and a discrepancy. They will – they will already understand that we have certain concerns about this government – that it is with regard to the role that, as well as the competent administration, has to or can also play the State in relation to the order of the coast. There is no practical discussion of the draft law, but what is certain is that the State also has competence and, therefore, some paper must have, precisely to guarantee this integral view, precisely to guarantee this integrated management, which is the one that pursues the draft law. And then there's a discrepancy, there's a discrepancy that I imagine is that you might think it's the dog, and it's basically a discrepancy for three reasons– three. A first, conceptual, counselor. Conceptual in the sense of, listen'm, we are in a moment..., as at least we are repeatedly denouncing that the Generalitat de Catalunya is the one that has the most appropriate taxes, that puts more taxes on you, that puts more taxes on you... You bring us a law with a canon, when we talk about the taxi and the VTCs tell us: "Well, then we will put a tax, too, such... It is to say, man, listen'm, we try to find other mechanisms for financing public policies that do not follow them to carry everything on the citizens, and more on the Catalan citizens, that already suffer enough. First element. Second element. The canon is 3_per_cent. Man, they couldn't have sorted...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.225.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.226.0	...another percentage? - If you let me, they're deu_seconds. The 3_per_cent. Man, couldn't we have sorted another percentage to disguise it? With the least to disguise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.227.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.228.0	But the hardest, about the benefits. And that, counselor, we understand that it's double taxation and, therefore, we understand that this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.229.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.230.0	...it's not possible, to apply a chain of this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.231.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Congressman Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.232.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, advisors, vice president, advisors..., Mr Agustí Serra and other members of the department who are accompanying us today, thank you, and thank you for the work done and in any case please us at first – and the counselor pointed out in his speech – of the fact that, in a draft law on such an important element as territorial scope rules in which there is always a great rift at the territorial level, there has been no mention of totality. It seems to us to be an important starting point and we believe that it is a good symptom that, in any case, the different parliamentary groups will enter, let's say, in the context of the text to present some ideas, but that the conception of the text is initially accepted. And, therefore, from this point of view seems important to us. It seems important to us because, as you pointed out to the beginning of your intervention, these eight hundred miles of coastline that we have in the country, with a high occupation, with a point, let's say, from a significant part of the country, this 43 percent of the population that lives in these seventy coastal municipalities, and that, moreover, generates, this tourism, an impact of the GDP of an 11 percent... And, therefore, we believe that we are talking about a sequence of issues that are not just a few, but that they require and, therefore, configure and coincide in the territorial sphere. Therefore, it seems to us that it is important to take account of these data at the moment, let us say, to talk and to approach..., because it gives us clearly what is the importance of the coast to our country, for its conception, for its impact on the economic environment, also for its impact on the environment. And it's an environment where in the last few years we've been painting a pressure. We believe that the area of regulation of activities in the maritime area must be subject to regulation and must be object to attempt to reach a point of control that has emerged in some areas. In any case, we understand that this bill is not alone, and then we'll talk about integrated management, but we think we need to talk about a much broader area. It is obvious that from our point of view this law affects the initial five-hundred-metres of the coast, but that there are other drafts of the law, and Mr. Terrades pointed out one, and that it seems important to us and that we believe that the department already has it in place to bring back to this parliamentary chamber, such as the House of Ports, which also obviously has a clear incidence in everything it does to the regulation of the coast, and that therefore we believe that we have to enter. In the later term of office, we were about to approve it, and we already had the work done in committee, we simply lacked this approval from the plenary, and so we had also reached a broad consensus. So it seems to us that this is also one of the bills to take into account. Other areas that appear to us to also need to be taken into account and that seem to us to be a pota respect also to this Coastal Ordering Law is the area of the Territorial Law and above all the action being taken by the department with the management plans of unsustainable soils, which Mr. Ferro here pointed out the need for this law to be passed on to this area. We believe that no, we believe that it is not within the scope of the Coast Planning Act that we have to address the problem of over-urbanisation, but rather within the scope of the executive board, that especially now that we have started working on the Costa Brava we believe that it is a way and that it is in this area where we need to work. Therefore, we believe that these three draft laws and this area of the director are the tools that we need to equip ourselves with to give out and to give coverage to this element; one element that concerns us, of course: it is obvious that the change in tourism model has generated an urban pressure on the coast, on the municipalities of the coast, not only on the maritime land area, that it is obvious that at the time there is an urban pressure they end up referring to the area around the coast and that we believe it is to be done. Therefore, from this point of view, we believe that we are doing well, and that, therefore, we understand that this is the function and the will of the Government, with the maximum that you say: "Think globally and act locally. This is one of those tools that try to mitigate the effects of climate change in the area of our territory, and therefore it seems to us that it is important. We share the goals that are set in the same bill, which is to plan activities rationally, preserve coastal areas and ensure coexistence between public and private initiatives. Whatever we say before, the country works or a part of the country works in this area, and therefore, let's say, we must make it possible, compatible. And above all these new principles that are embedded in our society of environmental respect we believe are important. We go into the field, and it's also pointed to the bill..., we have to start or we have to squeeze, if I may express it, at the most the skills we have in this field. We believe that there has been a huge effort, from the legal point of view, that gives us a facility and allows us to tighten funds and stretch those skills to the maximum extent we can. Someone told us that we have to refer to the State; the State, in any case, has its skills and will regulate its areas, but we have to work there, work there hard. On the subject of the system of the integrated model which they pose, it seems to me that it is intelligent, in the line as pointed out, as the adviser pointed out in his own intervention, following the recommendations of the European Parliament, and that, therefore, from this point of view, it is intended to have this vision, to make this integrated management of all the competing administrations. It is not an easy element, and therefore, let's say, from this point of view, we believe that it should be done. Some of them are concerned, and I refer to Mrs. Bravo..., on the subject of the State. Miri, an integrated management, yes; I also told him his own, huh? We also want her to be our own. And, therefore, the whole state will work together until we get close, but in any case what we want is to be able to manage the totality, let's say, of our ports and our coastline. Positive elements that we see and, in any case, surely, that must be discussed in the parliamentary debate... but that we do like and believe that it is important that the reality of the assemblies is taken into account, that it is left to account; the assemblies must be a more part of the regulation, let us say, of everything that affects the coast; they are the main ones affected by the management of the activities that are taking place in their territories, and therefore, from this point of view, the fact that the number of competences of them seems important. And, therefore, from this point of view, which also has more mechanisms at the time of setting up cases, seems important to us. We've just valued who they should be. We believe that at the time of determining it in the bill we can point it out, but it is also true that after that, and in any case also, we believe that the theme of the ordering plan and the usage plan is the area where we can define it taking into account the heterogeneity of the different situations. It is obvious that you cannot manage in the same way a platja of the Costa Brava or of the Ebra that a platja, as you pointed out, in the most urban area. Therefore, from this point of view, we must take into account these characteristics of each of the territories. On the subject of the canon of concessions. Here, we believe..., and in any case, let's talk to each other, avoid..., surely we have to work to avoid double taxation. What we do understand, since the purpose of these resources is to allocate them to the territorial sphere, that the assemblies can participate in the management of these resources and that, therefore, we seek the mechanism that allows the investments that are to be made in these municipalities to be participated also at the same time for the assemblies. To those who say that tax masses, I would say that no one surely likes to pay taxes, but in any case the question is where we refer and where these taxes are destined, and, in any case, what is basic, that there is a very clear transparency. Surely, without a tax deficit of €16,000_million that we're suffering in this country..., and someone will tell us that it's the song of anger, but it's the reality – it's the reality that reality is coughing up, Bravo, that's coughing up, reality – and, therefore, from this point of view, we could get rid of these issues. For what it seems to us to be that on the subject of the plan of uses and coasts of the beaches, the fact that the competence is municipal in this area allows us to pull forward and allows us to force this situation that the assemblies feel involved in the regulation of their spheres, and therefore from this point of view, we insist that we believe that in the whole field we can continue to work and speak with the assemblies. For what it does to some of the other elements that are also embedded in this bill that seem important to us, it is the themes of the accessibility criteria; taking into account the plural reality of our society and of people with disabilities and who can have the ability to access the plagiarism of our country in good conditions, it seems important that we also regulate this situation. And, for what it does on the issue of participation mechanisms, we believe that the theme of the Board of Governors of the Board of Governors and the Boards of Governors facilitate that element, those mandates that we also have as a government to try that all entities and different people can continue to participate in the different instruments of participation and, therefore, affect the governance of all these elements. And by the end of the day, two questions. Mr. Rodriguez, listen, this is 3_per_cent... I don't know, I don't think you're the most appropriate person to talk about this, exactly, huh? And, therefore, it is better than I had to make certain comments, because ultimately what it is about is to generate taxes that serve or can serve for the regulation of resources to improve the coast. And, to finish, Mrs Bravo, the law of transitoryity which it does, what it predicts is that you will work the costs – therefore, it is not concerned – become part of the government of the republic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.233.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.234.0	...without anyone leaving.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.235.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.236.0	So, she'll always be welcome, you know. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.237.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of the deputy Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.238.0	Well, good late, deputies, deputies, councillor Calvet, secretaries general Agustí Serra, my company also of the area of right administered Josep Maria Aguirre, who knows well this problem of the protection of the Catalan coast. This late, before I begin, allow me a record for Councilman Rull, unfairly undertaken. Before yesterday he made a stack from the prison of Soto del Real where reference is made to the cold, he says: "The cold is one of our worst enemies. In Soto del Real, near the Sierra de Guadarrama, there is only heating two hours a day. Cells are authentic neveres. Many interns tell us that they have dinner and stay directly in bed. Unaudited. Tanmateix, they won't bind us. She's a real shame. And why am I quoting Councilman Rull today? So why do the times we've been able to visit Extremera or Lledoners bring their esteem to the country, the will to rule for everyone and do it well, their awareness for the territory, the impulse of sustainability policies and the need to face the climate change? That's why I thought it was very important today to quote him in this debate to the Coast Planning Law. This law, as some honourable Member also recalled, was paralyzed from the application of 155, and therefore today the beginning of its parliamentary process begins. We must say that, beyond the opportune and logical criticisms of the different parliamentary groups, there is no mention of totality; therefore, the opportunity of this law is positive. As some of my companies have also said, Article 149.3 of the Statute of Autonomy establishes this competence that the Generality exercises with this Law of Order of the Coast. And it is true that this law, therefore, is limited in the state sphere, in the sphere of public domain, and there has been a great deal of controversy also over the rulings of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the Generality's will is to face this law, which I believe is transformative and innovative, the will to order this coast. We also have priors, the urban management plans of the costar system. Deputy Terrades, when you made reference in this law to the municipalities' competitions, therefore, to the urban planning of the coastal system, approved at the time of the tripartite, there was some aspect that the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia declared to violate local autonomy. Therefore, we discuss who are the competitions and mark the limits. We also say that this law, like the Generality, through its department, therefore, needs its competitions, but we defend a Catalan republic, because we would like to have no competitive limits, for example, in the law of the soil or in competitions in the field of valuations, and, therefore, to be able to exercise these competitions to the maximum. And two references. The Mayor of Greuges, last year, June 2018, issued a report that he cited..., the increase in environmental and urban conflicts in Catalonia, and affirmed the presence of ecological vehicular movements that pose on the table the need for supra-municipal order, such as the Law of Ordination of the Territory, which is done in coherence with citizens' demands, while requiring real and effective participation in the processes of debate on territorial order, and which did not carry out this capacity and local autonomy. I believe that these three characteristics that were on the report of the Greuges Synod have been very well exposed to them by Councillor Calvet and form part of the pillars of this exhibition of motius and its articulation. Therefore, participation, transparency and competitions and concertation with the municipalities. And also, as I say, that you have said in the last statements, makes it difficult in case there are any compensations, huh? Everyone here now is a great defender of the gatherings, but when the Generalita acts in its day-to-day so there is a series of compensations that after the first ones ask that the Generalita exercises competitions, if there are compensations, they are the first ones to criticize that the assembly has to pay these compensations. Therefore, coherence in the policies that are defended. I also wanted to say that last year, June 2018, there was a professor, Jorge Olcina, who is the president of the Spanish Association of Geographers, who said that neither the Law of Costs nor the Law of Spanish Mountains introduced any international recommendations to counter climate change. I think that today this law does include these parameters, and it can differentiate the bill that, with all the criticisms and the debate that can be made of the Territory's Ordering Law, I include them differently from the Spanish Cost Law or the Spanish Mountain Law. On the other hand, we have the protection of the coast, that the protection of the coast, therefore, has to be included in the sustainable urban development, the impact of the 2001 Directive of plans and programmes, which defends the interplay between urbanism and the environment. The deputy Lucas Ferro..., when you were talking about the environmental impact, therefore, at the length of the urban process, there is a cure, with many reports, of the environmental impact, and, if this impact is produced, it has to be corrected, and, if it is not corrected, there are courts of justice that validate or dismiss it. So, I think this one has a lot of elements. On the other hand, this law is a reptile that is not Catalan, as is the problem of urban pressure, of the impact of tourism. I, these days, preparing the presentation, therefore, make reference to two very different countries; for example, the United States, the west coast of the United States, the State of California, where the urban environmental pressure and the regulations approved..., so look at the regulations and recently there has been no impact; or, for example, Italy, with a system of urban competition distribution similar to ours, so the Italian regions with urban skills have also aspired to the integrated management of urbanism, of the protection of the coast and also recently have approved standards. Therefore, we find ourselves with a problem, yes, català, because of the same configuration and morphology of our coast, but it is a problem, therefore, that there is a multitude of countries and that all face in the best way possible. With the law, that's why, far beyond establishing these coastal ordering criteria, I think the council is approaching day by day, which is very different. When Councillor Calvet on November 2018 came to the parliamentary committee and told us that in short terms, in the first quarter of 2019, we would approve an urban moratorium on the Costa Brava..., well, say that the 17th generation had already approved. This week's end, in this day-to-day management, with these interests of conservation, of ordering, of restoring, of repairing – let's say the adjective we say, that I think this is minimizing and making little of the law's absorptive – so there was also a second moratorium. Therefore, I believe that the government is presenting day by day with the management of the competitions, the exercise of the competitions..., with presenting a draft law that I believe is important. And you won't say it, but some private MPs say that what the Generalita did with the moratorium is brave. Therefore, we do not excuse ourselves, sometimes..., or we always ask the Generality to exercise its powers and then we do not take into account the powers of the municipalities, and we do not do it the other way around, we ask that the assemblies maintain their municipal autonomy over the competence of the Generality of Catalonia. Therefore, this day and day, I believe that the last few months the Generalitat is facing this urban pressure. On the other hand, this coastal law – the councilman I think has explained it very well and the deputy Sanglas, also – has principles that – obviously, then, in writing, we can discuss in the ponies and we can listen experts –..., the preservation of coastal areas for the benefit of present and future generations; ensure the use of sustainable resources and natural resources; the preservation of coastal ecosystems and their landscapes; prevent natural hazards and climate change, and the planning of the Catalan coast. Here it seemed to me, in some intervention, the confusion in which is the processing of a draft law of order of the coast, with which is the realization of the measures – the deputy Lucas Ferro, seems to me to be – of protection, that they are not to be to the law, but they are to be in the plan. So, I'm going to kill him, too. On the other hand, therefore, this law introduces these areas, these planning instruments for the planning and management of the coast. They also refer to biologic wealth, guarantee participation, formulation of an integrated management of soil protection, participation of local authorities. With regard to the canon, surely, there are different positions, but it seems to me that there is or is proposed a channel of exploitation of concessions activities on the public domain, and that this can have no finalist character, precisely, when we talked about repairing to improve, conserve, recover and restore the same public domain. So it seems absolutely positive to me. As well as the Law distributed the range of competitions between joints and the Generality, which is also a theme many times conflict. So, we think it's a good thing that this one started walking, that there's no mention of it at all. And, look, there's a..., Rio de Janeiro's statement I know it's old, from 1992, but let's start working for future generations, because I think this law is a good opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.239.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate is over, and as no papers have been presented to the whole, this legislative initiative can continue its processing. [[Proposal for a law to draw up a text recast of legal provisions in the matter of taxes assigned to the State (debate of totality)]] [[202-00031/12]] Therefore, we proceed directly to the next item on the agenda, which is the sixth item, the totality debate on the Drafting Law Proposal for a text recast of legal provisions in the matter of taxes given to the State. Before starting the debate, I would like to point out that, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, the debate on the totality of this legislative initiative, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, will be co-substantiated with the agenda item set, that is to say, the one referring to the proposed law for which the legislative delegation is authorised to recast the existing legal regulation in the matter of assigned taxes; presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republic. The speaking times, one round of the two debates, will be two minutes per parliamentary group, and five for the subgroup. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the first paragraph of the paragraph of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group is intended to present its legislative initiative. I, therefore, have the word, on behalf of this parliamentary group, Mr José Maria Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.240.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Vice-President, Councillors, Members, Members, very good afternoon to everyone. Today, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans we present a proposal for a law aimed at the elaboration of a consolidated text that contains, in a single rule, all the legal provisions that have an impact on the taxes assigned to our autonomous community. The taxes given are those established and regulated by the State, but on which our autonomous community has a normative capacity, that is, within its competences. In the rest of the European regions it would not be necessary to stress respect for competition, but unfortunately and on the basis of experience, in Catalonia it is an element to be constantly remembered. Any law or rule emanating from this Parliament must respect the competence of our autonomous community. Having said that, why are we putting forward this bill? Over the years, Catalonia has consistently and continuously exercised its legislative power in tax matters. It has done so within the framework established by our Constitution and the law regulating the system of financing the autonomous communities in common system. This legislative activity has led to the adoption of a multitude of rules regulating partial aspects of the different taxes assigned. We talk about taxes like the IRPF, in what we have legislative power, or about the so-called autonomous section. And here I want to denounce that because of the policies they have implemented on this issue, the working middle class suffers from suffocating fiscal pressure, the highest in Spain. We also have regulatory power over the deductions of the IRPF, the capital tax, or the tax on the transfer of assets and documented legal acts, for putting only three examples of taxes. All this legislation has been developed, many times, in an inconsistent, isolated and form, in most cases, totally uncoordinated. A clear example is the property transfer tax and documented legal acts, the famous ITPYAJD, with twenty approved regulatory provisions, nine of which have a law rank, and we find that most of these rules do not include any reference to the name of the tax in the title of the law, so its title does not specify that that law affects and conditions the tax in question. To tell them that in order to find the general type applicable to the AJD we have to go and look for a law whose title is the Law on administrative, fiscal and adaptation measures to the euro; title that is a real tailor box, that does not help to identify the taxes that are affected by that norm; norm that, on the other hand, and like all, will be obligatory for citizens, for self-employed people and for businesses. The reality of the Catalan fiscal legislation is that we are currently suffering from a huge legislative dispersion which has become a genuine gallimacy and which affects one of the main principles which must be complied with by law: it affects the necessary guarantee of the principle of legal certainty, and in this case it does so within a sensitive area such as taxation, which has direct economic consequences for citizens, our self-employed and our businesses. We are talking about the insecurity faced by citizens when it comes to settling their taxes properly in the face of the possibility of making mistakes and having to take on checks and even having to deal with tax agency sanctions that are not of any importance. And all this not as a result of a defrauding will but as a result of a misinterpretation of the norm in the face of this great legislative dispersion. Therefore, it is necessary to remedy this situation because, in the end, this gallimacy about which he spoke to them is to make it difficult for our citizens and tax professionals to know the rules in their full dimension and to run the risk of not applying them correctly. One of the first advantages of a consolidated text such as the one we are proposing today is precisely to provide citizens, self-employed people, businesses and tax professionals with consultation and access to all tax legislation, as they will see it gathered in a single consultation text. On the other hand, any administrative simplification we push will generate benefits for citizens. In the present case, this simplification entails a reduction in the costs of management, advice and compliance borne by citizens and businesses. It is clear that every tax figure entails compliance costs, time must be spent, among other things, on collecting the regulations, collecting the necessary data, completing the forms and presenting them correctly. And we must bear in mind that 95_per_cent of our business fabric, which is who will have to do it or order it from third parties, are small and medium-sized enterprises. And that, therefore, these costs are inevitably borne by citizens, companies that are obliged to allocate human, technical and material resources to obtain sufficient information to enable them to comply with and settle their taxes without error. And the costs will be higher the higher the degree of dispersion of the texts, the higher the more laws have to be consulted and analyzed by the taxpayer or his advisors. And nobody escapes that these costs are of vital importance to companies as they affect their productivity, being forced to allocate part of the resources to administrative tasks, either by means of their own production or by subcontracting them to third parties. Resources that could be used for actions that improve productivity and competitiveness. On the other side of the coin, we are also faced with the costs incurred by the tax agency itself to fulfil its responsibilities for the management and verification of the liquidations presented in the face of the mistakes made by the taxpayers, the result of this normative dispersion. In short, as far as taxes are concerned, the clearer the rule is and the lesser the legislative dispersion will be the resources that citizens, self-employed persons, businesses and, of course, the administration itself will have to allocate to this tax. Therefore, one of the improvements to this proposal for a law is to reduce the costs incurred, since, in the end, we are talking about improving the efficiency and efficiency of our tax system. And if we talk about the consolidated text itself, one of the characteristics that must have is to be a flexible text. It must be permanently open to the legislative changes that are taking place. This is one of the main uses of the text, its constant update so that it never loses its validity. In order to achieve this, a good codification structure of tax legislation should be provided to facilitate the permanent updating of the text. Therefore, one of the requirements of the text, for it to be useful, is that it is always updated. To say that, obviously, this is not an exclusive problem of our autonomous community, but, unlike our own, the majority of autonomous communities take us ahead and have adopted consolidated texts such as the one proposed today by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. These texts contain all the regulations adopted by their autonomous parliaments. This is the case of the Community of Madrid, which has had it since 2010; of Aragon; of Andalusia; of the Balearic Islands; of Asturias or Galicia. Catalonia, until now, was in line in this matter – and let me also tell you – this is an example, this is just an example of going in line. Unfortunately, our autonomous community suffers from the endless paralysis of the process and this has effects on society and the economy. Catalonia is already starting to go in the tail car of many indicators, a situation that is very worrying. And what is most serious is a situation that is already beginning to be irreversible. I do not know if you are aware that you have not presented a single budget in time in the last nine years, including this one. What I'm telling you is that you recapacitate and stop living in your bubble to get down to Earth and put yourself on the skin and at the service of the citizens. If so, do what all citizens do, because for many years they have not focused on making a useful policy, the policy that develops our competences, the policy that cares about citizenship, the policy that benefits Catalans. They do not really realize, they do not see that their process does not allow them time to present useful proposals such as those we are debating today, simple proposals, obviously like this, which does not perform miracles but which facilitate the lives of Catalans. Finally, I would like to announce to you that today we are presenting a bill that complements the one we are debating at this time so that a consolidated text containing the rules on own taxes can also be drawn up. We have to remember that Catalonia has the dubious honour of being the autonomous community with more taxes of its own. We have fifteen own tributes, the autonomous community that follows us would be Andalusia with eight own tributes. And the preparation of that consolidated text would also help to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of such taxation. Finally, I would like to urge you, I would like to urge the Government to speed up the process of this law, always being rigorous in the preparation of the consolidated text, so that before the end of the year we can already have it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.241.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Proposal for a law authorizing the legislative delegation to recast the existing legal rules in the field of taxes transferred (debate of totality)]] [[202-00032/12]] On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Lluís Salvadó spoke in support of the legislative initiative presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.242.0	Thank you, President. Very late, deputies and deputies. Well, I'll try to explain things very similar to what Congressman Cano explained. That's right, on the other hand, in which you've been critical of the government, I'll take it away. But it is true that in the first part I will coincide quite with his exposure and his analysis. As has already been explained in good measure, this proposal by the Law, these two proposals by the Law derive from a motion for a resolution submitted by the Cano to the Economic and Historical Commission last October; a resolution in which a compromise was concluded between the two groups that we support the Government and the Ciutadans Group, and concluded..., or that motion for a resolution ended in concrete terms that a delegation to the Government of Catalonia should be concluded through a legislative delegation in which the Government is mandated to complete a text that was recast around all that was the legal regulation in force in the matter of transferred taxes. And today, in the end, what we are proposing in this plenary is the approval of two proposals for law which are very similar: one from the Republic Group and the other from the Citizens Group. Two propositions that as they have the same origin also in good measure have a very similar development. As has already been said, they intend to make life easier for citizens, they intend to make life easier for taxpayers, above all to improve legal certainty, regulatory coherence and they intend to make laws governing our taxes clearer and simpler. At the length of the years, as it has also been exposed, in this Parliament we have been modifying, adapting, improving many of these laws that regulate the taxes given. Many of these changes have usually been carried out through accompanying laws, through the names of tax measures laws, which, as was also stated, still make it more difficult to trace and identify the changes that apply to each of these tax figures. The changes that have been applied are necessary; the society changes, and changes in the measure that new social needs appear, in the measure that new economic needs appear. And this Parliament, or the same government, considers that it is necessary to give an answer to these new needs. They are also logical changes in the measure that changes from each legislature, from each cycle, nine electoral cycles, change the majority, change the majority in this Parliament; and, therefore, also, in good measure changes the orientation of the government's fiscal policy. It is certainly inevitable, essential, that not only are there changes in Catalonia, but that, as has been said, they occur in any field, an administration which has jurisdiction in tax matters; but, in the end, it is true that they have generated and continue to generate a wide range of regulatory dispersion. And while the legislation, from all this development, these various drawings of years that have passed, the combination of tax legislation has acquired an extraordinary complexity that makes it difficult not only for citizens to know and understand, but also for legal operators, on the part of tax advisors and managers. Until today, the Catalan tax agency has brought to an end a series of guides that attempt to synthesize and bring to an end a collection of all these normative changes, incorporating also the resolutions that from the various judicial and economic stages of administration have been developing, and therefore, through the guides, it tries to make clear the lack of a text recast, but that it is obvious that having a recast text makes it possible to improve, in a very clear way, the understanding of this whole system and this legal mark. What we do here today is not very common – it is not very common – for various reasons. First of all, because it is an initiative of an opposition group, to which we join, and we deal and arrive at agreements and work together and work together together – it is an exception, unfortunately, that certainly should not be so much – but also, secondly, it is a non-usual procedure, not usually, given that we carry out a power under Article 63 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and which allows this Parliament to delegate to the Government of the Government of Catalonia the power to dictate standards with the rank of law. Therefore, today we approve of a delegation expressed to the Government of the Generality, made through a law, of this proposal of law that we present today from the table, and that at the same time we determine the concrete scope and determine a period of new months for which the Government of the Generality is empowered to elaborate this text. At the end of these new months, or from the moment when the corresponding legislative decree is published by the Government of the Generalitat, this term shall lapse, or shall also lapse if the Government finds itself in office. Therefore, what we are planning today is to authorize, as they have already done, which has also been commented upon, various autonomous communities, to empower the Government because in these new months, from the entry into force of this law that we intend to approve today, the Government for new months has to bring to an end this rejection of all the regulations governing the taxes transferred. It is a matter of collecting, systematizing properly all the legislation of legal rank that, as well as reference, would affect, in concrete terms, the tax on the income of physical persons, the tax on property transfers and documented legal acts, the tax on inheritance and donations and all the package of different taxes that apply on the game. Therefore, it is not a matter of entering into the background of these tax figures, but of simply making a reordering. Having this unique text must lead to a greater certainty, to greater legal certainty; but also, at the same time, through this task, it is necessary to continue to develop this task of harmonization of all that is the legal mark in force in fiscal matters; a task which has begun the previous legislature, which has developed through this codification, which has also been referred to, of a flexible system which allows for a very constant update through a tax code similar to that which at the time has been developed, such as the Catalan Civil Code or other tax codes which are currently in force in other European countries. Therefore, we would be incorporating a second part, a second law of this tax code, a few books that would allow us to work and continue in this double-ordering, double-ordering task: for one side, specific to the taxes given and, for another, to all that is the legislative framework that today is of application to our tax system. With these two harmonising initiatives they can make substantial progress in legal certainty, in the simplicity of standards and in the strict systematization of the combination of the main laws that integrate the tax law in Catalonia, and in the case that applies specifically to them in the field of tax transfers. We have a mandate to have a recast text, and we have a look at the best legislative techniques that today apply to Europe through this code system, through this system of books, which must allow us greater flexibility to incorporate the changes that every day, or every year, or every month this Parliament will introduce, and so it must be, because the country is changing, the need for change, and the laws and taxes will adapt to it. And I end up aggravating the willingness to work together with Congressman Cano. It seems to me that it is a collaboration that will surely allow a better of a complex tax system that is always difficult to interpret but that, from this text, it will surely have a point of improvement and order and to facilitate life not only to the citizen, the taxpayer, but also to the whole group of tax advisors and managers of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.243.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] It is the return now, as no papers have been presented to the totality, of the positioning of the rest of parliamentary groups. I, in the first place, have the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group Units per Avançar, the deputy Mrs.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.244.0	Thank you, President. I'll be very brief, because as much Mr. Cano as Mr. Salvado have explained very well the proposal, the project, right? The proposition of the law that is presented here today. It's for a text rebuttal of all taxes surrendered. It is true that one of the most important and sometimes forgotten tasks of this Parliament is to legislate. Besides, it's the first job we have, right? , the legislative function. And, therefore, within this function, therefore, the quality of standards, rigour, should probably be the principles that guide us at the time of our task. And it's true that it recasts texts of the same rank, that more than anything else deal with very similar issues and that surely they should or should facilitate the legal security not only of the citizens, but also of all those who use it, in these cases they can be legal servants, lawyers, and all the time that ends up applying or changing the laws, is therefore important that we put them or facilitate this work of..., generating, above all, legal security. Sometimes it seems like it's over, too. Therefore, we are obviously in favour of this process. The President of Parliament has already said that there are no totalities. And what we would ask, as I suggest, is that very often, as I said, what is our main task in this Parliament. And I would also remind the Government that, sometimes, when they present some law or draft law to deal with in this Parliament, so remember that we are and that we have to work in a legal framework, that it is what we have, that the order of legal facts is what it is and is not another. And I'm saying this because we've now started a piece of law on contracts to people's servants, and one of the things we've added to it is that we haven't been able to, once presented, adapt it to the state law that had been approved months before, have we? Okay. This is also a legal task and a legislative task that needs to be done rigorously. And, therefore, I think it is important that we make recast texts to generate legal certainty for those who apply it or feel criticized for it, but we also need to be able to be rigorous at the time of legislation. And we need to hear and we need to know that we are in a _framework and that we need to respect ourselves. And, therefore, I think it is important that we do this today, but that also when we present projects or proposals for law, we adjust them to the law, which is certainly one of the most important obligations we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.245.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is now the return of Deputy David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.246.0	Well, good afternoon. As I said, we are now in front of a project, of a proposal for a single article law that has the will to recast into a single text the legislation with the status of the tax law given to the State; that is, of the taxes that the Generality has the capacity to regulate. Let's get him, Mr. Cano, that's for sure, right? In this bill of law, it'll be the most likely we'll be taxed by you, won't it? Because I don't think we agree on other things. And I hope that this proposal of the law will certainly serve because groups like yours, and perhaps also the Republican Left, so there is only..., a rebuttal of this tax legislation on taxes given by the State, so it is not certain that Catalonia is the autonomous community that pays more taxes, or, in this case, that can compare with other autonomous communities in a much simpler way and can see that there are other autonomous communities that pay, for example, a higher type of heritage, that pay, for example, a higher type of income for example in this case with income tax, or, even so, also on estates. And that's what you guys are specialists in, too, isn't it? For example, in IRPF there are many autonomous communities that the maximum type of 25.5 pay a lot under the EUR 175,000 that they pay to Catalonia, or, for example, in heritage, as I said, there are other autonomous communities that have a higher type, right? I hope it didn't work out for something that you said, or it seemed to me to say, that it's to facilitate the work of tax advisors. Because many times these tax advisors do what they do is help make tax elusion, which is legal, but I wouldn't say ethically, therefore, a good practice, and I don't even know if tax evasion sometimes, that we're already talking about something else here, because it's basically illegal. In any case, his model of taxation – I also take advantage of it to say 'there' – we already know what it is. That is why I told him that we would certainly not be much closer to what we would be in this article or in this single article proposal, among other things, because you have just approved, in Andalusia, the abolition of inheritance taxes for heresies of more than 1 million euros – I suppose he would not have told me that with an inheritance of more than 1 million euros we are talking, in this case, of popular classes or middle classes– ; 40 million euros that lead to papermaking, in this case, or in heresies, to the pockets of the renderers, and that go to the detriment of this case of the public services of the citizens and citizens of Andalusia, according to your government. Look, I'm at the end..., I'm also telling you with all the sincerity, you're the high-end party, you're the high-end party, you're the high-end party, and you're the high-end party, because in the end you have the liberals that I do. Because there's nothing more, so let me just say so, you talking so much about merit, there's no more gerontocratic than what you've done with the inheritance tax in Andalusia in this case, that it's to eliminate it for the heirlooms of more than €1 million, but fine. I'm done, because you don't have any more, this law proposal. I recommend an article written by Mr. Xavier Vidal-Folch this summer in El País, in the full month of August, which is said « Married, Reagan and Laffer's curve, eh? – you love them..., and we could add: « Married, Rivera..., badly, also, « Abascal and the Laffer curve –, which explains, in this case, no? Mr Reagan's experience, that between 1981 and 1986 reduced the maximum rate of income tax, seems to me to be, if I didn't go wrong, from 50 to 28 per cent, and, basically, what caused it is a public ruin, huh? ; caused a total fall in tax collection, in this case to the United States, by firing the deficit, which went to 4.8 of GDP, and by firing, in this case, also the public debt. This is his model, he already said, and, in any case, today we would agree, because we are talking about an absolutely technical thing, which is that we do not recast the texts, in this case, of taxation of taxes given by the State, but you, if you say so, have, in this case, passed to the history of Andalusia, to be the party of the renderers, the party of high returns and the party of the hierarchy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.247.0	Thank you, Congressman. The Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed has renounced its turn. Therefore, it is time for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The word has Mr. Santi Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.248.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, counselor... last week we presented a bunch of legislative initiatives here in Parliament, and one of them we presented... by the way, all to bring them down, to remove the inheritance tax, so hard does Mr. Cid know, that, excuse me, huh? But it sounds a little strange to me that you didn't accuse anyone of being the rich's party, when their party is the one of Galapagar's 600,000_euro jackets, right? And it seems to me that it's a little too much, doesn't it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] A million euros..., ah! , from €1 million, to about, well, okay. Listen to me... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In short...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.249.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.250.0	Last week... – it was rhetorical, intervention is rhetorical, huh? , but well – last week, as I said, we presented an initiative and did so in relation to various taxes: that of assets, that of estates, and also that of heritage transmissions and documented legal acts. So... and in that proposition of law that we presented, we also added a provision that gave, listen to me, and the government that rebutted, like at least, the text that refers to the asset tax, right? , transfer of assets and documented legal acts. I will therefore confine myself to saying what we have seen in relation to this law: 'Law No. 25/98 on administrative, fiscal and adaptation measures to the euro; Law No. 4/2000 on fiscal and administrative measures; Law No. 21/2001 on fiscal and administrative measures; Law No. 31/2002 on fiscal and administrative measures; Law No. 7/2004 on fiscal and administrative measures; Law No. 12/2004 on financial measures; Law No. 5/2007 on fiscal and financial measures; Law No. 17/2007 on fiscal and financial measures; Law No. 26/2009 on fiscal, financial and administrative measures; Decree No. 3/2010 on urgent measures to contain expenditure and fiscal matters; Law No. 5/2007 on the reduction of general government deficit; Law No. 5/2012 on fiscal and financial measures; Law No. 26/2009 on fiscal, financial and administrative measures and on the creation of social measures relating to expenditure and financial matters; Decree No. 3/2010 on urgent measures to reduce public deficit; Law No. We follow: « Decree Law 6/2018, relating to the type of tax applicable to public writings documenting the setting up of loans or loans with mortgage guarantee, and, if I may, from this day on, add: « Decree Law 1/2019, of 8 generation, of financial needs of the public sector in matters of public office and taxation with budgetary extension. Yes, yes; this same morning we approved, we validated a law decree, which included a new incorporation into documented legal acts. In other words, the tax on capital transfers and documented legal acts is divided – divided! – legislative provisions. I believe that there is no need for further arguments to justify that we obviously support the initiative that has been proposed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.251.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the return of Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.252.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen deputies, vice president, councillor, good afternoon to everyone. Well, we agree with the need for these proposals of law, given that at the length of the years Catalonia has exercised its legislative power in the matter of taxation, approving a large number of laws that partially regulate these taxes given, on a timely basis, and sometimes, effectively, how it has now become manifest, winged. Obviously, we're already supposed to agree with Republican Left. Our group, however, is very pleased to say to Mr Cano that, in this case, we are also in agreement with this proposal for law, and I say to him without a hint of irony, which, for some reason, has begun, even though he will see that in some conclusion, in the end, we do have a bit of a disagreement. In time, obviously, these partial regulations have led to a regulatory dispersion that makes it difficult to understand even for legal operators, professionals, businesses, and the same Administration charged with applying it, and it does not mean for citizens in general, for which tax standards are normally simply unreadable. This situation is in jeopardy of the need for legal certainty. In the case of inheritance and donation tax, its legislation was recast for Law 19/2010, but the rest of the taxes are regulated in a standard dispersal_mark. This situation, and with the will, indeed, of a better service to the city, in order to guarantee, as we say, legal certainty, so that all the standard corpus of taxes given is ordered, restored and systematized in a harmonious way, also thinking of its coherent and easy development later. As provided for in the proposal of Esquerra Law, which is not Ciutadans Law, the authorization for the referendum has also included the possibility of regularizing, clarifying and harmonising the content applying legal criteria of structure and systematization. It is a matter of collecting, in fact, all the legal regulations approved by Parliament, as regards IRPF, imposing property transfers and documented legal acts, imposing estates, donations and taxes on the game. We remember that the Generalitat took over the management of the taxes transferred from September 2017, the task that had been delegated to the registrars of the property and the assumption of these competences of the integrated management will amount to a savings of 17_million euros per year. Naturally, the application of the 155 involved a paralysing of its development, which fortunately the Government has already resumed. Why do we find ourselves: the taxes transferred represent a 99.36_percent of the total tax revenue of the General Administration. Therefore, the taxes that I have referred to represent only 0.64_per_cent, since the taxes given are 56.7_per_cent of the total Generality entrances. I, taking into account that 84_per_cent– IRPF, VAT and special taxes on specific customs– are managed for the State, and subject to beasts on the basis of the assumptions of the State General Presuppositions, which are not liquid until the end of two years. These figures show that there is no real financial autonomy. Therefore, they show that there is no real autonomy, and that, despite the speeches, we are not in an almost federal state, but in a practically central state, where the distribution of the financial resources is in the hands of the State, which is the paella for manec. We are talking about given taxes, but we cannot forget that who actually gives up taxes is who pays them, the citizens and the Catalan companies, and in its conjunction, all Catalonia, which gives up, not thanks, but by force, its tax recovery to the State, which is like giving up the effort of initiative and the work of its citizens. Who says to defend Catalonia and to worry about what the Catalans really are interested in, should worry, first of all, that the fiscal effort of the Catalans has its benefit and not contribute to perpetuating the economic drainage that involves a structural and chronic fiscal deficit, that leaves our economy's competitiveness and, ultimately, the well-being of the Catalans, that for all the members of this chamber should always be the first of its worries. The Economic and Hisenda Board of Directors, which took part in 155, calculated the fiscal deficit in Catalonia in the years 2013 and 2014, which stood at 8.4_percent of GDP, reaching 16.570_million euros. Interestingly, now, the State denies data to continue calculating these fiscal balances: viscose transparency! Where the fiscal deficit is seen more cruelly, in serious damage to the country's productive structure, is in the infrastructure deficit, which is no longer necessary but essential for the past fifteen years and up to twenty years. The glaring failure of the third additional provision, which only forced to invest in Catalonia the same that contributed to GDP, therefore, no privileges, is a democratic scandal and an economic spoli. Incompliment, this, of the third additional provision, benefied by a constitutional court converted into an authentic political court, which kept Catalonia in a permanent state of exception, violating the will and autonomy of this Parliament, suspending laws approved by some, even, for the totality of the chamber, and altering the electoral result and preventing elected deputies from exercising the mandate given to them by the ballot boxes. In my case, I am a member of Parliament for Tarragona, and to hide a little at home, to put as an example a concrete case, the port of Tarragona sees its competitiveness undermined, which affects all the economic fabric and the job creation of our communities, so as not to still have the connection to the Corridor of the Mediterranean. The structure of the Corridor of the Mediterranean is built of the port of Tarragona, financed exclusively for which it generates the same port of Tarragona, but, in change, there is no connection to the corridor, which is neither there nor is expected. The late minister of the branch said the corridor will be in operation by 2021, and that's a lie. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what's the last auction of the Mediterranean Corridor? They won't guess: Sagunt-Saragossa. Totally by the coast, since before we talked about the Cost Law. And the Tarragona, let's keep waiting. Today we are talking about taxes, which are a key element for redistribution of wealth, for making a society fairer and with equal opportunities. And this in Catalonia is private to us. The citizens of this country cannot freely and democratically configure the model of society they want. The fiscal deficit does not deprive us of money but of the possibility of setting up our future. For this reason, and not another, it is why our plan to associate an independent republic always passes by to put the decision of its future in the hands of the Catalans. It is also for this reason, and not another, that President Puigdemont, Vice-President Junqueras, the President of this Parliament, Carme Forcadell, and the rest of the Government, are to be judged in prison and exile. With the latest data available, during the time I have been speaking, the citizens of Catalonia have lost 315,258 euros at 75 cents. And this is the responsibility of all the Members of this House, who consent to it, or, what is worse, who endorse it, and it is precisely those who constantly denounce that the highest fiscal pressure to all the autonomous communities is here in Catalonia, it is precisely those who perpetuate this permanent state of exile to the resources of the Catalans. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, yes: Spanish steals from us. He wanted to rob us of the past, rob us of the present and therefore rob us of the future, but we will continue with the example and dignity of political prisoners and exiles, fighting – peacefully, always – for this future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.253.0	At the same time, as we have said before, there have been no total submissions to these legislative initiatives, both of which continue to be processed. [[Question to the Government about the situation of the great people]] [[300-00075/12]] Let's move now, then, to the next point of the order of the day. Let us begin with the questions, and in this case, the first question to the Government is about the situation of the great people, the question presented to the Member, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Raúl Moreno. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.254.0	Thank you, President. Gentlemen, honourable Members, Councillor El Homrani, greet also the people who accompany us from the guest gallery. For a few days now, some media in Catalonia, Mr. Counsellor, have echoed some data that I consider to be worrying and that I would like to share with you. Every day six Catalans die waiting for a place of residence, eleven_ thousand people in the last five years, 75_per_cent of whom had already recognized a right to a place of residence. About fifty_and_three_thousand people are pending valuation. Eighteen thousand and five thousand Catalans are waiting for a residential square. There are no places available in public residences. Waiting lists of up to four years to access one of them. There are about five thousand places of free private residences and another five thousand in empty day centers. The vast majority of citizens have to pay between one thousand and two thousand and four hundred euros for a place of residence, if they find it. One_of_each_three citizens of the whole of Spain who is on the waiting list by dependency is Catalan. We are the autonomous community with the highest dependency waiting list in Spain and the geriatrics sector cries out for an improvement of their working conditions and wages. The picture, as we have been warning you for years, Mr. Counsellor, is desolating. And, of course, what is the answer that we know from your government and your predecessors also from the Republican Left? You continue with the policy of not one euro for the construction of new public residences. Twenty-five_ thousand fewer benefits for non-professional caregivers compared to 2010– twenty-five_ thousand. You continue to reduce the benefits linked by residence. They keep the places of residence and day centers empty despite having a huge waiting list. Since 2010, the Social Services Portfolio has been frozen. They have not reviewed the current inspection mechanisms in residences. In short, they have put the entire population in despair because of the lack of political initiative in this area. They have also tabled, to finish fixing it, an amendment to the whole of the general budgets of the State despite being, and you know it, indispensable for this and other problems that Catalonia has. Counselor, in the face of this situation, what are you going to do? I mean, what's the plan? What can we say to the entire citizenry that the Government is going to do to reduce this data, to fix this situation? Today, just hours before this inquiry, you made public that the Generalitat will invest 750,000 euros in a shock plan to reduce the lists of assessment of disability and dependence, which will essentially increase the staffing of the people who value them and try to go faster in the assessments. All right, but if it does numbers, we talk about just over thirty professionals, with these seven hundred_five thousand_euros. But, of course, we need something more: about the places that there are going to be, related benefits... Can you tell us how many places you are going to start this year 2019? Even if it is with the budgets that you have already worked and that I suppose you will bring us some day in this Parliament to see if we can approve them, how many linked benefits will there be more? We'd like to know that from Benestar's advisor. In addition, we consider that it would be relatively simple, I will make you some proposals, lower the waiting list of these five_ thousand people if you recover the benefits linked to residence. Quickly: Where do we come from? We come from a fiscal pact of Convergence and the People's Party in 2010 where they eliminate the benefits linked by residence; from a fiscal pact of Convergence and the Republican Left in 2012 where they recover only part of the benefits linked to residence, those who have grade three and if they meet a number of economic conditions. And with the current budgets you recover the benefits linked to residence, but you reduce the amount by half, which is just what the Dependency Act establishes. And before, in 2010, there was a part where the autonomous community contributed more money so that people, in short, cost less money to access a place of residence. If you want to reduce the list of unorbited waiting that we currently have, increase, as I say, the number of benefits linked and also increase their amount so that people can choose a place of residence relatively close to their home, to open the five_ thousand empty beds, so that people can have an alternative to their zero_euro policy for the construction of new public residences. By the way, a policy that is not only surprising because it is implemented by a party that claims to be left-wing, but will also leave thousands of people, citizens, who live in populations where there is no or insufficient housing resources. It would be the case, for example, of the residence of Sabadell Sud, promised in addition by its own councillors of Esquerra Republicana in the municipality of Sabadell, which, in addition, have been declared people not grateful by the association of neighbors after seeing their promises not fulfilled. Or the residence of Molins de Rei or the residence of Ripollet or a longetcetera, which we could be explaining here, right? It would be good, in any case, if they were reminded, now that the municipal elections are approaching, that they will not be given the new residences that they were promised one day. On the other hand, 40_per_cent of the day center squares are empty. It's also about five thousand, approximately. Do you know what an hour of day center square costs? Two and a half euros. Something less than an hour's worth of parking. In spite of the minimum cost and the great service they offer, we still have four_of_each_ten empty spaces. By the way, twenty-five thousand non-professional caregivers less than ten years ago, Mr. Counsellor, mainly women, for whom the State Government plans to recover their social security contributions from the budgets you do not want to approve. Because, moreover, they are like the hortelano dog, neither offer places nor facilitate the care of dependent people in their home. I think it's absolutely outrageous. We should recognize among all, Mr. Counsellor, that we will not respond to a waiting list like the one we have only with our residential space policy. We have to go a little further, which, within fifteen or twenty years, when the baby boom arrives at the moments when they need a residential space, or we have changed the model or it will be impossible to do that job, right? And for that, from our point of view, we believe that the model of day centres must be recovered and modernised, improving adapted transport, so that people can move to the day centre, as an alternative to those who are on the waiting list, but who have a slightly lower degree of dependence and which would allow them to be accompanied during the day and be able to sleep at home at night. Or we will also have to ask how we can improve and increase home services, how we complement the SAD, how we increase social and health care in homes, trying to ensure that technical resources can also reach the homes of dependent people. Because surely with what costs us a residential square we could give an excellent home service, which after all is what people are looking for: to be at home until their health situation is absolutely bad so that they have to enter a residential square or a social health center. And until then what you cannot do, who have this responsibility, is not to think about the immediate future that this country will have on this issue. In short, in order to reduce the 18,500 people who are waiting to enter a residential place, I make three recommendations: one, recover and increase the benefits linked to the residence, which they removed, recovered and then cut; two, occupy the day-care places that have empty and modernize the service and improve the transport, and three, repeat the model, seek the creation of service platforms so that people can stay at home, cared for, safe, until there is no other remedy than to move them to a residence. With regard to this area, I am pleased that you met approximately one month with representatives of the residential sector and that you also raised two issues that we consider necessary. On the one hand, the difficulty of the sector in finding professionals to work, with working conditions and little..., and wages, on the other hand, few people want to stay in this sector. And the need to increase tariffs, a subject that you have undertaken to study and on which you will have to pronounce based on the proposal of the employer and trade unions that will bring you soon. If I may, to these two important topics I would also like to add to the other that I consider very necessary, and it is the quality in the service that we offer in the residences. You will remember that after the complaints made in this Parliament, in the public residences of Alchemika, Bertran i Oriola, Bon Pastor, El Molí and Mossèn Vidal i Aunós, they managed, through a collection of signatures, to reconvene the competition of management of these residences. Well, in one of them, the competition was won by the same company that ran the previous one. I understand that you cannot, and I am not asking you to enter into recruitment matters, what I ask you to do is to check the quality of the assistance, to check the specifications, to ensure that food, health and professional care is exercised with quality so as not to have to see on the front pages of newspapers situations of undernourishment to the people who reside in the residences of Catalonia, with photographs with menus like these that we have sometimes seen published in different media, because we consider that the elderly, Mr. Counsellor, deserve the utmost attention, the highest quality, and that the public administration must ensure that what the specifications say is fulfilled, so that we do not find ourselves in situations that really attack directly the dignity of the elderly. In the reply I will refer to some other issues that have to do with large people as well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.255.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] To answer, has the word the Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Family, is the Lord El Homrani. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.256.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, today you've come to talk about the great people, and basically you've talked about the elements of dependence on the great people. We could have a debate a little bit wider on promotion aspects, on participation aspects. I see that you wanted to focus this debate on this area, I think we will have occasion, in other plenary sessions and in the committee, to be able to talk about other areas around which the projects are about the great people in our country. And yes, it has brought some very specific themes that I would like to answer clearly, concisely and also, a little bit, where we go from the department and who are the priorities that we have. First of all, you put me in a position of success, of death, of death in a situation of dependence. I don't know if he'll remember that 2016 you went..., it wasn't you, Parliament held the same debate with Constellera Bassa. Yeah, and he remembers, the ciphers? Don't you? (Pause.) All right, I remember, I think it's also an interesting way to see how they've been evolving. When this situation was raised to Constellera Bassa, she was talking about 22,500 deaths between 2011 and 2015. Now we're talking 11,000. We have done a job – we have done a job – and this does not take the gravity of the situation and we must continue to address it. But I think it's important to place this aspect: there's been a decrease of 40_per_cent, and I think this is part of... I'll explain the profiles to him too, because that also helps to hear the situation. Do you know what the average age of the 2017 dependency valuation request is? Twenty-two years. Do you know what life expectancy is in our country? Eighty-three years. Do you know that in most of the cases given this situation, people's deaths occur during the first three months following the request for evaluation? We are surrounded by a need for promotion and activation of these valuations. That is why we have presented this bill, which has not been linked to this parliamentary question. It wasn't like that, we introduced it yesterday, and it's about a job we've done, and it's a job that we've done that is going from five to three_months the valuation periods, especially in three territories, which is where we give the longest valuation times, which are the West Valley, the East Valley and the Maresme. And we will continue to do so, because we need to approach and we need to be able to address these situations. But I think it is very important to situate this, to situate the middle age in which the value—eighty-two years—and the hope of life—eighty-three—is demanded, and to explain that 80_percent of all people's deaths occur during the first three months after the demand for value. And, of course, the valuation teams are under pressure – they are under pressure. Miri, I will give you the 2018 data: 44,500 initial requests for valuation and 44,000 revisions were made, because they also have right; you know that at any time they have right users to the valuation review. And that's why we're doing this shock plan. From here on, I think I can talk from 22,500 in 2016 to 11,000 now shows that, as a matter of fact, it has been done. And it shows that this work has good results and that we have to keep doing it. And it's around this dynamic that we're going to continue. You have also placed the names of residential places and entered around a debate, which is a debate that... – well, as it moved... –, which is a very interesting debate, because, apart from it, it is a debate that we have had, and that we have it very honestly. Our willingness in these years has meant to increase the capacity of blankets around residential places. And 3,500 new seats have been created in these last two years. And as this will has meant to increase the capacity of the blanket, what we've done is to arrange places. Just as we've increased by 25_per_cent, in these two years, the PEVS. Our intention was this: to increase the capacity of the blanket. We can argue... You tell me and make a..., above a conclusion that it is a mistake, that is to say: "As you are not inverted into building, you are not inverted into places. And you say, "No, it's that the reversal in places is done from the concertation. And you have placed me Sabadell, Ripollet and Molins de Rei. I was able to locate him: and the Hospital de Llobregat? , which was the first municipality with which I agreed, I as a councillor, in concertation of places, from the same model that was made to Molins de Rei and that was made to Ripollet. The Santa Coloma? And with Granollers, what are we talking about? I'm also saying this because I guess when the municipalities don't listen to each other for a political question, I guess. Jo, at least, I don't work from that perspective. And that's why there are other municipalities. Another aspect that he has set up, and that is, has been one of the centres of operation of this department, because it came around: solutions cannot only be the generation of residential places. We are not naive: we need residential spaces – and I think that with the 3,500 that have been generated is clear – but the solution was much more there, it was about autonomy. The increase of 7_millions in the SAD is a very concrete example of which is our bet: serve as home care. Dependency, help with social home care. We are working together for the integration of home care services with Greetings, also linked to the whole response..., there are no ponds, and if we have more capacity together. And I think the example is clear; it's clear with this presuppositional increase in the SAD, that even so, and since you have placed it and placed it as one of the things that need to be promoted, we ask you to help us, because that's also what we do with locals and sometimes we find that we don't use all the resources that we have available. And you, as I know you have quite an important control over the work done by the municipalities of their political colour, can help us – and some very clean ones – because in the end the will is that, it is giving this answer. I've also got the question of the day centers. So yes; in the assumptions of the Generalitat there is an increase in the rate of the day centers. Just like there's an increase in rates in residential areas. We'll find it – and we'll find it. Now, please, you yourself, who know perfectly well the Law of Dependency, should be quite honest to place the 500_million that the State places on the assumptions of the State throughout the State do not arrive nor to cover what it should finance Catalonia for the law, because what it should finance in Catalonia for the law of the State is 700_million euros, 50-50, that's what it is. In the proposal for the whole of the State, it does not come up to cover what it should cover for Catalonia by law, for which it marks the law. Because I also remember: do you hear that dependence is a subjective right? Do you hear that in the same law there is a minimum guarantee that you should do the State and then the complementary, that it is the responsibility of the territories? So 700_millions of difference. Only with this, imagine, would we move from a presupposition of over 900_million to a presupposition of 1,600, complementing the law, complementing the subject right. Why do I want to get into this: hear that we don't give it to a sojourn or a sojourn, hear that we don't give it to a pensioner who either approves the law or will have no benefits? A subject right is a subject right. And we'd have to remember that. There are presuppositional elements, but there are even elements of political bets: the minimum guarantees, the penalty we suffer, and that is only to modify a People's Party decree. And they haven't done it yet. I want to place these aspects. And I've had a lot of trouble, but I'm running out of time, and I think in the reply we can finish discussing how we focus on the challenges we have around the big people in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.257.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply of the deputy, for a time of five minutes, has the word another time the deputy Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.258.0	Thanks, counselor, for the answer, for having in any case supplemented the data that I gave to the principle and that effectively show that the situation is very complicated. Look, I wasn't waiting so long for a list of figures as it is what it's going to do. Clearly, he's fine. What? So what? What are you going to do? How many seats will this year open? Will you get the day center seats back, yes or no? Is there going to be more or less residences? You said: "No, no; I have arranged with some assemblies, of all colors – I would only miss – "places of residence. Yes; while the joints build the equipment. "You, the city council, build me an equipment, which is my responsibility, of the Generalitat de Catalunya, and I will arrange the squares for you. Home, no, that's not it. Because you are asking for efforts at building joints of our equipment when your responsibility is yours, of your government. You will not put a single euro in the construction of nine public residences in Catalonia. You order people to pay for private residences; I insist, between 1,400 and 2,400_euros. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That this isn't the model? Yes, yes; the average price of the private residence space in Catalonia is two_ thousand euros. And I can introduce you to people who are paying 2,400 euros to keep their mother at home. And if you're out of the metropolitan area, maybe you'll find some cheaper. But people's reality is that they're paying 2,400 euros, that no one can pay. And the children, therefore, are making efforts; some are to mortgage and others are to mortgage even the whole thing. And this is the reality and you should know it. Listen to me, he says: "No; it's that before 2016 more people were dying waiting – ah, very well –; "now they're dying less. All right. But they die, eleven thousand. But before 2016 the crow was growing, huh? , any rere anni– any rere anni. I'm not telling him you're not making any effort, but, man, I don't think this is a pesso argument on the part of a person responsible. We have to finish it, we have to put it to zero, as other autonomous communities have made with a presuppositional situation like ours, with the same details on the part of the Government of the State, historical, in the Law of Dependency, and which we want to reverse: 515_million euros, is all that you give the State to Catalonia in these two years, 515_million euros. If he doesn't seem enough, go negotiate with him; if he doesn't seem enough, go to the state and tomorrow, which is his responsibility. But for now what we have today is a no to the general assumptions of the State. And not just for this topic, for many others. Therefore, don't ask the State for more money and for another gang to put stones on the road to approve assumptions that perfectly know that they benefit you, not you, not me, the citizen and citizens of Catalonia. Mr Miri, on the subject of residential tariffs, on daytime rates, it seems to me that I support them, but you cannot have an absolutely unsettled sector in the sense that you have to know or try to predict every day what will be your business, what will be your economic stake that you have made with your businesses and above all you cannot keep people lost. And I'll tell him some fears, because he wanted to make an inquiry with big people's fears... that this is no longer a question of money. You committed yourself in July 2017 to presenting a law of the great people, and the one you presented was the preliminary memoir of the preliminary bill. Which is being a powerpoint, so let's get this straight. And we're still with the powerpoint. We'll do something about this this year, yes or no? The full safety plan of the great people, has expired. Do we have a new one? Shall we make a new one, Counselor? Full security plan from the big people. This, of course, is from the Interior, but I'm sure you'll be very concerned about this. The Mark Protocol and Guidelines for Action against Abuse to Large People is from the year 2012; will we be left with this? Do we make another one? Do you do anything? And finally, Mr. Counselor, what the Government does to improve the living conditions of the 150,000 people who live alone in our country who do not make the gatherings or who do not make entities, for example, like Friends of the Great Gent. It will agree with me that a good part of the support and service for these people has much to do with one of the proposals I gave to the principle, and that we share in this case the model, which is: we have to try to make sure that people are taken care of at home and that you have the services where they want to be, that they are at home. Counselor, perhaps because you consider that you will only be here a few months can't condemn us not to have a clear line of what our country will be like in a few years. And you have the responsibility for the care of the great people in our country. And, please, set a course, make clear what his plan is, what they're going to do, what they're going to do, what we're going to do, why in these moments...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.259.0	Mr. Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.260.0	...no one knows exactly what's going to happen in this country in the next two, three years. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.261.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. For the final reply of the counselor you have the word again for five minutes... Counselor, yes? [[Pause.]] Counselor, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.262.0	Thank you. I'll try to go fast and leave nothing to me. I see that I will not go into the subject right, whether it is a subject right or not, whether they complete the law or not, on what it represents and if at some point they repeal Royal Decree 1050/2013, for which the minimum level of protection of the Dependency Law is regulated. I didn't get into anything like this. Because, of course, you, who are now ruling, are oblivious to everything they said when they were in opposition. I found it very well – I found it very well. That's it – that's it –; that's how I see they will continue. And we will continue. And as long as we continue! And we will continue to negotiate as much as we seek in which way we secure the rights of the great people. But what we would not fail to do is point out, point out where there are the systemic shortcomings of the law that you yourself pushed at the time of President Zapatero. And that's what we're gonna do. He talked to me about various aspects, he talked to me... and that's why I told him cheats, cheats because concerting places..., they're public places; when concerting places, they're public places. And that's what we've been working on, 3,500 places. And we'll keep doing it – we'll keep doing it. Now, what's nearby is having a clear full route, having a full route. When we increase the teams, the professionals of the basic care teams, by 35_per_cent, what we are improving the plants that make the PIAs, to improve the abilities and improve the response time to the great people. And you know it perfectly well. And this 35_per_cent, which represents 100_million euros, we did. And we did it in the program contract. Concrete, clear examples. When we find that the assumptions of the state with 500_million still need two hundred to do what the law says, we make it clear. As in our assumptions we have envisaged the promotion– 30_million euros in promotion to personal autonomy, 10_million euros in the PAD, 30_million euros in care pensions–, as from 15 September 2017 to 31 December of last year we have allocated 101_million euros to supplement non-contributory benefits. And that up here? To the great people of our country. And we'll keep doing it. What's the line of action? The one we have marked: healing, diversity, prevention. The answer cannot be institutionalized at all times. Residential places are quiet – we are not naive – but we have a job ahead of us. Because you, like me, like many of us here, when we go to talk to the big people when there's an opening of a residence... everyone says: "We're very happy, but I want to wrap up my house and the residential square is the last option I have. And what we have to generate is this. That's why we bet on the SAD and the SAD increments, and we'll keep doing it. This is why we are working in PIAD, to integrate, to have an integrated view of all the services that we do with Salut, because it will also be a way of effectiveness to the services that we provide from the social perspective and from the perspective of salvation. You also set me up with a few other aspects you wouldn't want to leave me with. The Catalan law of adaptation to aging. Yeah, and so much, we're working with respect. I mean, it's my turn to take responsibility for coordinating this department, and what I'm doing is reviewing the planned work, so I'm on line from what always means changes in the department. You've also put me on the job we're doing with employers and trade unions in the sector. It's going on this line – it's going on this line. Because I also want to remember elements; that is to say, the lowering of VAT in the sector we also have to contemplate, the role of the SAD, the role that the efforts we make in the tariff marc to which they must give answer is to the professionals of the sector, and this is one of the concerns we have, as well as the quality. That's why we're pushing the law of concerted action, to ensure quality in all you serve people, because the normal mark allows us, and allows us to place it. That's why there's a social service inspection, and we'll continue to act on it. And you even told me about a possible winner of a contest that's not closed and that knows it's technical, but I'm also telling him it's not closed; that's to say, it's not going anywhere. As a matter of fact... if not, I'm surprised, because you have more information than the counselor who has to sign the resolution. And on top of it you dyed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.263.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about knowledge policies]] [[300-00076/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the new item, the question to the Government on knowledge policies, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose the inquiry has the word of Congresswoman Alicia Romero, for a time of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.264.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, councillor, councillor, deputies and deputies, again. Well, today the Socialists and Forward Units Group does an inquiry into knowledge policies. The truth is that sometimes it costs a little to put a title to a theme, this one we want to deal with today, which is complex, isn't it? , which is the relationship between knowledge and territory, and the cities. And in that sense we wanted to start talking about territorial campuses, right? Catalonia has a diverse university map, with large universities, but also with territorial universities, which are relatively few: we have fifteen_thousand students at the University of Girona, twelve_thousand in Lleida, eleven_thousand in Tarragona... But after campuses of the great universities that are in the territory: we have the campus of the UPC in Castelldefels, the campus of the UB in power in Santa Coloma, a campus in Mataró, eight hundred students in Tortosa... It is to say that the ability we have, therefore, to make a certain taco of oil, right? In knowing in a small country like ours, it's very important. And just, so, keep that in mind, huh? , that we have 150,000 university students who are away from home, twelve_ thousand students who come to study in Catalonia, seems to me that this is a topic worth working on. We will be talking about university policy tomorrow with a motion from the commons, which we have talked about above all, about finance and taxes, and it seems to us that this is an oblivious but very important issue; very important because very often the cost of families is not just the university fee, it is not just registration, is it not? And that's what the counselor knows. It is true that here in Catalonia always – and we are very critical with this increase that has been made from university taxes, which puts them above Spanish medium – we are the autonomous community, it is true, with the highest standards. But the cost because a child of a family studied at university is not just the tuition fee, it is not just university fees; it is also, in many cases, maintenance, accommodation, transportation, because, as I say, many university students study outside their home city, and this generates clear needs. According to some studies there are, they would be around, monthly, of the five hundred euros that is spent a family, beyond the enrollment, on their children. It's a very important cost, and it's often not wanted or sorted by the student. The student has to go to another city, far from home, therefore, because he did not get the grade from the university he had more close to or because that title is far away. And, therefore, we also have to take into account this, this expenditure, very important, that not all families can do and that sometimes ends up with the student, so it's more like, I don't study the title that interests him or simply leave the university. And, therefore, this is a subject that we wanted to work on. Also, the other five right has the student when he goes to a city where he's not registered. It may seem like a very polite subject, but it is important, because many times this student may not have some social services, may not have health care, may not be able to stick to the library network if he has changed province... That is, there are some rights that not because of being a Catalan student he ends up having to deal with. And, therefore, there are some aspects that we would like to work on. And it's true that students, when they go to these places, generate wealth and work places, because in the end they make a very important expense in that territory, right? As I said, housing, but food, transportation, and also a cost of living the city, because in the end, therefore they certainly have cultural consumption, of the oci, and this also has a positive influence on the city. Actually, a lot of cities want to be university cities, don't they? This is always a city pride. And, therefore, this is an element that we would like to work on, because we believe that it is not well done, to be attached to the cities of these students. And this is not just an inquiry to the same cities, but also to the Government of the Generality, which is true that they do not exist in Catalonia, nor, we could say, to the Spanish State either grants or aid that correspond to this type of expenditure so important for the city. Miri, we think the student has to live there where he's studying, don't we? We think it's much better that you see the city and you see the city you're studying. This is also the model, for example, of the Conseil de l'Studio de Catalunya, of the Ceucat, which is working on this subject now that municipal elections are being held, isn't it? : as we improve those benefits, those rights that we offer to students who need to change cities in order to be able to train and develop a new life project. We believe that this is what we are asking, that we are asking ourselves as cities, but we are also asking ourselves in our own country, and therefore we need to think, we believe that we can move forward and move forward in this sense, right? , perhaps with programs linked to plans of gathering of the cities, but also in these two futures that I gave before: one, this universal access to health or social services of these students in these new cities that they acquit, and then, therefore, also analyze some type of scholarships, that we could look for some name, in which it is taken into account and in consideration these extraordinary expenses that they are doing and that, obviously, I do not accrue any other scholarship that at these times is... We think that this relationship between universities and cities and students is very interesting, if it benefits the city many times too, but surely there can be much more work together in this sense, right? And, therefore, we believe that all the rights, all the expense that it incorporates, that it is related to the student that is soft, it is important that we work it and that we give it some attention. But the other aspect that we also want to highlight in relation to the territory, to the university, to the territory, to the knowledge that is to be located in a territory, because it generates wealth and places of work, therefore, is precisely this, isn't it? : is to make a certain emphasis on knowledge transfer and territorialised innovation. Because if an analysis, then, the data we have in innovation in Catalonia..., we could also tell Spain, because I know that after always ends up coming out; it's the same, we're not better. There's one thing I'd like... I don't know if I share it with the deputies who can now listen to me, but I always like to compare myself to what's best, because it helps me get over myself, right? And to be better at anything. And sometimes I listen to too much in this Parliament that we always compare to what is behind us. But why? To go back? I don't know, I like to compare myself to what's before, because that's why it motivates me and encourages me to be better. So I'd like to, for example, when we talk about innovation, we also think about that, right? And, for example, therefore, looking at data on innovation to the rest of Europe, we see, for example, how Germany, in the period 2009-2016, increased public investment by 35_per_cent, and private investment by 34_per_cent. From mid-January to the European Union has increased the public a 17,5_per_cent, and the private, a 21,8. In Spain we have reduced the two, the public and the private. In Catalonia too, because we're a lot of hands here, aren't we? Home, we will have to do something, especially when Europe is making so much emphasis on innovation, on the transfer of knowledge, linked much to the needs of the territories, of the economic fabric, to try to make it more competitive and, above all, to be able to play in the world league, which is where we find ourselves, right? It was said that there was the Horizon 2020 programme, which had a lot of impact on this, that there were €80,000_million spent on research and innovation policies, and now there is the own Horizon 2021-2027 programme, €100,000_million. There was never such an ambitious program in innovation. It must be because it is important, because it is important that we can have a knowledge policy linked to the offer and also to the demand. Because it's the only way we can actually inject this innovation into our economy, put knowledge at the center of the economy, and that this economy is much more competitive. And we can devote it to different aspects; to industry, for example, right? And, therefore, here we believe that a very important effort must be made. And the territory has a key role in this. And I say that because many times the universities want to have a business park around them, entrepreneurial policies that help them locate this knowledge that they generate in the territory. And we think I need a little more effort from the government on this line. Because it's true that we excel in many ways, isn't it? In the research, and I don't need to say it, because I think it's more than written, and in scientific journals we appear; but in innovation, we know, we suspend. And this is probably where we have more to run, not just to be better at it, but also to be able to achieve more competitiveness in our economy. We have some instruments, it's true, for what it does to innovation; and I could talk here about the great Eurecat technology center, which merged many Catalan technology centers a few years ago, it's been a while since it started. We believe that there is a lot of room for improvement, the Eurecan technology centre; we believe that precisely no technology centres were in the territory, but we believe that they are not responsible, from our point of view, for the objectives to be set. I, therefore, would like to make an impulse here. Then, in the reply, I would like to comment a little bit more, because now we have the duality of a centre, of a large public technological centre, which is Eurecat, which, in fact, has an objective that it is private, and then a private, that it is LEITAT, and here we should see how together we work to solve this challenge of innovation that we do not only have to raise from Catalonia: that we are setting up and asking for Europe in a very clear way, right? So it's these two winds. The territory has a lot to say. We are a city of universities, a region of knowledge, a country clearly situated, right? In the knowledge, around us. And, therefore, we believe that there are two elements to work and improve and that they have a lot of capacity for improvement: one is our whole deal and you help the student to change the city of origin to study and the other is all the policies of innovation, of transfer of knowledge to stay in the territory to generate competitiveness in our economy and allow businesses, so play a league higher than they are now. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.265.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the counselor's answer, she now has the word, for a period of two minutes, Mrs. Maria Àngels Chacon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.266.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Member. Well, we'd have to separate two vectors that have been treated here. One is university access to students and how we facilitate it. Here we will never agree on the issue of the reduction of the price increase that there was in its moment. We always say that we inherited the management of a debt that we had to transfer, and obviously to the university system or we reduced the income to the universities or increased taxes, and we had to increase taxes. Here I know we'll never get along. But we do agree that we can now turn back just a few of these policies, and we have also explained several times what our vision is, the actions we want to do about it. We are talking about this reduction of 30_percent of the prices, not linearly, but facilitating access to the university of those students who need it most. We have also spoken many times, we have commented, of continuing to implement the issue of social pricing, because we understand that it is the most equitable. And we also talked about paid scholarships, to help contribute to the expenses of these students that you were thinking, who can't just not pay the tuition, but supplement the expenses of transportation, books, etc., maintenance. Therefore, social pricing, we will continue with the subject of wage scholarships, we will push them... And another point that you have failed to mention, and it is that today the masters are also one of the key elements at the time of determining the job placement possibilities of our students. We also understand and prioritize equipping between degree and master's degrees. Another different topic... He also commented, said Ceucat, a little while ago we met and explained to them all these plans that we expose like the government, we had time to share. He was also talking to us about European projects. Catalonia is the autonomous community that the most competitive European projects have captured, in research and innovation themes. He was talking to us about Eurecat, I agree with you, there are many aspects to improve. It is a subject that we are about to resolve, to increase, therefore, this transfer to the productive economy of the research and research activity that is done by Eurecat. I, on the subject of territories, territories and universities. You differed – and here's one thing I don't quite agree with, well, I don't agree – from great universities and small universities. I am more interested in the quality of the quantity and, of the quality of our universities, I believe that territorially we have it well represented. We do have to guarantee students' access to all the universities in the territory, but what I'm very concerned about is what every one of these universities does, how territorially we differ qualitatively. And it is that we understand that the system of knowledge, a little while ago – and now I will talk about it – presented the National Pact for the Society of Knowledge, we understand that the activity of universities must be linked to the product fabric, to the technological centres and to the research institutes, but much more linked than it is now to the product fabric. Because today, the world interconnects and digitizes massively and the actors that generate knowledge have multiplied. Knowledge is no longer generated only by universities, companies are also generating knowledge. It creates knowledge in different spaces and is managed by different institutions as well. Mechanisms of reflection, research and innovation have been put in place in all social and economic sectors, and knowledge is the key to creating democratic, innovative and culturally advanced societies, and it is in this context that we need to ask ourselves what kind of society we want to advance. That's right, you've been talking about presuppositional endowments that we need to increase. Of course. But above all, let us ask ourselves, before, what model of management of the knowledge system we want, what kind of society we want and what kind of society we want – I think it has become clear, it has become clear the times we have not talked about – we are betting for that society where knowledge is a key element, because these societies are really innovative, free and transformative. You have also made a relationship of what are the activities that we have, both at national and territorial level, of universities, research centres; we also have infrastructures linked to knowledge, such as the Syncrotro or the supercomputer, we have support infrastructures, scientific parks and technology also very important, we also have 618,000 businesses in Catalonia, 9,000 of which, 9,200 are innovators, we have the start-up ecosystem and, today, when we talk about the economy of knowledge we have to talk about this whole reality, not just from universities. Universities are a key, but not the only one, today. A few times ago, we were able to see, I've talked about it many times, at the presentation of this National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge. What do we intend in this pact? We understand..., as we understand that knowledge is this key piece, there are two ways of political iron in this sense, and it is unilaterally or consensually. By consensus, this is why we are establishing this pact, inviting most of the players in the system, where we are establishing these seven axes of work, one of which – I agree with everything you set up – is to analyze the interaction with territories and cities in the knowledge system. You are asking, as is essential, the access of these students to different universities. I'm going back to say, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'I'I'm going to tell you, I'I'I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'I'I'I'I' Quantitatively, we need to correct some data. That 81_percent of the knowledge, research and innovation activity is done in the province of Barcelona and that we need to correct. This is a fact that we obviously need to correct. For this reason, the 7th pillar of the pact; for this reason, linked to this 7th pillar of the pact, where territory and knowledge are related, we also want to establish a plan similar to that of the EGTCs – the territorial competitive expertise plans linked to knowledge – because we also understand that, from the territorial consensus, the lines that each territory has to prioritize in terms of knowledge must not arise. Therefore, we will not agree with the origin of the increase in taxes, but I believe that we will agree with those measures which must be agreed, gradually, because, again, I would like to repeat it, too, the other day: to govern means to have strategy, to propose actions, but above all, to manage a possible premise, a real premise, not only to launch desires. In this sense, therefore, I expect your reply, your comments, but, again, I repeat, we gradually leave that language of great universities and small universities to the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.267.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, for the reply, has another word the deputy Alicia Romero, for a time of five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.268.0	Counselor, I seem to have made it clear what you wanted to talk about, when I came up here, right? I'm trying to be pretty clear, aren't I? I believe that if we do an inquiry in this Parliament, most Members will be able to say that I am sufficiently clear in my explanations. I didn't come here to talk about academic order. The day we want, we talk about it, because I am very critical of the Catalan system and, probably, for what you said, we would also agree with the territorial specialization... I have things I agree with and I think that the system, at these times, does not have a lot of sense and so many university titles repeated for many universities, with high costs, is to say, surely, we would agree. But the Socialist Group did not come to talk about this. I was going to say, listen, when a student has to leave his or her city, so this is whether they are included or a follow-up of costs that we should be looking at working to see if we can help so many students who are moving to face this expense, beyond registration, because it's true, we won't agree, we'll see it tomorrow in the vote for the commons' youth, but I think these are important issues, because the role of the students in the cities, so it's up to me and I think that the cities are not to take advantage of, the country and the same students that they need, right? Then, with the other theme of innovation, listen to me, if we agree: we're fantasistic, we're stupendous... I think that sometimes Catalans want to be more than we are, but it's true, in search of us we're good, we have a lot of good universities, I don't say big or small anymore. I referred to the territorial areas, because I wanted to refer to this area, on the one hand, in those students who are going to live there, and on the other, because all the knowledge that is generated by the universities, in these territorial universities, not Barcelona, we have to try that this knowledge is localized in the territory, in the form of new enterprises, therefore, entrepreneurs, start-ups, spin-offs, but then also because we are able to inject this knowledge into the enterprises and, here, we do need all the agents working together. With the university, we don't have much to do with the university, because we've already seen it cost him a lot to do it. Then, when we believe here in Eurecat, that it is a technology center that merges many centers and tries to be attentive and loving to what is happening in the territory, with its economic fabric, we hope that innovation will improve and it turns out that it is improving one hundredth in the year, we have gone from '1.47 to '1.48 in public investment. Well, it's not bad, but until we get to Germany's levels for 158 years, we won't see either you or me, unfortunately, will we? Well, then, call a bet. You say, "We need to know where we're going. Well, then, I'd like to listen to the government no matter what. If, in reality, we are betting on a knowledge society, for a knowledge-based economy, that puts knowledge at the centre, I want you to look mid- or long-term and, therefore, say: « Esconti, I want to reach 3_per_cent in innovation policies and, therefore, I want Eurecat to have 20_million euros in public investment at these times in a presumption around 40, so that this 20_million euros has an impact on the economy, on the pepper, which is actually the one that ends up impacting on the territory and, probably, the quality of life of our citizens, on the social or health or education environment. So, let's see it, because you said – and I liked it and I take the word – about Eurecat, to me I would love it so much that we talked about Eurecat, because I think that Eurecat is a technological center that is nothing, that it is not restructured, that it is not just organized, that I don't think it has a good strategy, well, I think it doesn't have a good strategy, and I think it doesn't have a strategy, and that it is something that you can work on, because, besides, you have found it, I mean that it is not a project that you have started and, in turn, grow, will advise, that you can do much for this project, because, in fact, you have managed it, and, in fact, that it is not a project that you have started, and, in fact, that you can do so much, that you can do it locally, and that you can do so much, that you can do it. Miri, said Xavier Farrás, who must be one of our gurus on innovation issues, made a sentence the other day evaluating innovation data that I liked very much, didn't he? He said, "We have to scale the effort – and he was also talking about research, right? – and he says: « I compensate for the offer policy – the creation of knowledge –, he says, « that so much has been given to us during these past twenty years – is true, it is what we have done well – « with the policies demand, absorbing knowledge and keeping to our local economy. Many years ago, I visited Silicon Valley and at one of the research institutes we went to, I remember the director telling us: "It's just here, do you know what's going on? We investigate the important, not the interesting. It seemed great to me this sentence, because many times it's true, let's investigate what's interesting, what's very good, but what's important is that, after that, the evolving societies and, therefore, instruments like Eurecat, technological centers, should allow us this and that, many times, needs to inject resources, that in this case, Eurecat has them, but also innovative programs that can innovation, even everything, resources at the university to enhance innovation among the teachers... Finally, there are many projects that we could develop and that I think are important, that sometimes the development or the work of the Knowledge Pact, but I think that, beyond the Pact, we can go forward in some things, in some proposals because they are a reality and we don't have to wait, therefore, for a month or a year that all this work is going on in more depth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.269.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, for the final reply, the word Maria Àngels Chacón has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.270.0	I don't know. Maybe, sometimes, we haven't just explained ourselves enough, huh? Maybe it is. When we spoke of..., when we presented the National Covenant for the Knowledge Society, the seven axes are: mission and vision of the knowledge system; human resources; economic resources; search system; transfer of innovation and entrepreneurship system; support infrastructure for research and analysis of the interaction of the territory with the cities. I believe that all the points that you have raised, all the questions that have been raised, are questions that we will deal with in the pact. It is obvious – and I also said to his presentation – that until we have the pact, we calculate to keep it, so in a few months, we will have to legislate, in parallel we will have to legislate and we will have to manage the resources we have. In this sense, I also announced to them that we would push the Law of Science, because we do not have now, with all these positive results we have, a law, a stable legal framework governing the activity of investigators. We also said, we announced that we would start this legislature... we would not start, we would close what is the Law of nine enterprises, technological enterprises, emerging and disruptive. Therefore, we will make the pact, at the same time we know that we must manage resources and, at the same time, we will also be involved in regulatory activities. We agree on all the aspects that you have considered. I don't know how to find it, I don't know where the point of disconformity or discussion is where you stand. Resources? We'll come to terms. If we have resources, we obviously want to facilitate access for all students. We have said: social pricing, wage subsidies, equal the price of masters with the degrees... I don't know where it is the point of discussion, I tell you, it's a question of resources. But I've said it before, rule means to have strategy, yes, and we have it and it's more, the research activity that you think we can't let go, so, in general, we'll do research, we'll do innovation, we'll transfer it to the peppers... no. Let's go back, let's go back another time to the same. In what ways do we want to differentiate qualitatively, as country and in each of the territories and in each of the realities we have? We cannot go without the message of ‘we will make innovation, we will make research in general, we have to decide where, for example, in the field of biomedicine. We have the infrastructure, the technical support tools, we have the business texture needed to be excellent. This is obviously one of the axes we'll have, one of the axes we'll prioritize. Therefore, we have strategy, we also have actions to develop, I have not described some, but above all, management of existing resources. We can talk here about the count of the letter, but, in the end and in the end, it's deciding, with the resources we have, what we'll do. We have made it very clear, we are betting on social pricing and we are prioritising lines, such priorities as I have mentioned before, which are the key axes of the pact. From here, we know, we talk, and I'm sure we have much more points of agreement than we can a priori set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.271.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about tourism]] [[300-00077/12]] Exhausted this point of the order of the day, we go to the next, which is the inquiry to the Government on tourism; presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. And to present the inquiry, has the word the deputy Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.272.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, we already have that time when the Catalan economy was an authority in which it generated little wealth, in which we had a currency, in this country, much weaker, before other European currencies of countries that engulf us and that the citizens of which they began to discover that they had to leave their country. People who came out of their country and came to a depressed country, to a country that had a fantastic climate, that had a better natural environment, that had a good gastronomy, a good cultural heritage. And, then, the competitiveness of the sector, the competitiveness of what was here was simply given by the fact that it had a low price in an overwhelming environment. That, and that world-class tourism decided to go out, huh? People decided to get out of their territory, so there was no need to do tourism policy here, because the offer was practically behind the demand. Today we find that Catalonia is a country of the European Union. Catalonia is a country with the same currency as the countries of our visitors – among the four main visitors of Catalonia there are Italians, French and German, all of whom have the same name of their currency as we do – and we continue to feel a fantastic natural environment, having a good gastronomy, having a good natural heritage, but, as in the sector, there are a series of reptiles. When I want to set them up, I will advise them, and when I ask them what policies the government will do to solve it, I will ask them. For example, we have the security front. From the storm of the Bessones Towers of New York, the year 2001 to the storm of Barcelona of the year 2017, the stage is much more insecure than it was not time to go back. Surely, security will also determine..., the perception of security that our visitors have will determine the flows of tourism. I must say that I want to raise it: the challenge of competition and the growth of tourism. The World Tourism Organization predicts that by 2030 there will be 1,800_million people– 1,800_million people– who are doing tourism around the world. If we continued to have the same market share, which is approximately a point and a half, we would be around 28_million in Catalonia; 28_million is already 11_million..., 10_million more than we have had this year of international tourists. Therefore, managing this growth in the same country is also a great challenge for the government. There are socio-demographic changes. In the next 20 years, the people who visit us will be born between 1975 and 2015. These consumers are not the same consumer who came here thirty years ago. Are we ready to take care of him? Are we ready to attend to this type of consumer? Do we know him? Do we know this consumer? Do we know what consumption is going to happen? And what will affect your consumption habits? A welfare state may not be enough of what it has so far. Perhaps a reduction in the disposable income of those people who will come to see us. A company that is low cost, but requires first-rate services. This is a paradox, but it happens in the field of tourism in particular. Connected. And with different family structures than there are until now, surely. And the tech rep. We have to face the tech repte in front of tourists, in front of tourism. Clients are informed. Artificial intelligence will provide for what will tend and what needs these tourists will tend. And we have to be at the forefront of this. A new online intermediation. There's no one today who doesn't leave their house without, online, having contracted I don't know how many servings. Big data, open data, mobile environment, virtual reality, huh? Our client is constantly interacting with our services. The Internet of Things... There have been great contracting plataforms; great contracting plataforms that have been absorbing other actors in the intermediation and acting in the form of oligopolies. Each time they have more market power at the time of asking hotels or services that come, ask them for a larger share of the price. The challenge of sustainability in the social sphere. The tourist and the person he saw... the resident must find a point of balance. Cultural sustainability, huh? The culture of the country has to be dynamic without falling, perhaps, in the folklore of the same culture. Environmental sustainability. Many of our visitors come for the natural surroundings we have. We must be able to balance the natural environment with the same tourism. I'm an economic sustainability. It's so transversal tourism that it helps other areas, huh? : agro-economics, culturals, trade – trade, obviously, isn't it? Repetition of knowledge. Let's see – we said so – it's an activity, tourism, that appears in mid-sixties, here. He shows up in mid-sixties, and we also say he was going to sue. And so, business decisions, business decisions in the field of tourism are taken because the people who did so knew it well and, yes, by smell, by knowledge. We need intelligence, information and decision-making based on science, knowledge, foresight, market intelligence, knowing what our competitors are doing. It's a good font, it's a good one, it's a good one, it's a good one, it's a good one, it's a good one, it's a good one, it's a good one, it's a good one, it's a good one, it's a good If we're not able to do this, we're not able to have the tourist system we want. What role does the public sector have to play in the field of tourism? Does it have to be a public sector that intervenes or does it have to be a public sector that facilitates economic activity in the field of tourism? We compete, on many occasions, with economies that are not as regulated as ours. Therefore, we need to find out exactly what the role of the public sector is. And finally, the last challenge I want to tackle is the challenge of the sector's governance. There are private managers; there is the Administration; there is the citizenry; there is the same tourism, the same tourist, that should participate in governance. And I should do it with a coherent model, with a public leadership and with the well-defined roles of each. The public leadership, however, that each has its own role. Participate in the definition and implementation of policies. Opener, huh? , that it remains transparent; that it gives you the appropriate information; that all the agents involved in the tourism sector have the same information. Effect, with clear objectives and with assessment of objectives; evaluation of policies. Responsible, who reports as a result of this comprehensive analysis of policies, whether or not they have worked. Simple, let everyone understand it; a government that understands it all; let everyone know what his role is and with simple legislative marches. With knowledge, I said, with expertise and generating and transferring knowledge, of the same universities, which were now talking about the knowledge of the same sector. From the same administration. As you see, the reptes are not small. As you can see, great reptiles require great policies. In this sense, your department and the government of the Generality which policies will take care of it? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.273.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. For the answer there is now the word the counselor, Mrs. Chacón.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.274.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. I take advantage of all these challenges, as I have occasion, because I want to express what the tourism sector means also to the Government of the Generality, to this Government. One of the objectives..., we understand that tourism is a key element, it is an active element of the productive economy, of the model of country we want. One of the objectives of this department is to make all levels understand that tourism is not just a sector, it is the sum of many sectors both productive and non-productive, both private and public. During his experience the tourist interacts directly, as a customer or as a user, with sectors such as transport, accommodation, leisure activities and sports, the natural environment, knowledge, health, even education, security, justice, territory, to give us some examples. The direct interaction of the tourist with practically all sectors of our society is the factor that configures and defines the great transversality of tourism, unlike any other sector. Directly related to this fact, it is also essential to understand that in a global world and more particularly in a society such as Catalan, which arises and is the mother of multiculturalism, the border between citizens and tourists tends to fade since the tourist is nothing but a temporary city that contributes to enriching our economy, our society and our culture. We have to make it clear that Catalonia is not so much a destination as the sum of many, various and sometimes counterpossible destinations. You know, we've also done the foresight task to analyze what's the extra number of visitors we have. In addition to placing us in this global context, taking into account the variation of income per capita, of investments, the impact of the marketing, the increase in spending and the average state of tourists, actually this year 2018 there were 19_million tourists, 2025 we expect no more than 24_million. And that's one thing... we need to manage its effects. Tourism like any other economic activity causes positive and other effects that are not so much, some of which you have mentioned. In the case of tourism, however, the first ones are superior to the second and what is claimed is that we manage this complexity and do not assign it a conviction that seems to be already meriting entry by some political groups. How will they do that? We'll do it with two tools. In fact, two things that are already operational: one is the strategic Pla of tourism and the other is the Pla of marketing. The strategic axis of the Pla work of tourism are: the creation of a tourist experience, work to create a tourist experience beyond the tourist destination; work also, the second, the capture and retention of customers. And here I give you an example, teledirected to a certain audience of tourists where we integrate all this, many of the elements that you were saying. Today consumers are hyperconnected, they're from another generation and we're going to look for those who have greater purchasing power. In this sense the Legends of Catalonia is the first serious game of tourist promotion, it is the first all over the world directed to customers, to tourists from the United States and Japan of high power acquire, where we can still grow in the name of tourists we get. And I think it's a show, a very clear show of who the strategies are, of how we are already concrete strategies in which is the capture of this new generation of tourists. We will also work in the promotion of tourism investments, because we want an intelligent tourism. Here we have to deploy this model of sustainable prosperity. Also taking into account the five-axis conditions– competitive, we have to have a good level of regulation of the activity. He also managed the territory and its development. And obviously, the 7th is the key management and governance, as you pointed out, as you thought. At the same time, we will have to manage this increase of tourists, but we do not look so much at policies aimed at promoting this increase, but at managing the increase of expenditure. We want those tourists of high added value, who generate more resources, who leave more resources in the Catalan economy. And from here, on these seven axes, it's written, there's been twenty-nine performances. From each of the axes, for example, of the axis to create an exceptional tourist experience, we set up – an example – to execute the program of the elimination of visual pollution. This, too, is one of the aspects, said before, half-environmentally, also, has effects at the touristic level, we will also have to work. Hence the cross-cutting nature of the sector. For what it does to win and retain determined customers, we need to activate, put more action in the customer loyalty program. I've given you the Legends of Catalonia as an example. With eix 3, "attracting necessary investments, we must also activate the touristic investment capture program, not always coming from the public sector. For what it does to implement the best tourism of intelligent tourism, it also implies making a bet for sustainable tourism. For example, reduce the ecological footprint of those spaces where there is a massive influx of tourists. For what makes the best of competitive conditions, we have to adapt the legal and regulatory framework of tourism to the needs of the sector. It's up to, too, this regulatory decree that apartments, tourist flats and shared flats are. I had to introduce him. Also, the activation of technological innovation programs. And activate, too, the territorial planning of tourism. I, of course, the system of governance. You said this: it is the key to work from the consensus, and it is the key, too, to establish indicators that assess the results that we have set ourselves among all, that assess the effectiveness and effectiveness of the measures. All this, accompanied, in this strategic plan, in which is the marketing plan. We are already taking very concrete steps to achieve these results. First, in the strategic plan we define what in the marketing plan, the ways to get there. There are also more than twenty initiatives: value design; developing the integrated system of tourism brands in Catalonia and developing products in four dimensions, innovative and of high added value; trusting customers; marketing services to the sector: technology, innovation and intelligence; managing the big data, which we are already applying, which has already started to apply, has to be increased much more. We understand, for what it does to the governance system that you were considering, that we will have to transform the Catalan Tourist Agency into a result-oriented organization, we say, indicator evaluation, and implement the integral marketing system of Catalonia, and create a space of reflection, let's say think tank, let's say reflection space, of tourism marketing, because it evolves so quickly that we can't start from static tools. In order to bring to an end these actions from the department, we lead, yes, we have, a point of taste, also, conviction and complicity of all other actors. Because we are starting from a powerful sector, important for the country, a sector that will continue to grow in the future and that influences our society, a sector that demands the utmost attention from the government to lead it from a vision that pursues competitiveness and sustainability. And I'm going back to saying the same thing I used to say to the MP: ruling means having strategy; we have it. Governance means defining actions, we've defined them. To govern means, too, to manage the available premise, and I assure you that we will manage it with the maximum efficiency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-06-2401.275.0	Thank you, Counselor. To the replica... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Give up the reply. Therefore, we should conclude this point of the order of the day, and, there are no more points scheduled for this day, I suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock.
