ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.1.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's take back the Ple. Before following, for this reason, let me, in the name of this chamber and before the heavy fires that affect the Ribera d'Ebre, show – said, in the name of this institution – all our solidarity with the people affected, and with the municipalities of the Torre de l'Espanyol, Vinebra, the Palma d'Ebre, Flix and Maials. And all the thanks and support to all the public servers that are taking all their efforts to deal with it. [[Interview with the Government on the economic crisis and environmental and territorial conflicts]] [[300-00153/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The first point today is the question to the Government about the ecological crisis and environmental and territorial conflicts, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose her, the honourable Member has the word Natalia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.2.0	Well, good morning. Also, let me begin by referring to the fact that yesterday we went to sleep and we took ourselves with the helplessness and sadness of the forest fire to the municipality near the Ribera d'Ebre. So, first of all, I'm sorry that we're seeing each other in a scene of this kind. And send all the support and admiration to the Emergence Team – firefighters, GRAF units, rural agents – who are leaving their skin at the first line of fire to the Ebre Lands. And all the people that's painted. The rowers and rowers, the workers. The fire, we know, it hurts. The fire leaves a desolating landscape. Yesterday, a companion reminded me of a phrase that I've always heard in Empordà: fires go out in the winter. In a climate change context, these six-generation fire scenes will be more common every time. And perhaps, unfortunately, it won't be the last one to see this estu, an estu that is expected to be long and long. And that's why we also need to consider the policy of extinction: about how we put out this fire on our own days, we'll condition the territory on our own twenty-five years. We have to manage the fire, protect the good and the people. But the Mediterranean systems cream, and said: "Many fires go out in the winter. With a better management. Frankly, what a fatal coincidence, forest fires and an inquiry into the economic crisis. The Catalan countries, like any territory on the planet, live under the effects of a global socio-ecological crisis, which puts at risk the living conditions of our territory. It has been estimated that 1980 was the first year in which industrial development exceeded the earth's load capacity. It's been thirty-nine years since we've lived over our possibilities. Thirty-nine years ago mankind began to consume natural resources at a higher rate than the earth could afford. Today is June 27, 2019; according to the Global Winternacle Effect Gas Monitoring System, promoted by the United States Department of Commerce, today we will take 410 shares per million of winternacle effect gases into the atmosphere. At this rate, and that actually accelerates perilously, we will reach 450 shares per million before eleven years. 450 shares per million are an absolute catastrophe. And that's why scientists say that we only have years to solve this unprecedented climate and socio-economic crisis, and that every day is more present in our lives. Plastic leaves accumulate without stopping, and this is already one of the toughest environmental problems we face today. Without going any further, Barcelona is the second most polluting city in the Mediterranean, with a mouth of about 26 kilos per person per year. The Mediterranean has literally become a plástic avocador. In recent studies, Greenpeace pointed out that we have a density of plastics every time closer to the pacific accumulation zones, with a plastic material for every four_metres_squares. And that, 96 percent of our marine debris on the surface of the Mediterranean is plastic. Among other data senders that bring us to a clear diagnosis and that make us find ourselves among the oceans with the most anthropogenic pressure on the planet. For another band, a large part of these leashes, residues and emissions generated by the pattern of consumption production in which we live, pose between the span and the wall of the marine natural systems. The intensity of emissions and the volume of residues coming to the sea are a threat to both marine ecosystems and people's health. I retruce, weaken and disable sustainable economic models for those who live from marine resources, such as now the fishing villages of the Catalan Countries. Crisis that multiplies inequalities, social and geopolitical conflicts. Yesterday, the UN warned of the threat: global escalation will increase poverty and inequality; and it threatens democracy and human rights. The ugly alarm, last Tuesday, the special rapporteur on human rights and extreme poverty of the UN, Philip Alston, in a report of twenty-one pages, in which he warned even more of the possibility of a future climate apartheid, where the rich will pay to escape from the heat waves, the fame and the conflict, while the rest of the world, we will suffer. Capitalism. Extreme capitalism. And this socio-economic crisis in which we find ourselves immersed is a direct consequence of the expansionist dynamics inherent in the capitalist mode of production, which is materialistic in the increase of energy and material consumption, and which has led us to an ecological patch of 7.7 times the surface of Catalonia. An overconsumption of energy and matter that breaks the relationship of ecological balance between being human and nature, affecting the earth as an organic organism, while perpetuating and chronifying – as I said – social inequality. The dogma of the infinite economic growth – we have already spoken more than once in this room – is the starting point for a good part of the attacks on the territory and the natural common benefits that have materialized in the Catalan Countries, with various projects linked to corruption and to the undone benefit of the elites of the Spanish State, such as the Castor case, the contamination of the Flix pant, the threat of the National Hydrological Pla, the struggle for the ecological end of the river Ter, the quality of the area in Barcelona and Tarragona, as well as other actions with a strong impact on the territory: the PDU of Gran Via Sud ; the Parcmotor Project, the Barcelona circuit ; the Costa Brava, and the need to protect its coastline. What are we doing, about all this, Counselor? And let me say to you today that we are talking and that we are deeply regretting the situation of the forest fire in the Ribera d'Ebre... To the deforestation pocket that is now taking place in Lloret de Mar to make its estimated C-32. They're creating a dustbin. More than two days ago, there were remnants of logging, as a result of the construction of the C-32. Ask the Counsellor of the Territories and the Environment, but ask them all, in an exercise of responsibility, now and here, immigrated from a wave of brutal heat: even the works. Tell Dragados to give birth to the workers in the situation in which we find ourselves, because the risk of forest fires, in the area of Lloret, is elevated. And more than that, they're generating a huge dust. They insist on asking everyone. We've made a list of projects that link anti-ecology with extreme capitalism, and we'll go back to the Barcelona World, of which the advisor – whom the questioner– seems to be the ideal. Yesterday, the counselor gave us something and the counter. While the President of the Generalitat stated that no public euro would stop at "the Box", you confirmed and justified, at once, that as long as they were buying these toxins from "the Box", in which we consider that it is an opaque rescue, and even the most inexperienced can see that it is surely a bad deal for the public good. Yesterday he said he'd put on lights and stenographers: som-hi, so. How many hectares of toxic land, of unproductive goods will he buy from the Box? The 480 of the beginning? The 150 projects? Can you tell us, please, Counselor? Yesterday, the councillor was not clear about the question and we will do it again: how can they guarantee that it will not be the Generalitat, the public assumption, the common good, that all the risks of this operation will be taken? Can you explain that to us? Throughout this time, the Government of the Generality has been playing politics with the misery of people, promoting ludopathy, encouraging precarious work places. And what we're gonna do is plant ourselves in front of this reality. We'll talk about climate change, too. We listened carefully to the question from the parliamentary group of the commons and their response. We'd talk about climate change, and I'd like to... if it can be, if it can go into depth, what's your prediction about the law and the application of climate change. And don't tell me they bought a fleet of electric cars, because it's almost ridiculous. The previous legislature provided us with a pioneering climate change law in Europe, which aimed to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases with the aim of reaching zero emissions, the year 2050. Two years later, two years later, the main elements of this law have not developed. We don't have any carbon assumptions to complete the reduction targets, nor have we developed two of the most important taxes to reach the law's goal. They committed themselves to developing the emission rate of economic activity and the emission rate of nitrogen oxides from large sinks and sinks. And you, Counselor Damia Calvet, seem to have decided that this is not a priority. And don't tell me I'm not in the case, because really, at the material level, all folded, neither we nor anyone else sees anything at all. The Climate Change Law, without these measures, is a dumb paper. And they show us, a little more, that this immobilist attitude than you – that fills the discourses of environmental sustainability – only respond, as always, to the economic and political interests of capitalism. And, therefore, they ignore the cry of thousands of people and thousands of young people who want a future worthy and urgent measures to stop the climate change. We have already asked them more than once, but who are the reasons why their governments always prioritize the interest of a few operators, the interests of a few companies [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , going through the damunt of preservation – and I end up, president – and preservation of the environment, of the natural benefits and the health and well-being of people, which is the interest of the majority? Why do they make this change of priorities, which isn't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.3.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.4.0	... logical people? Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.6.0	Thank you, President; Members, Members. Madam Member, I must also thank you, as I did yesterday with some other questions, so that we can talk; that we can talk, through this question and the subsequent motion that we will have in the proper plenary, about aspects, therefore, which are of general concern to the people of Catalonia and, obviously, to the political groups that represent it, and obviously also to the Government. Let's start, all the way, adding to solidarity with the Ribera d'Ebre, with the towns of the Ribera d'Ebre. And also the admiration and courage for the security and emergence teams that are, therefore, managing this forest fire. Our color is with them today. You have spoken first, in general, of various themes of the situation of attention respect to what the climate change represents, with data, say, that it is remunerated to historical figures; the year eighty, that point of already crossing balance. And that's all we share. In fact, the Government of the Generality has been very attentive to these data for many years. And we could say that he has always been a pioneer and has advanced to what these reflections are. We were the first government to have an environmental advisory board, as of year 91; we were the first government to, therefore, also define in its programme of action to work against climate change through an office, and we were also one of the first governments to be able to make this declaration of climate emergence, a declaration of climate emergence that we obviously have to translate it into concrete action, in concrete action, before we have, or before we have, reviewed and adapted all the parameters that serve to manage this emergence, and accelerated so that it could be one of the objectives that we have to bring forward, but also to adapt us; to adapt so that the reality of climate change is not only mitigated, that it could be one of the objectives that we have to achieve, but also to adapt; and to adapt so that we can, in some ways, determine the reality of climate change. And so we do – and so we do. We did this because the balance that there was and that we are managing, so we have been translating it into concrete, constant measures of evaluation of all kinds of plans and government action programmes. In short, that we are in a climate emergency does not mean that we cannot do anything; that we are in a climate emergency does not mean that the country should be paralyzed. The country to do is to manage correctly, to establish strategies of mitigation and adaptation, of assessment of everything that represents the environmental impact, and, therefore, to include the landscape vector or climate vector in all and each of its government actions. And I insist we're doing it. We are doing this, for example – before we talked about the residues – with this modernisation of the Law of Residues; what we have is old, it does not incorporate such fundamental aspects as the same climate change or the circular economy, and this very week the Government approved the memory so that it could develop a law of residues that gives new strength to the Agency of Residues of Catalonia, a structure of state, to manage, as it has always done, correctly and effectively, with efficiency, also with a certain international leadership, therefore, everything that makes reference to the residue. Or, therefore, managing the day-to-day management of these projects. You have made a summary..., you have said "aggressions on the territory; there are some that you have specified and I would like to comment on. But what we do is we evaluate all the projects, all the projects that there are at these times going to Catalonia, and we do it in advance, not just in response to an alert that can legitimately, and we appreciate it, put a platform on the territory. Because, for example, from the Government of the Generality we are managing and developing urban management plans for unsustainable soils. That went unnoticed when we started it. We made a speech, a debate, around the need to re-evaluate all the urbanizable sectors of the country because we had to reduce, declassify, reorient all those that do not adapt to the modern parameters of management of the territory; they can therefore be of size, of slopes, of discontinuities... And this has been a brave bet from the Government of the Generality. And we want to do it all over the country, master plans of unsustainable soils, a modern, innovative concept, not answer to an urban concept, answer to a concept, therefore, of environmental policies. And we started with the Pla Urbanist Director of the Pirinaeus Non-Sustainable solos – we are evaluating, therefore, the set of urbanizable sectors of the Pirinaeus – and we continued with the Costa Brava ones. It is true that this coincided with an alert, I insist, legitimate, on the amount of projects that were developing, at a time of economic recovery of the country, to the Costa Brava. And it's true that we had the PDUs, first and second; some PDUs that certainly weren't ambitious enough, because they faced the easy, the unurbanizable soil and some unprogrammed urbanizables. We are faced with the Pla urbanistic director of unsustainable Costa Brava, who knows that they are the exclusive competence of municipal governments. But in any case, we've made some suspensions and we're now developing this urban planner. We are reviewing 165 sectors of non-urban land, which total 1,500 hectares, located at the expense of the twenty-two municipalities of the Costa Brava; therefore, an effort, together with the suspensions, therefore, is important in order to assess and reorient all that this occupation of land is for both economic and residential uses in the Costa Brava. We're in this. And you specifically referred to C-32. I have to say that this activity has long included all – all, all – territorial planning and urban planning of the country, both in the territorial area of the Gironine comarques and in the transport infrastructure area of Catalonia. And these two instruments haven't been developed by the current government, they've been developed for many years. We believe that it solves a problem of mobility – of mobility – very difficult; basically this infrastructure that will give is a better service to the veins and veins of Blanes and Lloret de Mar, which must suffer collapsing and congestion, and therefore also contamination and inefficiency of what is mobility in the network..., in its own urban network. It is an action that does not affect any protected space, no PEIN, no Natura 2000 area; that it had a finished project and that, although there was an environmental assessment, there was indeed a feeling that it required that we return to this environmental assessment. And I did. And the year 2018 there was an informed environmental impact statement for everyone, for all those who need to report a project of these characteristics. And actually the work is being carried out, with normality. It is a work that resolves the mobility of the Jungle, I insist, of the Sea Jungle, of Blanes and of Lloret de Mar, of the connection between the coast, the Maresme and the Sea Jungle, and, moreover, we have made it dialogue, we have made it dialogue with the assemblies. And he has, therefore, performed this work with normality. It is true that there are, therefore, people who are against this project and thus manifest it. And we find ourselves with a paradox, that the protests of these groups are preventing the right removal of trees that are trying to execute these works. It's so clear – it's so clear. And this has led to a reprogramming of the works, so that the removal of these trees cut into accounts is now a priority. In any case, he managed the work. Some figures have been given that do not respond to reality. At times there has been talk of a size of sixty thousand trees... I insist, they are not in any protected space, they are not in Natural Xarxa 2000. In fact, the project, which has an approved and informed environmental impact statement for everyone, does actually cut, because they have to cut, divides_thousand trees of common species. And, on the other hand, the corrective measures of the same project involve the replanting of thirty-thousand new units. The precautionary suspension of this action was called for, this precautionary suspension has not been stuck, and therefore from a strict objective of mobility and according to all the planning that this country has for a long time respected this project, we will continue with the works.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.7.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, it's the congresswoman's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.8.0	Thank you, Counselor. So, from the inside, the declaratory part, right? When we're talking about declaring the climate emergency without applying the Catalan law against climate change, so it's a little strange. In terms of climate change, it is no longer possible..., and I take your words, it will no longer be possible to mitigate or adapt mass without betting for a real and clear energy decrease. The data that you categorized as, I don't know, generals, that we share..., if we share the data, if we share an evidence about the consequences of this climate shock, of this socio-economic crisis, it's obvious that we don't share the solutions, because the solutions that you push are to continue as if there's absolutely nothing going on here. About C-32. Now it will turn out that it is the fault of the companies, to which we send all the support, of the Amboscats who are making a struggle to maintain and to preserve a space; that it has more proved to be a way, the C-32, the expansion of a highway, that it more involves entrances to a private company and that more has more often been denounced the connection between many political ones – in general terms – and the same entrepreneurs..., it is not to contemplate the alternatives that there is and that would be real solutions to the mobility of the veins and the veins, such as the unfolding of the road GI-682. I insist, now and here, without going into the background of the question: it is obvious that you agree that Abertis has a few miles more highway and that we and the people of "We're putting up the C-32, and that they're ambushed right now, we don't agree. But now and here, in the context in which we find ourselves, and I come back to question all political groups, it is essential to put a solution to the dust that has been converted from Lloret de Mar with piles of trunks and basements into a climate situation that we are living in these days. On concrete questions. You say that they manage, that they have moved forward, that they say – we already know this – that they are doing concrete things, but the truth is that we haven't heard much talk. He hasn't talked about what his post-nuclear plan is in a situation we live in in a part of the country. Also, connected to the C-32, he was talking about you on the subject..., it's not the Natura 2000 network, nor is it a declared space. In the Pallars area we also have an environmental conflict because they want to do mining practices and you don't have a solution. Conflict like SOS Costa Brava and all the coastline we've been talking about. The latest report by Ecologists in Action, Banders Negres – 2019 – shows the important impact of the tourism industry on the coast of the Spanish State and the Catalan Countries. The contamination of the holes, the uncontrolled wears and the illegal constructions are some of the threats that affect the marine feat, and you do nothing. They say they're pushing a law of waste, that we're willing to study in depth, but what we see... and what will have a climate change perspective, and what we see is that neither the Coast Law nor the Port Law... nor just the climate change when it's one of the sectors that will affect the most. Purins. 41 percent of the country's aquifers are nitrate-contaminated. What are we doing with this? Let's keep building and donating barn deals. The inauguration of the 5th Creuer terminal, on the side of the port of Barcelona; with only six _months of operation, a new record of Creuerists has sunk. In this sense, you yesterday – parliamentary group of the commons – were talking about this green new deal, but, well, you also have the potential to expand the port of Barcelona, with the consequences it has on the quality of the area. Quality of the area; in Tarragona, Barcelona, very serious situation. Please make an independent report on air quality. You, in a question we asked him in parliamentary session, said everything was fantastic. A satellite measuring, for example, the quality..., measuring the chemical elements to the territory. [[The speaker shows the chamber a photograph.]] Fix: Tarragona, the only red dot. Maybe it's not all as good as it looks. And we demand, we ask, the quality reports of the area that can give an answer about which is the true situation of salvation of the veins and the veins. Incinerators that don't stop enverinating the air. What do you think you're doing? In the metropolitan area of Barcelona 15_percent of the waste will be incinerated. In addition, cement factories also cream domestic residues. What's the reality about this? Can we apply part of this industry the Climate Change Law or does it not matter that Ciments Molins paid to contaminate more? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] These are the questions that we will raise in the next motion. I insist...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.9.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.10.0	... I don't expect to pose a solution, to solve the question of Lloret, because, I insist, it's a dust. Don't wait for the lady, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To make the answer, now it's the counselor's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.12.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, you'll hardly hear me say that everything is fine and everything is perfect, I've never said it. I am a person aware of the difficulties we are experiencing and also of the difficulties of management, not only of the Government of the Generality, but of all the administrations, and what we do is work every day, the whole team of the Department of Territories, all the Government, so always – always – going better..., not that things are better and still untouchable; I hardly have ever heard of it. The law is applying, the law of climate change is applying and is developing. And it's true that we're stuck with the main tax, the environmental tax, the CO2 tax on vehicles, but we're working on it because it's a 1st generation reality of 2020. It has cost more than that, from a point of view, I have already said, both competitive and technical, and, at the very least, we have to hope that we will be clear about the evolution of the constitutional appeal that the People's Party brought to the Climate Change Law, which was resolved yesterday, with a judgment of the Constitutional Court that fortunately, therefore, saves the tax, does not save other things, but in any case this does not form part of this inquiry. You talk about decline, I actually grow in an orderly growth, in a sustainable growth, in an environmentally sustainable growth. You're talking about energy decrease, I'm talking about energy transition, and here we are, in this we're working between the Department of Enterprise, which is responsible for energy, and the Department of Territories and Sustainability, so that this energy transition can be made possible. A short note on the C-32. The works are paid, the works are always paid– the works are always paid–, it is not an illegal and conspirative money transfer to I don't know who. Works are licensed, awarded and paid; in this case, we use an instrumental company and will be paid. And I insist that they are planned works, with a declaration of environmental impact, and that they are developing with normality and that, in any case, there is a subject of management of the work that will improve. You were talking about black flags, I'm talking about bad flags; bad flags on our coast, beaches and ports that, every year, demonstrate, demonstrate their quality, thanks, among other things, to the good policy in the matter of sanitation that this government has done for many years, before the Sanitation Board, now, with the Catalan Agency of Water. Agence Catalana de l'Aigua that, for sure, this government did have to heal, because it had a debt of 1,300_million euros and, now, thanks to this sanitation of the same Catalan Agency of the Aigua, we will have more resources to be able to face nine tons of completion of the map of sanitation to the country, that we have very complete, 97_percent of the population served, but that percentage that we lack, therefore, is difficult to execute, because it is in a very wide territory. In the purins, we are moving forward with the new decree of purins, the new decree of branch discharges, which we will soon be able to present the agriculture councillor and myself. He talked about the quality of the Tarragona area, he was the object of a question. We are doing everything we need to do about the quality of the Tarragona area. We have more measuring stations..., it is the point of the country with more stations that measure, in an automatic way; we have incorporated everything that the territory has asked, so that we can assess, therefore, determined parameters that affect the salvation and we have a permanent attention and we will continue to do it, because there is, indeed, a regulation that affects the emissions of the great enterprises that is to be completed, follow Ciments Molins or follow the Petrochemistry of Tarragona, they have a series of emissions that are under the carbon market, a part, therefore, that is not paid, a part that, if the superin, they will pay. The carbon tone is twenty-five euros, we started at five euros, and this forces these companies also to make a transition in their production models, so that they emit less carbon to the atmosphere, which is what we intend. And two very short points. Cheers. In Salau, there was indeed a permit to carry out mining exploration, which they claimed that, from the department, the donor with a simplified environmental assessment, we said that it had to be a complete environmental assessment and that is done and said, and once we have placed these requirements on the table, we have no more news of the company; therefore, it is a matter that we have, at these times, contained and that we will evaluate in a total way, if this advances. Anyway, we're at this point. I, respect the CRT, new head – new head. You and I have spoken on many occasions and there is no contradiction between what the president said and what I said, that there is a law, there is an urban director, there is a contest of settled casino claims, there is a company that has a – one – casino license at hand that has carried out the endorsements that it has to carry out in order to be able to hold it and there is an option of purchase signed, effectively, between the Government of the Generality and the Box, to do what? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] To pass these lands to the holding company of the casino license.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.13.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.14.0	Therefore, there will be no public expenditure euro in this project.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about cases of corruption in Catalonia]] [[300-00154/12]] The next question is about cases of corruption in Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.16.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors, good morning to everyone. A couple of weeks ago, we asked you about the cases of corruption in Catalonia, following a new case of corruption that had exploded in the City of Sant Cugat, and you wasted the two and a half minutes you were talking about corruption in other places, talking about the People's Party... But, well, as life gives you second chances, today we wanted to present this inquiry so that you tell us what measures you are implementing, from your government, to fight corruption. And the truth is, they have a lot of work and, besides, the data doesn't support it. Look, according to the latest barometer of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia, 70_percent of the population considers that in Catalonia there is a lot or enough corruption and, in addition, 60_percent of the population surveyed considers that this corruption is maintained or has increased in recent years, which coincide with their government. If you look, in addition, Catalonia has the sad honor of being the champion for those prosecuted for corruption in what we have in 2019. As you can see, the data, as I have told you, do not support your management. We started this legislature knowing the ruling of the Palau case, a case that evidenced something that was a secret to voices, but that we can see that it was a reality: that there were Convergence leaders who took a few bites, who took a few commissions, for facilitating certain public contracts, obviously, to their friends or to those who used to pass by box. And, in addition, the ruling recognized, it said that Democratic Convergence had been illegally financed through these operations. In short, a sentence that showed what we suspected, that corruption was institutionalized in Catalonia. Because, in Catalonia, we had to endure as the ideologists of separatism, who many sat there, in those seats, gave us lessons, moral lessons about ethics, while with the other hand they took it warm, as we have said on several occasions. And I'm sure you'll say that this is part of the past, that the bad practices are debugging, but it's not true. Look, just as we carry out this mandate, we have seen how, for example, the Institut de les Lletres was being investigated, at the time when ex-counselor Borràs was in charge of the entity, by partitioning contracts; or we have also seen how, on the CTiTI, accusations of misappropriation of public funds, of transfer of personal data, of active participation on 1 October or, for example, of finger awards. Or we also had to see how some were going to see the final of the Champions, taking hand to hand to the syndic of the process with..., well, invited by entrepreneurs who had direct connection also to the plot of 3_per_cent. And you said that in eighty years Republican Left had not had a single case of corruption. We can also talk, if you like, about DGAIA and we can talk about Mr Ricard Calvo, who was not of my party, I think he was of your party; we can talk about who was also awarded public procurement by Mr Ricard Calvo. But, if we talk about corruption, we also have to mention the biggest case of corruption that has occurred in recent years in Catalonia, which is the process, because corruption is not only enriching one by using illicit purposes, it is also the partisan use of institutions and public resources. A process we know that has plunged Catalonia into a political crisis, in an institutional crisis, in an unprecedented social crisis, but that, in addition, it has also collapsed to the court number 13 of Barcelona, with accused, with investigated, for making visible the personal data of Catalans, by misappropriation – there are so many that I have to go reading it –, by deviations for supposed creations of state structures or by finger awards. This week, we have seen how that court derived the investigation that had on the deputy Salvadó also to the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. If any citizen's deputy were in this situation, if he were investigated, if he were formally accused in a case, he would automatically leave his seat and, if not, be expelled from our party. We see how, here, the defendants follow the full from their seat. And I know that you will say that all this is an attack on Catalonia, but this was already said by Mr Pujol in the 1980s, remember with Banca Catalana? : "This is an attack on Catalonia. And you also said it when the UDEF began to investigate Mr. Pujol, saying: "No, no, this is an attack on Catalonia. And now, surely, they will say again that it is an attack on Catalonia. As you said to us the other day: "Man, if you talk so much about corruption, if you have evidence, go to the prosecution. Well, of course, if that's what we do, every time we find – it's what should be done – some practice that sprays or suspects irregularities. Look, just in this mandate, we've taken to the prosecution the payments you make with everyone's money to lobbies to promote your process. By the way, you could tell them to give him back the money. [[the timer riu]] , because the international promotion of the process is the truth that it has not been very successful. Or the donations that you made to your friends from the foundations in Valencia or the resources that you waste to protect, for the safety of a fugitive from justice... And, not to mention also the work that our councillors do in the municipalities, for example, in the City Hall of Sant Cugat, where also, following a complaint from us to the prosecution, it has been discovered that there they were assigned to outrageous amounts. By the way, it was delicious to see how in the investiture of the mayor of Esquerra Republicana, who took away the government from its partners, its militants, the militants of Esquerra Republicana sang « 3 percent to the militants who were there of the PDECAT. But it's more funny to see how you guys share benches here. They have work, as you see, at the head of the Transparency area, which is the area you are in charge of. And, besides, I think you will not be able – and you have already shown it – to courageously take the measures that must be implemented to end corruption, because, really, I do not see you suppressing strenghts, you who believe above the law; or I do not see you, well, and I refer to the evidence, removing those accused of corruption; or, neither, look, passing laws that protect whistleblowers from corruption..., because, right now, the truth is that you are not doing much to speed up the two that we have stopped, and you, who ideologically pressure public workers and officials, do not want or think if anyone dares to denounce corruption. Nor do I see you running out of plugging, finger hiring, and, of course, we are no longer going to talk about respecting the separation of powers or judicial independence, you, who surround the councils when there is a judicial investigation, I think you would not be able to carry out this measure that is undoubtedly fundamental to ending corruption. Finally, transparency, transparency is the antidote against corruption and, here, transparency shines through its absence, and our Members also have resources to protect them because you do not want to answer them. And there is a close relationship between that which they do not answer and that which later ends in a media scandal, with which we prepare ourselves when, in the end, we know the answer of all that is in the tail of the Bureau. And something that already, the truth, rubs... well, look, I'm not going to use strong words, because of the decorum of the camera, but it's that..., that you no longer respect yourself when you condemn someone for corruption and that you are trying to do everything possible to get a convicted man for corruption, like Mr Pujol, out of jail, the truth is that I don't understand that eagerness; you just need to dig up a tunnel to get that out of there, the truth. I don't understand that desire and I just explain it, because, knowing, that Mr. Pujol is..., as the Scorsese film of the '90s said – I don't know if he's seen it – he's one of ours. And, actually, I don't know what associations the brain makes sometimes, do I? , to get us to talk about a '90s mafia movie, but, perhaps, of course, as we spend the day here talking about coverts, there are those who have an Italian restaurant, who have a laundry and there are those who have a process; or whole families accused of corruption or friendly families who help to cover up corruption or see how they organize themselves to get the criminals out of jail. I don't know, they're involuntary associations that sometimes make the human mind. Counselor, we go back to where we started, the necessity, which is imperative, to continue fighting corruption – or to start fighting corruption, if any – the need to implement real measures, cross-cutting measures that affect all areas. And I know that you announced twenty-five measures to combat corruption recently; just when we recorded the question, you announced these measures. But I see these measures, you know? , like the plans I make when the year begins: that I will go on a diet, that I will go running, that I will improve my English..., that are very good, but that in the end they are not implemented and if they come to implement they do not have much duration in time. I, if I may, would propose a single measure, for which I work every day, which I believe is more effective in combating corruption, which is to change your Government and, more, now that they say they will do it again. Well, look, if you say you'll do it again, we also tell you that we'll do it again. We will continue to fight against their policies in Parliament, on the street and, if necessary, also in the prosecution. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.17.0	To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.18.0	Thank you very much, President. Member, I'll try to answer some of the things that you put forward, but above all... – it's that I don't see it now; ah, here, here – so I'll try to answer some of the things that I put forward and, above all, for what it does to the central body of what we've been debating, which is like fighting corruption. That's what I can answer, so with all the luxury of detail. Look, some of the things you've commented on, some of the figures you've given, most of them, are about perceptions, perceptions about corruption. And it's obvious we have to fight against perceptions. We know that perceptions, sometimes, are given because someone, say, is extinguishing the alarm, sometimes justified and sometimes not justified, right? So what I would ask is that we always talk about it – always – with measure and, above all, strictly stick to the reality and the truth and the facts demonstrated, right? Because that way we can fight perceptions better, and then fight corruption and do it effectively against reality. It's obvious that this has to be done, it's obvious that there are compromises. The other day, as you said very well, I already exposed everything we're doing, and everything we do about fighting corruption. He talked about transparency. Indeed, of the Department of External Action, of Institutional Relations and Transparency, therefore, this is one of the themes that, as I can understand, as I can imagine, occupies more of our time. It takes up both our time and our Dades Obertes website, the transparent website on the Administration of Catalonia, counted most of the information you ask for. Always. A 90_percent of the questions made by the Ciutadans Group are self-challenging by clicking and entering this portal. And, listen, if they want to continue asking us, we will continue to answer it, and, moreover, we will continue to remind them that they have this tool at their disposal, but, say so, if it makes them a certain persia enter the portal of Transparency, it is not worrying, that we will answer it by writing, but know that this tool is at their disposal and that 90_percent of what you are asking for is already contemplated. All I'm saying is, everything they've asked of us – everything they've asked of us – and I'm talking about the department that caps it, it's been answered in one way or another, there's nothing to be answered. You've been talking about other questions, which I think you'd like to comment on, too, haven't you? He's been talking about a couple of trips from the process syndicate. Who is this person? He just designed a new carrec that doesn't exist. I know the Union of Accounts, I know the Syndicate of Greuges, appointed by the Parliament of Catalonia, of which, if I am not mistaken, you are a party. Therefore, I would appreciate it if you spoke with the property of the institutions of this country, if you don't know how hard it is. Then he also commented that DGAIA..., I don't know, began to imply that things were happening. Listen, if you think things are happening, if you have evidence, take it to the prosecution, they've said it many times, take it to the prosecution. The DGAIA is audited and controlled by the Union of Accounts. Tell me what evidence you have, what evidence you have, and present them. Then, well, it's obvious that we're working and working to ensure the fight against practical evils, we've been doing it for a long time. And I think we're doing a lot of amazing and exemplary work, a job that, for example, is qualified as the most transparent of the Autonomous Communities of the Kingdom of Spain by some of the existing evaluation indexes. For example, Dyntra, which is one of the institutions that is responsible for evaluating what is the level of transparency; Spanish International Transparency, too. So, I don't know, if you trust these entities – and I hope they trust them, because they're the ones who have the most reputation at the time of sailing for transparency – then that too could be said. We are basing ourselves on a system of public integrity and ethics, which has been an authentic national anti-corruption strategy for some time now. We are deploying an ethical governance model that includes, for what it does to the Administration, an ethical code of the public service, for example, the non-acceptance of gifts. This doesn't exist all the way, as you know very well. And some of the places where you govern, where you, therefore, are supporting the government, that doesn't exist. It does exist in Catalonia. An ethic code that also includes a set of standards on relationships with named interest groups, or lobbyists. This is something that is also innovative and that does not exist in other areas. Public agendas, or so, that public bodies make their public agendas and everyone's access. The impulse of the ethical committee network... I'm talking about measures that are already on the march, that are already moving, and that exist for what it does to the Catalan Administration, but they don't exist to other bands. And as the project, too, we already commented on it at its time, this has been approved, we have a draft law on alerters and the system of protection of these alerters. Why? Because many times the complaints, like they have to be public and they have to offer the names, surnames and data of the complainants, so this introduces an element of insecurity into those who are informing about possible practical ills. The alarm system is a system for which it guarantees the protection of the one who puts the information to the service of those who can control it and who can follow it, go. Therefore, this, together with the anonymous ethical busts, which are the tool that allows this alarm system to exist, is a question that already works in other countries, Nordic countries, advanced countries, and that we want to introduce here, in coordination with an entity that is called Xnet, which I am sure you know, that has an irreproachable reputation throughout Europe, with innovative measures for fighting, for transparency and against any tempt of fraud or corruption. We're also signing a coordination agreement with the Anti-Fraud Office in Catalonia, meeting there often, and we're working there. And we designed, therefore, as I gave them to the beginning, an anti-corruption strategy so that it is much harder than in other times. You were talking to me about past times, paying back a few years – a few years – in the past. I'm talking to you about what we're doing the last few years and what we're doing in the government that I'm part of. An anti-corruption strategy that includes this measure on alerters, an innovative measure that I am sure can help us prevent any tempting of fraud or corruption; with measures to fine-tune in the contract, that is, that all public contract follows a system of scrutiny for which it is impossible to produce any tempting of practical evils; for which it makes subsidies also, absolute transparency in subsidies, that we can create data not only from all departments, but from all the administrations of Catalonia to see to which they are attached help, such as, for what quantity and, therefore, avoid that in this field of subsidies there is any type of bad practice; also in the application of the tax system, it can be used to extract money. So, with all this, as you see, we're working, and we're working intensely. On Tuesdays, precisely Tuesdays..., it is very good that you ask me the question today because it was scarcely hours ago, we could say, was approved the Pla de govern oubert de la Generalitat de Catalunya 2019-2020, which is a continuation of previous plans that still insists more on this transparency that we have to offer as a government open to the citizen with full democratic maturity. This is a government, the Government of the Government of Catalonia, which is engaged in the fight against corruption, in the fight for transparency, which is one of the most transparent, most open governments, as the least of the Spanish state, recognized – as it did before – for transparency agencies with the reputation also recognized at all events. Therefore, say 'you, if you have proposals and you believe that there are things that can be improved, bring them here, let's talk about it, let's talk about it, and among all of us we fight against this perception of corruption that I was talking about at the beginning, which is worrying, but above all against corruption strict sense, which is the most worrying of all. And I think we're doing it. If you think we can do better, bring concrete measures, ideas with which we can improve this fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the return of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.20.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Counsellor, for your reply. The truth that one of the statements you've made here are more false than the accounts that follow you on Twitter... This will also have to be clarified, won't it? [[the timer riu]] , this scandal that said that the accounts of Squerra Republicana, the fake accounts associated with Squerra Republicana, well, had acted by altering and influencing opinions on Twitter. So transparent that it is, so Transparency advisor, then it comes and if you want to explain it to us. We've seen him in the last few weeks apologize to Mexico for what happened five hundred years ago. [[the timer riu]] Man, I could have come here today and apologized for the corruption that has occurred in Catalonia in the last few decades, it would have been a good start, if you really wanted to make an amendment proposal it would not have been wrong to do something self-critical. Look, you tell me the perceptions I have about the data, because, man, I think the anti-fraud office, because that's where we pulled the data, is a sufficiently reliable source and I hope that, as you ask me to respect the Catalan institutions, you respect the data I give you, which comes precisely from the anti-fraud office. And the measures..., you speak of perception, we have the perception that you do not fight corruption, do not work for transparency, and that you are only dedicated to opening embassies, because I only hear you talking about where the next embassy is going to open, but of real transparency measures we have yet to hear absolutely nothing. Look, this is your transparency. You block all the political action of this Parliament, you block all the appearances we ask of you from advisors and senior officials of the Generalitat. They blocked when we asked for appearances to see what they are doing with the Generalitat logos, they blocked an audit that we asked about CTiTI and Cesicat in the face of these allegations of irregularities in public procurement. They have also blocked, when we have asked those responsible for data protection of the Generalitat, to come to appear. Man, I think transparency is that those of us who are here as public representatives are accountable and, if we are called upon, do not block Parliament's appearances even sometimes by some advisers on some issues. And about what you tell us that you answer the questions, because look, you go, see the queue of amparo resources that we have at the Bureau, because I think that's the biggest indicator. It is that even the Bureau has given us the reason, what you come to say here..., you say whatever you want, but we have the backing of the Bureau. And you're telling us to speak with property because I said the syndic is the syndic of the process, but if we've said it fifty-thousand times here, I don't see where the problem is. You respect the institutions, that a coup d'état, precisely, is not to respect the Catalan institutions. [[Greetings.]] You were talking about the DGAIA, that if I make accusations here... but, do you know that the Government itself has personified itself in the case of the DGAIA? What's he got against Ricard Calvo? Do you know that this is already being investigated by a court? Truthfully, I'm concerned that you don't know the state of justice of alleged corruption cases, being you the Transparency Advisor. [[Greetings.]] And look, you were talking about where we ruled, I don't know what reference you made. Look, where we govern, for example in Andalusia, in the middle of the year that we have been, we have already suppressed the strangulations. I told you, you're talking about measures, well, we're going to improve the web a little bit, we're going to make it all more beautiful, but really, we're going to talk about deep measures, as simple as the defendants going home and not sitting here in the seats. [[Greetings.]] We already know that you, as I told you before, the stumblings will not eliminate you because you think you are superheroes, you believe you are above good and evil. How are they going to go to the same courts, the same courts, as ordinary people, as wild beasts? How are you going to go to the same courts? [[Greetings.]] Besides, you haven't answered me about Oriol Pujol. The truth is, he should be ashamed of himself. It's just that there's really no way they're going with the sandwich and the file inside to get this man out of jail. It's embarrassing – it's embarrassing. Do you believe that for that perception of corruption data that we are seeing, which is scandalous, it helps you maneuver to get a corrupt out of jail, and also a corrupt who also has a family tradition in this of corruption, which is not just any corrupt? With this, come here, explain to me what you think as Transparency Advisor of all this Oriol Pujol topic, and please really face real proposals to fight corruption and not to improve the website. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.21.0	It's the councilman's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.22.0	Miri, I reiterate that I thank you for your interest in fighting corruption. And, it's more, look, I've done it before, I'll tell you again, ask her for her help. I said to him before: if you have any concrete measure with which we can improve, then fight and observe against corruption or fraud, then propose it. He didn't do it. Not a single one, not a single one. I'll tell you one that I think would help a lot, and it's that you put your house in order and clean, your party, Citizens. That would be a good measure. I believe that with this, then, they would help us fight corruption all over the Kingdom of Spain. Because you..., look, before I said to you, "It's funny that you shared a seat with Juntes for Catalonia. Well, yes, we share the bench with them and with a lot more people; in this hemicicle the bench, which I know, we share it with everyone. And we're in a coalition government, it's obvious. If it's graceful, it'll already tell me how graceful it is that you share government pacts with Vox, a clearly ultra-done game. You will already tell me how grateful it is that you share governments, administrations and coalitions with the People's Party, which is the most corrupt demonstrably party in Europe, with more cases of corruption, with more money involved in corruption networks [[applause]] Recognised, that it fell from the government with a motion of censure, that you did not vote, because of corruption, not so many months ago. And you continue, so, saving his neck, saving his skin, the People's Party, and pacting with him whenever they can agree and find no alternative alliances, that exist – that exist. I say: the best they can do against corruption is fight against corruption at home, at their own game. Miri, you, in Reus, remove your spokesman from the municipal lists because he denounced a case of corruption of his party, Ciutadans, to the prosecution. This was March 2019. It's just that we're talking about very recent cases. You've ruled a little, you've had little action in politics, but you don't know what you've done! Case Cazorla, Almeria ; his candidate for mayor's office accused of corporate crime. Case Espartinas, Seville ; its mayor accused by prevarication. Mayors of Ciutadans, in 2015, in the municipal elections, they won four mayors in the Autonomous Community of Madrid. Do you know how many of these four mayors were skitted for corruption cases? Three, three out of four, it's not bad, in good time. Escotti, Valdemoro, for mismanagement in his legislature, with a debt of 145_million euros. The Molar, condemned to occupy some lands of the channel of Isabel II, a channel of public water, as is known. Arroyomolinos, the case Arredadera, a mayor of his arrested per fraud. Listen to me, and that I come here to give lessons of corruption to me al·lucina, as at least, al·lucina. They look at the ends, they do this favor, because that would be, therefore, a clear, concrete, decisive measure to fight corruption. They tell us we have to row more against corruption. We've already done it, we're explaining it. You say I don't explain it, I don't explain a single transparency measure. Are you listening to me or are you not listening to me? Because I've been explaining it in the previous intervention, but... well, you're telling us we need to row more against corruption. All right, yes, we have to say more, but above all you intend not to say in favour of corruption, because it is then that they give us twice as much work; they intend to at least not give us more work to which we try to clean up and to which we try to apply transparency and integrity in public administration. Tell me, Mr. Gragera, if the authentic unscathed that is patenting your party today has nothing to do with your corruption and your corruption cases. There's nothing to see, this game, that more than a game looks like a colander and in which, then, every day they have malfunctions? You don't have anything to do with your corruption cases? Tell me the truth. Listen, they have converted, trying to imitate the People's Party, into a bad copy of the People's Party, because, without getting to rule as they did, you in cases of corruption and ideological drifting to the right have already passed them long and doubled them in the short time they carry. Three out of four cases in the mayors they held in the Autonomous Community of Madrid. This is a historical record in terms of corruption. And you know what, Mr. Gragera? You know what? Doing Humanity a favor, fighting corruption at home [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] They have a lot of them, and then they go and tell Mr. Albert Rivera to take the phone...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.23.0	Counselor, he's running out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.24.0	...and I'm talking to Mr. Macron, who sure can give them a lot of advice on how to fight corruption in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.25.0	Thank you. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into universities]] [[302-00116/12]] The next item on the agenda is the motion following the question to the Government on universities, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. Before we begin, it seems to me that, given that the proposal is signed by two parliamentary groups, which have two motions, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, as we say, but also from Catalonia in Comú Pode, the debate on this motion will be taken together with item 14, concerning the motion following the question to the Government on the situation of public universities. The rest of the parliamentary groups have been informed, you have been informed, and you have been given their conformity. Therefore, we shall proceed to the joint debate of these two motions, as we say, with a maximum time of intervention of two minutes for each parliamentary group, because we shall sum up the two speaking times, and of five minutes consequently for the parliamentary subgroups. In the first place has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance, the deputy Mrs.Alícia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.26.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor, Counselor. Well, as you know, fifteen days ago we asked the government about the delicate situation that universities are looking at, not today, but a while ago, but it's true that the rectors have begun to raise their eyes a little more. They, who get used to being careful and cautious at the time of making their own, so, complaints, this time they're done enough. It was on Tuesday that all the Rectors of the Catalan public universities published an article in a media outlet, and in it they expressed, therefore, what was their... [[Widow's remorse.]] There's a lot of sound, isn't there? , President. Excuse me, huh? And in this article they, therefore, expressed the situation that they were patenting, right? Obviously, we have not talked much in this Parliament, but it is certain that, from the year 2011, 2012 until today, the presuppositional details have been around 30_per_cent, 25, 30_per_cent approximately. There was an increase in university fees of 66_per_cent; it was done to try to make up for this funding gap, but that was not the case either. There has been no investment plan in these years because we can update our universities' equipment, and there have also been a lot of complaints about the directors who have some of their very obsolete installations and which, therefore, makes it difficult for example to move forward in aspects related to research or research. And, therefore, this situation, which has worsened with the passage of time, because since 2012 until today, seven years have passed, they have not seen it compensated, they have not reverted to these details. Especially when 2012, when these were done, it was expressly communicated to the rectors that there were some details for the conjunctural moment that was lived. We were at a time of crisis, of many difficulties, and it was said that they were conjunctural and that, therefore, a better time the economy would be reversed. The economy has improved, said Vice President Aragones day and day. And, therefore, we do not see this reversal of detail in the field of university, we are not putting more funding to universities, we are not reducing taxes as many times as approved in this Parliament, and so it seems to us that it is time, too, to join the eyes of the Rectors, to say the least. That is why many times we listen to the President, the Councillors, and so many Members in this Parliament say that university is so important, that we have excellent universities, that our search is for the best in the world if we compare it with the people, all these facts that you say, that in the regions it is true that we are very well situated. We're always talking about this good situation at Catalan universities. In fact, yesterday – the councilwoman tweeted, I also tweeted – she gave eleven Spanish universities European campuses, which is a very important project for universities; of these eleven are Catalan, the Autonomous, the University of Barcelona, the Pompeu Fabra University and the UPC. In addition, the University of Barcelona, coordinating one of the European projects. So, that's great news. But beyond congratulating them and encouraging them to continue working, it is not only possible to applaud them, but also to thank them for this work by putting more resources to them, because, as we have already said more than once, they are lost, they are starting to be very sluggish. I, therefore, need to review this funding. I remember, and I said it 15 days ago, that 2016 we agreed with the government on a college motion we agreed to, huh? Therefore, a little naive perhaps, now in perspective, that would increase funding to universities whenever there was a progress in tax receipts. I told you, there's been a lot more tax receipts. To give an example, in direct taxes, we passed the 2016 of 9,100_million euros in admissions to 2018 10,570_million euros. That is to say, there has been a significant increase in tax receipts. This is what was asked at the time of the motion: if tax receipts are increased, then we will increase the endowment to the universities. So, look, it's been three years and who spends years, and that promise, approved in this Parliament, didn't come true. So, start..., we cost to believe in what the government tells us. We're the ones who want to be made. And I think that's what the rectors are asking for, too. I don't want to be the bearer of the rectors, I'd just be missing; the rectors have their placards and they're obviously people with huge prestige. But as a parliamentary group we do make our own requests because... not today, but we have made them for a long time. And, therefore, I think it's time to say enough and put resources in the universities. The other day, a senior General's office told me on Twitter, well, that college was a priority, and childhood and adolescence, and dependence and... yeah, of course, and everything. But, look, I want to tell this government – and I know it's hard that only Consteller Chacón is there – I'd like to hear from Mr. Aragonès – that to rule is to rule – to rule is to prioritize – and not to prioritize is to be mediocre. And to say that everything is a mediocre priority – to say that everything is a mediocre priority. To rule is to decide and put resources where we think we need to. And the Socialists and Forward Units Group, which, representing the group I'm talking about, did when it ruled. And 2010 made a financing plan with increasing universities, doubling funding to universities, from 630_millions to 1,000_millions. It's hard to tell, because in that government there was Republican Left – there was Republican Left –, and where is that Republican Left of 2010 that agreed with the universities to double funding to the universities and put almost 700_million euros in investments to the universities? Where's that Republican Left? So, well, my party, like it showed, and when it came to making a premise, it prioritized and decided, I can tell. I, mirin, may you say to me: "We have no presupposition. Mirin, they have no presupposition, and I'm going back to say, because of their inability to agree. Because here they haven't brought a presupposition yet, they haven't brought it; I guess because they're not able to remember it. But, I repeat, it is his obligation and responsibility, to bring a presumption to Parliament and to approve it – and to approve it. Yesterday, Mr. Aragones spoke of the Law of service contracts to people. Since you can't come here without the humility you need to seek agreements to pass a law. If you don't have the majority – if you don't have the majority – you have to give in and agree, because, if you don't, you don't approve of the law or the Habitat Order or so many other things. Therefore, if you want an approved premise, you have to come and negotiate and give in. And one of the priorities of this group that talks to them is the universities. We'll talk about who the others are, but the university will be one, why, if we don't put knowledge at the center of everything, if we don't put knowledge at the center of the economy, what economic model do we want? Because we have been very critical in this room of Barcelona World and the sun and platja tourism. So what economy do we want if we don't put knowledge in the center? Therefore, it seems to me that it is already a cry that we decide that knowledge, that university, which is where it is generated this knowledge, that is where we have to localize this knowledge in the territory, through the economy, through transfer, research, which generates social and economic adventures, is a priority. And it seems incredible to me that another freighter tells me to Twitter that: "With so many other priorities. So I repeat them, and I repeat them many times: to rule is to prioritize, the rest is mediocre, and the rest is demagogic. Governance is a priority. If you don't prioritise the university, say this here and tell the rectors, because what it can't be is that in front of a proposal that we have agreed, that for the coming year we have 900_million euros, that it's not so much to get to this xifra, 900_million euros, and 2022, 1.300 euros, that it's an increase that would go on to the increase of the tickets that are there with the financing model or with taxes, you don't make this effort. And now we're talking about universities. Then we'll talk about something else, but now we're talking about it. We believe that with the details there have been in the past few years, I would now play an effort, 900_million by 2020. And they'll say to me, "Well, 2020 doesn't know if there's going to be a presupposition. Listen, if we want to assume, they'll assume, if they're able to negotiate and make sure they're true, with sincerity, with humility and honesty to wake them up, because it's because we come here to do this. What can't be is that we have a government that has no presupposition since 2017. So, escort, could 2020 have these 900_millions? Yes, if it's really true to negotiate. And by 2022 we could have 1,300? So probably also, and, if not, we could go to bed. But you, we've tried, it's true, with Mr. Lluís Font and Mr. Castellà, with the negotiations with the department, trying to reach an agreement. But we do not want to negotiate wreaths, it is that we should be able to increase this premise, because, escort, while the Autonomous University has a presumption of 300_million euros, the University of the Basque Country, very similar, in te 420. And we're asking for so many things at the university... the ACUP presented us with papers on the EPIF, that we agree, that it will be completed by the universities, but with what resources? It's just that we have to put in the resources. That's why we wanted to focus the motion on these three points: finance, investment and taxes. We are very grateful for the presentations made by the Ciutadans Group, which is very dedicated to internationalization, to excellence at university, but it will not be possible if we do not have resources. Also at the ACP, with all the proposals turned to the EPIF, which will be completed, which we have to put in resources because it can be completed, but we believe that this motion must be net: finance, investments and taxes. And what will the government say about this? It's what we want to listen to today, because if they don't approve, what will they look at, on the other hand, and another young man without approval? I think it's up to you, if it's not an agreement here, to at least do it with the rectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of public universities]] [[302-00118/12]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.28.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, you will advise, have reported in the public universities 311_million euros from the assumptions of 2011, a 30_percent of the assumption in public universities, 311_million euros in new years, which means a very simple thing: the universities have worked nine years with the assumptions of only six. There are three years of assumptions that haven't been charged, and that goes to the public universities in this country, which are a key institution to guarantee equal opportunities and the generation of knowledge. Now imagine, any of you, the one who supposes for the family economy to live three years with the sum of only two. That, while it has cost us to subsidise the highest returns in this country with tax subsidies, has also been around €2,000_million. And I think that's a shame. I think that having retaliated 2,250_million euros in universities in just nine years, while taxing the higher returns of this country is a shame. And despite everything, we don't ask them for the moon, nor do we ask them what we think we would do if we had governance responsibilities, we ask them for something very simple, which is to ensure the economic survival of the public universities in this country, we don't ask for anything else. Let them ensure for 2020, the economic survival of the public universities of this country, and let us agree as we revalue the public university any year to overcome the crisis of the current financing model. All right, all right, We ask that the presuppositions of 2020 are 900_million euros, which is what the rectors of public universities ask for, for another band, so that they do not fail. Of €900_million, when 2010 was €944_million. And I think this is the offer of the least we can put on the table today. And we ask you one thing: that 2022 is 1,300_million euros, that it is not asking for the moon, because if we had revalued the universities from 2010 until it came back, the assumption this year would already exceed 1,000_million euros. And, therefore, what we basically ask of them is that they make the necessary effort to ensure that public universities do not fail this year and that they make the necessary efforts to reverse the university details eleven years later – eleven years later – look at them if we give them the margin. In fact, we already have them today: that you will not find in any negotiation a proposal on our part that is less than the one we have today, because precisely we consider that it is the least effort that a decent government has to make to ensure the viability of its model of public universities. But the problem is no longer a question of asking for more effort, it is no longer a problem of asking the Rectors to listen, that you listen to the students, that you listen to the public workers, the problem is that while you don't do this, we need to know by the premise that the government gives 120_million euros to the Box to buy some land. To buy him some land for what? To make public habitation? , to eliminate barracks in this country? No, 120_million euros to buy some land because a macrocase is built. What an irresponsible and shameful government. Which lacks absolute priority, public responsibility and respect for public workers and students in this country. But it doesn't end here, said Alícia, the director of universities, who says "university, social priority and the director general of suppositions says: "With all respect, is there anything that isn't a priority? Greetings, bressol schools, guaranteed income, dependency... I already know it must be hard for the Republican Left and Councillor Buch to have closed one hundred and thirty Twitter accounts to make fake news to social media, but, man, we don't put the government's top ranks to make fake news in this country. [[some applause]] A little shame and a little respect for the public institutions of this country. A bit of a ridiculous feeling, that more than not giving explanations about why a government advisor relates to the fabrication of fake accounts to lie to social networks we have to endure seeing high levels of government and government institutional networks lying and defaming to Twitter, which shame and which public irresponsibility. [[Widow's remorse.]] But is it that more, from when the schools of Bressol – silence, please – from when the schools of Bressol have been a priority for this government? When has a priority for this government been the schools in Bressol if you have abandoned all the assemblies in this country? When has guaranteed income or the law of dependence been a priority, if I am the government with the most incompliments of the whole state? Home, it's a little decency. To Mrs. Tarrach, to the Director General of Presumptives, you can say from my side that what I am sure is not a priority for us is the 35_million euros per year that this Government devotes to paying high amounts allocated to it, that this is not a priority for us, but that, while covering them, you keep the decency, you keep the honesty that is required of a Director General of Presumptives to social media and that it is not acting as a troll, that you have neither the burden nor the state to do so. And now the lamentations come. We're extending the assumption, but what did you offer us at the last negotiation of assumptions? Basically, your presupposition proposal was not to reduce the highest taxes in the whole State and consolidate 25_per_cent retails in public universities, and let's give you one thing, for negotiations that will come in the near future or in the near future, you can put the false accounts on Twitter that you want to defame, you can put the other government officials to defame, you can do the press wheels that your spokesman does, that are a bit of alien shame, to explain lies, you can say that they are the most social presuppositions of history, but we will never approve a proposal more than we have done for the public universities in this country, because we do not approve any of our public presuppositions in the guarantor. 900_millions by 2020 and 57_millions more than it costs to lower taxes by 30_per_cent in this country, by 30_per_cent, which is half of what you have increased, not just the government in 2011, all of which are governments until today, and therefore we do not ask you for the moon, but we are now giving you one euro less than we have in this young man. And we do not accept it for a very simple reason, because we do not accept that the public education of this country is worth less public administration efforts than building the Barcelona World. We believe that this is an unworthy shame of a decent government. And a council that I'd like you to give to Mr. Aragonès: the next time you're married to Mr. Fainé, you give him a yogurt, but don't compromise the public services or the territories of this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.29.0	To defend the papers presented has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.30.0	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... If I may, Mr President, my first words are intended to congratulate and aggravate the public workers that today, that yesterday night they are leaving their hair to extinguish, therefore, a fire. A fire is a disaster at the Ribera d'Ebre, so many from here, from the parliamentary group, from the Parliament, many thanks for your work. [[Greetings.]] We're dealing with two motions that we jointly substantiate, two university motions, two motions that, as you can see, are up to and including exactly the same page, and that's why, well, these motions aren't corresponding when they feel, right? , to the direct policy of the parliamentary activity of the groups, but this is, well, a literal, accurate transcription of the great document that was produced by the ACP and published, therefore, to the networks. So they make these complaints, which these groups think are doing very well to take us to Parliament and to take us to the camera. Therefore, today we are focusing on the debate in which the ACP is asking the Government, not so much the groups, and so I can make a brief reference to what this group and this Member speaking to you, so he did say to the ACP representative when he appeared in Parliament and, in the same vein, so we will do his own day to the next Committee of Enterprise, because again, so I understand that the representatives of the ACP will come to explain what we are talking about today. So they're worried, so are we. If it's true that I would have liked to have greeted them but I see that they're not accompanying us today, that's to say, they've sent these cards, so I think they'll be escorting us to the Enterprise Commission soon. That said, the premise for excellence..., so it is obvious that it is absolutely insufficient, and if we want a good teaching, if we want to search for quality, competitive, it does not escape anyone who requires money. I felt yesterday to the very honorable President of the Generality as with a certain cophoism, to which we are already accustomed..., I remembered that six degrees, the last year, were inclusive between the fifty, between the QS of the world ranquing, which is magnificent; now, perhaps the rebentism would forget them, right? to mention, therefore, those degrees and those universities which had dropped from the scale. In any case, celebrate, because I think today is great news, it has been said, that eleven Spanish universities have entered among these supercamps of Europe. And since we are in the Parliament of Catalonia, as it cannot be in any other way, thank and congratulate these four campuses which, of these eleven, are the chosen ones to represent us also at the supercampus. Therefore, from here, our congratulations. In third consideration, comment, therefore, that excellence, in our opinion – not because the ACP says so, but now I speak on behalf of the group to which I represent – requires changes, and these changes must also be at the university. And in our opinion – and in what I know I know that I am insistent on –, always oriented to evaluation, always oriented to the evaluation of results, and in order to make this clear – we have to make it clear – that we always have to hold the debate with quality indicators. In the case of the university, however, there are clearly not many quality indicators in teaching; those of research, which are absolutely, therefore, used; those of occupation; those of internationalization, and therefore, to employ them to make a real model of excellence is what we consider to have an absolute priority at present; in the band, obviously, that without funding or without a proper funding this is not possible. But, in any case, what has not been discussed, between which Mr. President Torra said yesterday and what we certainly think the majority, is that the current university is extended, in the general sense, from the great international circles. That doesn't just say the QS, it's all said, and so I need to make some effort, so, to improve this, I think it should be a general feeling. The fourth consideration would also be to talk about the access barriers we have shared. It's not exclusive to Catalonia, but Catalonia is a tough topic, because it's expensive. Actually, it's the most caring we have in all of Spain. Plus, there's a few scholarships. Moreover, there is a clear government failure here, because all opposition groups, therefore, we have asked and approved in very lengthy motions and also to commissions to lower university taxes, we have agreed here a 30_per_cent, and the government's failure, as usual, is sustained and maintained. I don't know how many times we'll have to ask for more. In five places, the young lady is talking about recovering the calculations made by the ACUP. They say up to 1,300_million; I think it's an estimate. I, I insist, believe that it is necessary to finance more by results, by questions, therefore, expendable, tangible and objective. But well, in any case, in this brand we agree, because obviously we come out of a very low position of financing, and therefore a better one is obvious. Now, it's obvious that in order to discuss what this future funding means, to start with assumptions, assumptions that unfortunately Catalonia is neither there nor we expect. In this sense, you, lords of the Government, have lost a year already to take care of the Catalan public universities, a year to take care of themselves no more or less than the future of Catalonia. What changes can a government make in the matter of universities that can't even approve its assumptions? So no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Moving on to the sisena consideration, it would also be talking about the past..., since we are talking about the ACP and our own..., or the groups that have presented these motions have made their own the words of the ACP, so just two or three days ago published the ACP another document, which is certainly very interesting, entitled "University, social priority and I will read two questions in a row. The first saying: « Only the 10_percent of the students of the universities of the Living Range come from families with a lower family size level, and, in this sense, one of our studies, as we have always presented the last legislatures, is in favour of more scholarships, precisely to avoid this inequality; totally in favour of working it. And the second question of this document is that they say: "We ask for the presuppositional compromise that guarantees the viability of functioning and investment in the fields of teaching, research and transfer, and we ask for a political will that you put forward for university education, that you believe in innovation and that you encourage talent. And so, therefore, from Ciutadans, affirm and assume also as if it were ours, because this is the maximum sense of our university policy. Finally, a brief evaluation of the reviews. She was commenting on it. I think she said they tried to negotiate wreaths. I haven't been in these negotiations. I don't doubt, if she says so, that's the way it was, but anyway, what's clear is that if you see the groups that support the government, then don't trade to give the firm assumption that the universities are asking you, it's that there's no pact, there's no compromise because the universities are better funded; there I leave it. But I do want to go deeper into what our papers were, and they weren't accepted, and yesterday the Member explained the motive to me, and I said to her, "Well, I can hear it, and so I won't go deeper into it. Now, yes, for us, having more scholarships, which was the object of our research, we think it is important. They know perfectly well that from Ciutadans, and our leaders also in Madrid, therefore, insist very much on the issue of internationalization. For us it is a priority objective, as is the offer of studies in third languages. We believe that this is an object of better clarity that must be held by the university for university excellence, in order to be better among university graduates. Finally, we all want a better university, we want it more accessible, better funded, better results, more international, more competitive, undoubtedly with more scholarships, because it is more difficult for the social ascent of these families, but the responsibility, Members and Members, is practically exclusive of the Government, together with the university community. Therefore, since we often feel here about the parliamentary mandate, it is clear here: they help a better university. Catalan students cannot let the train of the future escape while you Romanesque with arms folded, disoriented and unaware of who are the needs of a public university of quality. Public university is the place to foster talent, equal opportunities, and we can't afford a government that doesn't know what to do to improve it. Thank you very much, Members; thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent cry is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.32.0	Bon dia, deputies and deputies. If we were in 2012, we would remember that it was full expression of the effects of the crisis, and practically the majority of governments around us, including the government of the better, the better neoliberal, and the later one of the better neoliberals, decided that they would apply yarn per turn the receipts that came from the troika. And they were receptions for us, but they weren't receptions; they were actually authentic, you know. For the public service, what was obviously proposed was to reduce the expression of the same service, and, for what it does to the university, not only to reduce presuppositionarily, but to generate an environment in which the input and development of more private activity in the members of our universities is practically mandatory, for the concrete that has developed since 2012. Mirin, the retaliation of public assumptions to public universities, has already been said in other interventions, meant passing approximately 1,000_millions to 700_millions. We're talking about a 30-per-cent reduction in the public budget for public universities. And from the hand of this, obviously, another type of funding was to be sought, and the first one they did is to make those who go to public universities or who want to go to public universities responsible for repayment. And we say, obviously, "repayment, increasing up to 66 per cent, according to some studies, the increase in university taxes, with which things covered not only an element of financing, but also an element of going expelling those who consider that they do not want to go to university, because their neoliberal conception does not make them necessary. Also what this meant for public universities is that in a direct way before looking for private finance, and this has to be done by incorporating private enterprises into the management not only of some complementary services of universities but also of the same teaching, and of the permanent use of our university campuses, but also in the financing of essential infrastructures of public universities; to search the financial sector in order to finance what is the minimum activity. Effects of all this, seven years later? Two thousand people have stayed out of college. You can give us, and now I'm going to the councilwoman anyway, concrete data on increment in a few years, but if we go to the study that tells us how many people have stayed out of college because of economics, because of class, then they talk to us about two thousand people. Also a progressive degradation of the conditions of the teaching and research staff, and third place, permanent instability in the management of universities. They tell us the rectors and rectors who spend more time trying to square their assumptions than thinking in scientific and academic terms, and this should not be the function of the rectors and rectors. You might think that this is the songs, as they sometimes say for Twitter, of the CUP, but, look, we're not talking now about the Popular Unity Candidacy, we're talking about the ACUP, the Catalan Association of Public Universities, and the letter they've made public forty-eight hours ago in a big communication medium, or a mass communication medium in this country, where they refer, with many other questions: access to higher education – difficulty – for another band that is also difficult for the university to generate critical people and cults, and what that means – and they're not only giving it directly – and difficulties to the university with the tool of progress, that essential element. We also wanted to make some contributions in the form of messages to this young man, and the contributions were to complement what is the content of the young man. The motion acts on two of the three major problems of the public university, which for one band is finance and for another band is the level of taxes, and therefore goes to reduce taxes. We must say that the question of tax reduction has already been approved at different times in this House, and that, fortunately, we will have a new time to approve it, but with binding force, which will be when we can discuss and vote for the ILP that has presented itself in this Parliament, and, therefore, always aggravate social movements, which are more advanced than the institution. But we wanted to complement the other pot, which is not about financing and is not about taxes, but rather about working conditions and conditions for the research staff; and basically the only one we are asking for is in two blocks: for one band, the compliment of legality, for the EPIF, and, for another band, also as to how we see that the figure of the beaks is being used in a fraudulent way, and then that it is a labor relationship, that is not to be covered fraudulently through an scholarship. He did not want to join, the proposed groups will explain it. We think it was a perfect complement to this third pot that's dancing at the public university. And last but not least, beyond the fact that we have tabled proposals that do not include them, we are clearly making a point that, with the three petitions that they are making to the House, our vote will be favourable.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.33.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. Next is the return of the deputy Antoni Castellà, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.34.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the shortcomings of the financing of the university system, and from our parliamentary group and from the government, we have become aware of this situation, but they are the shortcomings, at the time, of the financing system of the Government of Catalonia, and they are, at the time, the shortcomings of a situation of presuppositional prorogation. I am delighted to see how many Members will be willing to vote on the assumptions that are presented in this Parliament. So this is the first step we have to take. But in any of the cases, such as the fact that, moreover, the proposed Members have made a bit of a history, which is necessary: from where we come and where the university system is..., so it is obvious that we came from a situation of a very hard public financial crisis, but with a very hard legacy. When Congresswoman Romero spoke of prioritizing, I remember as if it were now that 2010 the priority of the Councillor of Economy, at that time Castells, was to stay with all the Romans of the research centers. You know perfectly well that romants in search centers, their fund-raising system, are essential. In fact, what the Generalitat was doing was to keep the money from research centres that had raised money in European terms. This was one of the hardest decisions, I believe, to the history of research centres; it was automatically reversed in 2011, when other complicated decisions were taken, but reversed. We brought an inheritance in terms of a deficit in the university system, because, as Mrs Romero said, yes, they offered almost 700 more_millions; executed, only 200; 140_millions of the better plan that never arrived. And you know what the consequence was? The universities, the university system, the universities have to be indebted; 500_millions of debt of the system in 2011. This was the starting point. And logically, between deficit levels and as public finances were left, decisions were taken, they were made adjustment decisions. 22_per_cent– because it is a 22_per_cent adjustment, which is very large – it was decided to prioritize not in terms of direct detail; it was impossible to respect the university system. And there it was, obviously, compensated for the public prices, for the reductions in the external payments – therefore, it took over the university community in its names – and for the efficiency of the system, with the creation of the Consortium of University Servants. That 2011 Catalan universities were starting to come out in the ranquings. It was said on the part of the opposition that this would not last two years. We're in 2019, and universities have outdone each other, and a lot of them, and yesterday the news of campuses is just one example. That's why? Basically, and above all, for the effort of the university system, for the effort of the university community, but also how the adjustment was made, and also for which programs were encouraged: the encouragement of ICREA; and you know perfectly well that the creation of the Serra Húnter programme in terms of the incorporation of internationalization, which has allowed more European foundations to the Catalan universities, has been strategic. Now, it's true, and we share it, that we are now at a time when we must try to recover a higher level of funding in our university system. And that's why he set up the national pact, because we also need to talk about modeling, because we did it with the research at the time, and that's what he gave away. You're talking about when, and we need to talk about when and how. You speak of dialog, and we agree; but when you speak of wreaths, we may also think that the concrete proposal of consensus at this time about 900_millions was 850. Engrunes, someone can say engrunes. But yesterday we made a concrete settlement of 850, and the answer is 'no'. Therefore, you probably have to prioritise the will of parliamentary marketing, rather than the will of dialog. And we wanted to make a landing at 1,300; in that 2022... we think we don't have the capacity to arrive at 2022, and we make a landing at 2024. And we can argue until what point we go in, 22 or 24, but we're here, huh? And from the interventions of the deputies it seemed as if there was no type of dialog. So yesterday the offer was concrete, and let's hear about the rest of the Members as well: 850_million versus 900 and 1,300 by 2024. The answer is: "No, not even talk about it, that's what we're talking about. That's not credible, therefore. The second issue that has been raised on the table in this motion and in what we can agree on in the background is the issue of public prices– public prices, not taxes; they are public prices, in the university system – the 30_per_cent reduction approved for this Parliament, which has not been completed on all trams, but we recognize in its parliament that it has been applied on tram 1 and tram 2. Yes, but I'm sorry, when we have a sincere dialogue like at least the one that is raised is: "Miri, mirin, honourable Members of Parliament who support the Government, have completed 1 and 2; they did not complete 3, 4 and 5, and I would say: "D'accord. But I accept that we have complied with the 1st and the 2nd. And the government's will is to progressively apply it to 3, 4 and 5. I would also ask for a little honesty in the reflections in his parliamentary office, because in Catalonia the public prices were raised by 66_per_cent: it is not true. 66_per_cent is on the highest income line. And I know, that's annoying. According to the following thing: "Deu_mil students have been expelled from the system. No, lying. And the deputy of the UPC said to me: "Studies, studies; well, quote my studies. Because I say: Uneix system, which is the public system; the deu_mil are exactly the low demographic, it's in terms of demographics. Therefore, proportionally we have more students than 2010 in terms of the country's demographics. And I do quote, huh? : Unix; they can come in and see it. We accept, because we do not want to accept, I believe, for the most part on the left, that in Catalonia we have a system of social pricing prices. There's no price. When it is said, "Stop 66..., what of them? Why, yes, I will also say: « Did the 66_per_cent push on tram 5, of high returns? Yeah. What is it that you don't explain? That in tram 1, which is the lowest, was reduced by 50_per_cent the pre-reduced students who are on tram 1 paid a 50_per_cent less than the previous year. And the contradiction at the end in ideological terms is that we have always understood that the classic discourse of the left is that indirect taxes, when they are linear, for everyone alike, are profoundly unfair: "This is what the Liberals do. And it turns out that the liberal supposeds, this government, say, "No, no, like this is an indirect tax, I do it for income streams: who has more money, who pays more; who has less money, who pays less. And he sees us left and says, "No, we want everyone to pay the same, the Pedralbes or the New Barris. This is the great contradiction the left has, I suppose, or simply that it bothered them very much that this government maintained the idea that indirect taxes cannot be linear, because they are unfair. And from here the government's will is to reduce it globally, but every one of them on its tram. The question we have to ask ourselves and to debate parliamentarians for all of us is, is it true that there is a majority of this Parliament that wants to put the price for everyone in line, regardless of their income? Really? To protect exactly which returns – to protect which returns? I'm done. Therefore, I believe, Mr President, that in the end what we would ask is the ability we must agree on the national pact, also on the model. Because money is a necessary condition, but not enough. And I've never heard in her parliament about which college model is research-oriented or not, what the governance model is, what the internationalization model is, what the academic load is, whether we're still betting on the tenure-track model, aggregate reader, or not, and whether we're able to make a reform that you're wearing here; whether it's AQU or if it's ANECA, that's why we never talk about it. And that's what we can discuss in the national pact. And this is actually the big challenge, because from this government and from the parliamentary group that I represent we are very clear that the condition necessary for this country to become part of the knowledge revolution is to have a knowledge generation. And we probably have a university system that places us in the most important knowledge pole in southern Europe. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.35.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of Congressman Lluís Font, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.36.0	Thank you, Vice President. Deputys and deputies, good morning. I would like to begin the intervention, as I usually do, thanking our interlocutors, Congresswoman Alicia Romero and Congressman Lucas Ferro, the opportunity to talk about the motion of the young man, although we have not reached a compromise, and I would like to highlight the whole debate that we are presenting. Because, in other areas, to defend our own positions the tendency is to highlight the negative elements of the corresponding sector; to subscribe to some ideas of change, I subscribe to criticism and to put the sector into evidence. And here, in change, it didn't happen, that. Criticism and demand for measures is based on the recognition of the quality of our education system, and it seems to me that this is a good principle to consecrate. And this quality we have because we have accumulated uncertainty and because of the efforts of professionals, teachers, researchers, who have been at their place at the moment of decision, and because of the efforts of families, who have increased – and the same students – their contribution. We share the philosophy of the young man. How could we not share it if you see texts from the same secretary we have elaborated and dialogued with the CUP, and the consensus of the university world? As Deputy Antoni Castellà pointed out, in any case, our discrepancy is about timing. It seems to us that the responsibility to govern is to know how to establish and take on what can be done at every moment. The Member of Parliament Romero stressed that it is mediocre not to know how to prioritize, and it is true; but I do allow myself to make a post: it is also important to know how to see the play in its conjunction, to take into account the combination of elements. In his own way, Congressman Lucas Ferro has done this: speaking of university, he has addressed the issue of non-university education, of children's education, he has come to say that all forms part of an integral package and, therefore, that they cannot take action in a sense that affects the other. The homeostasis of the joint is fundamental and a good to preserve. Therefore, we will abstain in these motions, not because we do not agree in the background with the objective they pursue, but because it seems to us that the terms that have been set are not acceptable. It is obvious, as we have sometimes said to the corresponding committee, that university is essential for a country, for our country, and that the Catalan public university has a funding deficit. That's obvious, of course, it's assumed and it's consensual. I, in a knowledge-based economy, the paper that this has developed is cabdal. L'Ortega y Gasset, in that classic book of the University Mission, already said that it is essential to know how to combine loyalty to inalienable functions, higher education, vocational training, research, with attentiveness to the demands of the professional sectors and, therefore, not to live on the margin, in a bowl, and also to respond to the training needs of those concerned. This virtuous circle is not easy to maintain, but it is the great goal of our university. I think it is remarkable that public policies must be based on evidence, and in this sense I would like to give some thought to an idea that has been set up in the imagination that establishes a cause-effect relationship; it is said, in one band, that the last few years students have brought more money to the university, in concrete 90_million more, and in the other band, there has been a decrease in the number of students enrolled in public universities, and apparently one thing has to do with the other. But I'd like to settle down in the analysis of these ciphers. One thing they give us is that the year 2011-2012 the average number of years dedicated to finishing the degree was 5.84 and the year 17-18 is 4.76. Let's imagine a college college that enrolls a hundred first-rate students. If these students, these students, finish the final course in four years, they will have a total of four hundred; if the finish in five years, five hundred; if the finish in six years, six hundred. The total number of students also has to see efficiency at the time of their studies. To put it another way: if we convert university students into full-time students to sixty year-old students, 2011-2012 would be 128,300, and 2017-18, 127,300; that is to say, what has happened is a phenomenon of eliminating dispersion and concentrating dedication. With this I would like to make it clear that the profile of our university students is changing. 2011-2012 entered it with different years – which may be the foreseeable age initially – seven_thousand; 2017-2018, divided_thousand. On the other hand, in the conjunct, counting the first course and counting the masters, thirty-two entered in 2011-2012 and thirty-three in 2017-2018. What's that supposed to mean? That the composition of our students, by age, by interest, by reason, has changed a lot. And that would be in the third element. For a society where talent and excellence, and at the same time equity, they are fundamental, to think of a clearly well-funded university, with all the support of the country, but also thought of training and training in the long term. In the background, it is the bet Estonia made after its independence: to foster the future of this country in long-term education, starting with early childhood education and ending at the end of our time, to say the least. Well, therefore, if we are to use evidence-based policies, we should analyse the data that the system brings to us and know how to set priorities from this analysis of surgery to fine-tune the concepts. We believe that in the framework of the National Knowledge Society Pact, where there are universities and sectors of the university community, it is time to establish the great lines, the great priorities of action. I would not want to finish the intervention without referring to a book by the former rector of the public university of the Basque Country Pello Salaburu – perhaps the one I know. In a book that already has more than two years, the university at the crossroads, talked about the importance of funding, of continuing to support the university, but it brought three more elements that I think, thinking about the future and the quality, we should always keep to the hearing. The first is to improve relations, to intensify them, between the university and the society's joint venture – the university forms part of society, but it is not a differentiated vector – and therefore, as to achieve a symbiosis, that the society's joint venture is made because of the importance that the university has as a institution, and the great social return in the form of the formation of its students, but also of progress to the country, which means, and therefore, that the university does not have to fight against certain stereotypes, but that naturally produces this flow. Second place, and very important, to counter, to control, to reduce bureaucracy. At the time, he already pointed out that the Bolonya system had great advantages in terms of university pedagogy, but that surely this quality control consists of accumulating relevant data – or not so relevant – on the activity that would generate more time devoted to reporting and, therefore, to increasing bureaucracy. I modestly believe that this is one of the great problems we have and that they do not rely, in this case, strictly on financing. And third place, make college more flexible. He says in the book an interesting thing: that diversity does not equal flexibility. This reminds me of a debate that we had with Congressman Riera about education when he said: "In the place of flexibility, innovation; that diversity is not a guarantee of innovation. So it seems to me that the thesis can be a little similar. I mean, it's not enough to be different to guarantee flexibility. Flexibility demands constant labor in order to know how to adapt to that virtuoso circle that they had previously pointed out. Well, and finally I'd like to have an emotional record for the prisoners and the prisoners, which we have again in Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.37.0	Thank you, Mr. Font. Next, to fix his position, the deputy Santi Rodríguez of the Subgroup of the People's Party has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.38.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my intervention with a record, with a record for the people of the Ebre River who are seeing the territory being burned. [[Greetings.]] And with the words of there, with the words of there for all those people who are working in the territory, from the Fire Extinguishing Service, from Civil Protection, Security Cossos, Mossos, Military Emergencies Unit and Air Force, who are working to try to extinguish this disastrous fire. Beyond the different interventions, in my head I changed the philosophy of intervention that I wanted to make in relation to this proposal on universities; but some reflections that we can share, and some – I will try – of innovative – I already know that it is difficult – not as much as yogurts, but some innovative one we will try to contribute. Today we are talking about universities, but a few months ago we were talking about doctors, primary care, waiting lists, teachers, high school, schools, bombers, moves, etc. I mean, we don't just have a problem with universities, we have a set of problems. And surely this set of problems have a common ground. And now I'm going to focus on universities, but surely, analyzing it with a little more detail than time does, obviously, we can see that the problem as it is exactly the same that leads us to be talking today about the need to improve university funding. First of all, why are we doing this today and why are we in college? So I think it was Mrs Romero, it was also Mr Castellà..., that I don't know if I've lost anything and you've changed from a parliamentary group, because you were talking about the left as if you were a third person and you were speaking on behalf of the Republican Left, which is certainly also part of the same government. [[applause]] I don't know if I've lost anything... Actually, there was a plan of improvement in university funding in 2007-2010, and Mr. Castellà was giving the figures – I have them different – from the Union of Accounts. Of the best promise, 269 million euros remained to be invested, but that was not the problem. The problem was that at that time for that government surely..., I don't know whether it was mediocre or not – or I do know it; I prefer not to say it – but surely everything was priority, because they ended 2010..., res, with a small deficit of 8,352_million euros. I'm saying this because, of course, later on they have to apply retail, yes, of course, because we don't have the machine to make money, the money won't stretch. And the money that's spent the most has to be paid. And then up there a moment that needs to be detailed and that needs to be worked out for society. And, indeed, these efforts were demanded of society. But once they paid off some debts and once they restored the tickets, they had to restore the conditions they had previously. And that's what the government didn't do. But the government didn't do it when? Now? No, no, Deien: "It's that from 2012 the flaps have not reversed. No, it's the governments that have been in Catalonia since 2012 – oh chance! , when the process begins, 2012 –..., of seven possible assumptions – of seven possible assumptions – in four exercises there have been no assumptions. And the problem is not how many Members are willing to vote on assumptions; the problem is how many advisers are willing to vote on assumptions! Because, if you want to know how many Members will vote on the assumptions, approve them at the Executive Board and bring them to Parliament, and then we will count. Because, while the government does not approve of the assumptions, it will not be possible to know whether there are any Members willing to vote on them or not. And this is the great drama of college. Yes – yes. But also of salvation, also of teaching, of all aspects, of all. This is the great drama. There have been governments who have preferred not to make assumptions. I, from seven exercises, four without assumptions. And this way, listen to me, so you can't reverse the adjustments, you can't correct the taxes, the public prices – we understand perfectly –, that you have to increase to fill the lack of funding by the Government of the Generality. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And this has to be changed, this has to be understood. And that's why our group...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.39.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.40.0	...will support these two motions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.41.0	Thank you. Thank you, Congressman. Next, and in order to position herself on the papers presented, the Member of Parliament, Alicia Romero, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.42.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, I also wanted from our group, so show solidarity with the lives of the Ribera d'Ebre, Garrigues and Segria, which are being painted these past few hours a fire that already destroys four thousand hectares, which are many, from our territory, and also thanks to the public servants who are working and fighting against this drama. I wanted to thank..., it is true that today the Rectors have not been able to come, that they have a few months with graduations and other things, but here is Josep Maria Vilalta, who is the secretary general of the Catalan Association of Public Universities, and I would like to thank him that he has also come to listen to all our debate. I would also like to thank Citizens and the CUP for all, the effort they have made to present papers, which we have told them are uncertain, but we have wanted to perhaps in a very pure way, so to keep these three elements that seem to be key to us after being able to apply the EPIF or to work for the internationalization and excellence of our universities. Miri – some things that have been said – Mr. Castellà, I went to look at the 2010 and 2011 Presuppositional Execution of the Department of Universities: the 2010 execution was 88_per_cent, and 2011, 99,5_per_cent; therefore, their numbers do not match. I've been looking right now, huh? , data from the website of the Generalitat. Listen, there was-there was a reality, which is that it doubled the college assumption from 2007 to 2010, and that was good news and a good job that was done from the universities, and the reality is that 2012 was detailed and not reversed, despite the fact that the situation has changed. And I gave him the data from which was the execution of direct and indirect taxes, which we have passed from 2016 to 2018, I say: direct, from 9,000_million to 10,500, and indirect, from 10,000 to 12,000. This is an increase in tax receipts that should have been reflected in a better amount of university funding. Miri, 850_millions is short, because it would only allow us to increase the salary slope since 2016, but nothing for investments, nothing for innovation or research, for university policy... So they're wreaths? No, it's just that they have to pay the sub-pendents since 2016 and we need to do more college politics. That's why you see her up, and that's why we're making this proposal today, which, if approved, I'd like the government to apply it, and, as a minimum, if not, that we can agree with the rectors on a reasonable calendar, which you allow...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.43.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.44.0	...to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.45.0	Thank you. Next, and also to stand up for the papers presented, has the word the other group proposing, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.46.0	Thank you very much. First, to apologize to both CUP and Ciutadan's companies: I believe that the papers were relevant; it is true that we may have maintained an excessive zeal to maintain those complaints that we considered to be central to public universities, but we believe that there is room to talk about the application of the EPIF and that there is room to talk about the internationalization of public universities. But I go straight to Mr. Castellà. Says: "We proposed to you yesterday 850_millions and you told us neither to talk about it nor to talk about it, which demonstrates the nullity of the dialogue and the parliamentary position you have here. Home, bearing in mind that I had to go to presupposition negotiations with your government, and that from the first proposal until the last one you didn't move a euro, while we had to hold on to press conferences lying publicly, I think it's a shame that you give us presupposition dialect lessons. Then, are you against it being paid progressively as income to enter college? Yeah. And more than a government that constantly blocks tax reform in this country because it pays the most. Because if we pose this barrier, we don't pay direct taxes, but on access to universal services, we're blocking access to the universal services to which you least have access. And you wouldn't defend it or primary education, or secondary education, or battling, and so what we're asking is that you don't defend it in university public education. And lastly, he said: "No access has fallen..., a report that shows that access has fallen... Jo, miri, the one I found like this, in two minutes..., the reference to the article by Mrs. Vera Sacristán, which explains a very simple thing: that 2011 the percentage of students in public universities in relation to the population of divided years was 48,2_per_cent, and enguany, 43,5_per_cent, five points of download, and that 2011 was the fifth community of the entire State in access to public universities and today is the ninth, under the state media. I think denying the major is irresponsible at these heights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.47.0	Thank you. Once the debate is over, we'll go to the polls. In the first place we will vote for the motion following the question to the Government about universities and then we will vote for the motion following the question to the Government about the situation of public universities. Let us therefore proceed first to vote on the first of the motions tabled. Is there a separate motion for a vote? I understand you don't? [[Pause.]] We shall therefore begin the vote. The vote begins. The motion following the question to the Government on universities, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, was approved by 65 votes in favour, against and 59 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] And we're voting, now, the second of the motions. The vote begins. The motion following the question to the Government on the situation of public universities, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has been approved by 65 votes in favour, against and 59 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into industry and investment]] [[302-0122/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The next point is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into industry and investment, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose it, has the word Mr Santi Rodriguez. When he wants to. [[Widow's remorse.]] A_second, deputy, that the deputies and the deputies have just come out quickly and quietly from the hemisphere. [[Pause.]] When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.48.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, two weeks ago we asked the Business Councillor about industry and investment. The fundamental motivation is the importance that the industrial sector has in the context of the Catalan economy, in many respects, for the high added value it has, for the quality of the occupation it offers and also for the import, for its pes relative to the economic growth of Catalonia, which at these times is around 19_percent of GDP in the industrial sector. But we say we're worried about some weak people in the sector. And we need to put the emphasis on the fact that we do not pretend to be alarmists, we do not want to be alarmists, we want to be realists and we want to detect those weakened who, from our point of view, point out that there are elements that should be corrected in order to ensure that, in the future, we move or move the industrial sector forward and does so forcefully. These weak ones, we can just... quote some of them. I was referring earlier to the pes de l'industrie in the Catalan economy; in 2017 it was concretely 19.2_per_cent and in 2018, 18.9_per_cent, it is to say that while the economy grows the pes de l'industrie in the economy is significantly reduced, isn't it? And this is an element that concerns us. We are also concerned – as we knew the same day we asked the question – that exports, during the year 2018, for the first time since 2011, had suffered a setback of the 1.1_per_cent; therefore, as a symptom, an element that concerns us. Industrial production, which falls by 3.4_per_cent. Or the industrial reversal, which is also in Catalonia stagnant in 0.4_per_cent, while, for example, in Spain's conjunction, it grows in 10.8_per_cent. And all this, in the end, also translates into a loss of jobs, a loss of this year in relation to the previous; it is said, about fifteen_ thousand jobs have been lost respect the time of maximum occupation of the industrial sector, which was produced during the year 2018. And, in this sense, the experts point to two fundamental origins: one, European and one, therefore, indigenous. And they say this in no way: political tension does not favour policies of economic growth, it does not favour policies of investment neither in the industrial sector nor, surely, in other sectors. And that's why we wanted to raise some aspects, some of them, because I think that basically the tool to deal with these weakened ones we have, the tool we have, which is the sectoral concertation, which is the Industry Pact. I believe that it is a valid force document, with a staple of actions also valid force, that must allow to correct those weakened that has the industrial model and that shows at this time the industrial model. Then, if we already have the tool, why do we ask? So why do we miss what's handy to make sure the tool works: presuppost. And a while ago we talked about it. We lack that which is fundamental, that there is a premise that allows us to ensure that all the commitments, of the government, of course..., but of all the sectors gathered in this pact for the industry, can be fulfilled. And, therefore, we miss, I insist, the phone book. In the motion it is spoken synthetically, there are elements of financing, innovation, digital transformation, connectivity of industrial policies, training, special attention to the automotive sector, which occupies a large number of very important people, and also search infrastructures, at the first point, and they will allow me to say: « Escotin, the Parliament, solemnly, congratulates Barcelona Supercomputing Center for having achieved the European Union's investment in the new supercomputer. And, finally, we also address political tensions in one aspect in the movement, and in another that we have incorporated the fruit of one thought. One, abandon the decisions and abandon the speeches that generate insecurity... [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] They generate division, but they also generate insecurity. I, second, fruit of a thought...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.49.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.50.0	... – I finish –, the result of a campaign by Ciutadans: we take advantage of the occasion to firmly reject the boycott policies of the National Assembly of Catalonia against Catalan companies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.51.0	Congressman!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.52.0	Yesterday, the councillor did so; today, we have the opportunity to do so in the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.53.0	Thank you. The next group to speak is the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, to defend the papers presented. And it has the word, therefore, Mrs. Alicia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.54.0	Thank you, President. Well, good morning. We are debating this motion on industrial policy. It's true that it's timely, because industry... Catalonia has to be industrial or it won't be. That's what I've said many times. And it's true that as much as we talk about it, so it's worth repeating ourselves in the import of industry to our country, isn't it? I think it's a young man that we've been trying to improve with some ideas, that I'm going to thank Mr. Rodriguez for accepting us, some of whom have been trading, and I think they're filling out a little more of the young man they were presenting to us. Our exams are coming up on the next line. When we talk about the National Pact for Industry, which we, in some way, from outside, because we were not able to participate directly in its content..., we have always asked that it be transparent, in the sense that we know who the actions are and who the resources and indicators are for each of the actions. The other day we had, therefore, the appearance of the Director General of Industry and we let him know, therefore, that, in some way, the general analyses and the most general figures on the actions do not serve us; we want to know in detail who are the resources dedicated to each action. Because what we wouldn't like to see happened is that ultimately the pact included a sum of the actions they were already doing, and, therefore, so... well, everything packed with a lace is very good... but what we believe and believe in at the time is that this pact had to incorporate more resources, obviously, so, for industry, right? , from the point of view of digitization and many other elements, from the intelligent infrastructures, but also the physical ones, because, in the end, the conditions of many types are the ones that have to favor a better industrial policy. And you don't just have to see Mrs. Chacon's department, but you have to see many other departments, do you? ; very important, that of Digital Policies, also that of infrastructures, or Territori. And, therefore, here, we, therefore, have always believed that this pact must be more transparent, it must establish well who are the actions, what resources we are giving, to see if they are finally adding more than there were, because if we annually give EUR 20 million to Eurecat, then, these already have them, it was already an agreement that was made in this Parliament, ambitions, to enhance the transfer of knowledge to our minds; if we really want to push this, more so, at a time when the digitization of businesses is so key for its competitiveness, we need to put more resources; if we leave the 20, then well, it was, in any case, a tape that we have achieved some time ago. One of our papers was on this line. The other is the theme Eurecat. We've made a call to Eurecat, because it's true that one of the challenges that industry has at this time is digitization; Eurecat is the technology center that added the different technology centers that existed for the country, to try to have more muscle and be able to rationalize and generate also more knowledge ambition in Catalan companies. We have always been critical, we are always critical with Eurecat; we believe that it could be giving much more results than it does. Actually, we didn't talk to the councilwoman. We got Eurecat's president compared to the committee. And we believe that here there are some changes that allow us to be a lever, that Eurecat is a lever of change to our peppers. That's why we wanted to incorporate it expressly, isn't it? The digital transformation of the sector must be encouraged with the support of Eurecat, which is really what it should achieve, to facilitate that many of the peppers do this process of digital transformation, from trade to industry, but industry is very important above all for what it does to smaller companies. We have also made a note of the connectivity of industrial policies, because this is a subject, too, that we have not talked much with Councillor Puignero; first, because at these times there are many industrial policies, in Catalonia, that have no connection, we no longer ask for 5G, but they have no connection; there are many municipalities, in Catalonia, even though they do not have regional capitals. And, therefore, we need to make an effort on this. If we are to be a competitive territory, we must have intelligent infrastructure at the disposal of citizens and businesses, and it is key for industry. When someone comes to invest in a territory, among other things, they will look at physical infrastructures and intelligentsia; if we don't have them, then that will make it difficult. And that means the Mediterranean Corridor, it means 5G and it means connectivity and many things, right? But at this point we also wanted to make an impact, because it seems to us to be a very important element. Therefore, we will support all the proposals made by the People's Party and some that have been accepted. We believe that it is important that, as we are talking more about industry, we try to make as many proposals as possible, because we really give this impetus to industry that needs, above all, transformation, with the challenges it has, therefore, linked to energy, digitisation and many other aspects. I, therefore, shall vote in favour. And let's hope, then, that we can approve this motion and continue to give this momentum that we all share that the sector needs to be every time more competitive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr Antonio Espinosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.56.0	Thank you, President. Madam Counsellor, Members of Parliament, very good morning. The motion before us today allows us and at the same time obliges us to make an analysis of the current situation of industry in Catalonia and to propose measures for its improvement. For the analysis, we are helped by successive reports which show us, both of them, that industrial fabric is still very important. That's..., there's no doubt about it. But those reports also tell us – and therefore it is undeniable – that the industry in Catalonia is losing weight and has been doing so since 2000; in 2000, the gross value added of the industry was 26.9_per_cent of the total and, with 2018 data, we are at 20.69. Other indicators, precisely from the Institute of Statistics of Catalonia, give us clear signs of concern. And these are the ones I'm going to show you now. The industrial output index dropped by 3.7_per_cent in April, and fell all year round. Investment in the automotive industry has fallen by 10_per_cent in what we have been doing for the year. If we look at exports, which have had a positive trajectory for a long time, we are seeing that they have also declined during this year, and specifically in March they have fallen by 4.5_per_cent. If we continue with the indicators, we note that the population employed in the industry, taking into account the total employed population, has fallen by 0.5_per_cent. But it is not only the indicators that show us these weaknesses. At the end of May, the president of the Economic Circle warned of the loss of economic power in Catalonia and asked the government, precisely, to give priority to day-to-day management. We also have a report from the Catalonian Labour, Economic and Social Council, CTESC, which dismantles the topic of the parties and the separatist government that the economy in Catalonia is going great, that there is no reason to worry. Look, Members, in this report, what shows us is that productivity in Catalonia is below the EU average and that it has only grown 0.3 since 2000 – 0.3 since 2000! The report reveals to us that of the OECD economies, Catalonia is the fourth where GDP per capita has grown the least. In 1999, Catalonia's GDP was equivalent to 99 per cent of the euro area average. Well, now that's down to 95.2. The report also highlights the need for companies to become larger because the loss of competitiveness is beginning to cause concern. The report tells us, I don't. In view of this situation, it is clear that there is no reason for such complacency as we have noted in the Government. The Pact for Industry needs to be done and strengthened and developed, and to do so fully, not in percentages that do not even meet the annualized expectations of such compliance. It is therefore clear that, on the basis of all this information, the Government knows, knows of these shortcomings, knows of these weaknesses, but why do they not really drive the necessary policies? Because we have a government..., because we do not have a government, rather, because we actually have a disgovernment that is paralyzed by the separatist process and is unable to think in the medium and long term. And it's that even it's not just paralyzed, it's that it's going in the opposite direction. What has the Government of the Generalitat done in response to a demand, for example, to increase dimensions? To support – to support –, to support that at the moment..., the Chamber of Commerce has been colonized by the separatism of the ANC, and at the moment it turns out that the Chamber is controlled by thirty-one companies. Well, except for one, the remaining 30 employ only 240 workers and charge only EUR 46_million. But not content with that, separatism, through the ANC, and also with the implicit support of the Government of Catalonia, has initiated an indecent campaign of boycott and signaling of companies that do not politically position themselves in favor of independence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.57.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.58.0	... a campaign – I finish, Mr President, please leave me a second – of black lists that will affect economic activity, will scare even more companies that have already left, will drive away the arrival of new companies, will harm job creation and put at risk...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.59.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.60.0	...thousands of jobs in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.61.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lluïsa Llop has the word now. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.62.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, Catalonia has emerged from the crisis with more solid foundations: we have entered with an economy that is overly dependent on construction and tourism and we have not exited with a more diversified economy, where industry plays a leading role. While 2009 the pes de la industria in Catalunya was at a minimum of 18.5_per_cent, 2017 reached 21.4. The Catalan industry has sustained a continuous growth of the hardest years of the economic crisis. Its added value grew by 2.8_per_cent in 2004, by 5.9 in 2015, by 5 in 2016, by 4.9 in 2017; a growth, therefore, over what happened in the euro area and what happened in the conjunct of the Spanish State. This dynamism of the Catalan industry also reflected in the growth of the industrial production index, which has steadily increased since 2013, from 1_percent to 3.7_percent in 2017, a dynamism based on innovation and added value. In Catalonia, employment in the high and medium-high technology industry represents the 7_per_cent of occupation, over countries with Italy or France. It is in this context that we can place a certain attenuation in industrial growth. The year-to-year variation in the industrial output index decreased by 0.8_per_cent in 2018, but this attenuation is surely related to the downward revision of expectations that the International Monetary Fund has made in detecting the economic deceleration samples, and that it has made that above all impact to Catalonia at the level of the export activity. From the Republic Group we are convinced that it is necessary to consolidate the industrial model that emerges from the recovery with an active industrial policy, and that this already exists, as other groups have recognized, an agreement signed, the result of the social concertation, of the concertation with the entities, with the unions and the most representative business federations, which was signed in 2017 and which reduces a total of measures, a comprehensive of important measures to bring this Catalan economy forward, and which, moreover, with a few months ago, has a presuppositionary compliment, in its agreement, of 87_per_cent, that, despite having had to suffer in the two years of application the fact that the suspension of autonomy has obviously occurred, this National Pact for Industry has a presuppositionary compliment of 87_per_cent. Therefore, we understand that it is a pact, obviously, solid. In any case, we obviously believe that there are aspects to be improved and, therefore, before concrete points of the motion, where constructive proposals can be made, we will find them. We therefore share aspects such as the importance of the digital transformation of industry to our country. So... this is already marked as a priority of this national pact. And we understand that you also have to work with the National Pact for Digital Society and SmartCAT Strategy. We share in the same way the need, also reflected in this National Pact for Industry, in the field of education and training, to enable and enhance, through continuous initial occupational training, the adaptation of workers to technological change and to the new forms of production, each time more digitalized. And what about supporting the ICF, the financing actions of process innovation and industry products? , when the CFI, certainly, except in some concrete, sectorial lines of credit, has almost always devoted the totality of its products and of the Avalis to meeting the needs of the industrial enterprises of this country. In other aspects of the motion, unfortunately, we cannot give support, as we are asking for amendments to this National Pact for Industry, the National Pact for Industry, where, in its isolation, of course, political groups did participate and they were given the option of being able to make statements. But we understand this pact as a whole; this pact is formed by a set of measures and, if we can some or give them priority over some others, it will not collect this globality that seems essential to us in order to bring our country's industrial policy forward. And we can't, in the end, certainly agree with other aspects, and in fact we don't share people who in Catalonia are boycotted for ideological reasons at the head of the company. In any case, if they want to talk about boycotting Catalan companies and their workers, ask the Spanish head of state, ask the head of the Spanish government, ask them what they do during the months of September and October 2017 when they were calling, to the best of their minds, Catalan companies to tell them that they are leaving Catalonia, when they withdraw the funds from Catalonia's financial companies to generate a problem. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] So, if anyone...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.63.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.64.0	... – I just went on, president – if someone boycotts for ideological reasons, don't search Catalonia; look for it in other places. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.65.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.66.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillors, Members, Members, first of all, and on behalf of our parliamentary group, we would like to show solidarity with all the people of the Lands of Ebro and some neighbouring municipalities of Lleida, who are living these tragic moments with the fire; also with all the staff deployed, firefighters from all the parks of Catalonia, and with all the people of the Consellaria d'Interior, who are supporting it. That said, Mr. Santiago Rodríguez, as always, I just wanted to start by saying that you were pleasantly surprised at the way you expressed in this young man, the way and ways of presenting..., about industry and investment, as you always do and with the way we are used to. But, mirin, we don't get so far when President Rajoy, at an information breakfast with Europa Press, talked about that "independence had gripped the Catalan economy, and for that reason it had to be deployed on 155, "to protect Catalonia from the same Catalans; or the same president and the People's Group, which did not take three days to pull out the decree of escape from the workers after October 1, which certainly the PSOE, may now be able to remanage, to pull back or to make effective industrial policies with Catalonia. In fact, it has been very good, but I also remind you that you have accepted all the items except those that we have entered the Republic Group and ourselves. But, said that, we will continue with this good, above all because we must remember that Catalonia is one of the few regions that complement the European Union's goal of making industry account for 20 % of GDP by year 2020. The fish of the industrial sector is already 22,1_per_cent, while Spain is 17_per_cent. Therefore, without any doubt, it is clear that the work that has been done by the Government – this government that does not work, will advise –, the work that has been done and the work that has been done with the National Pact for Industry, which was already born in the past legislature, have guided in effective industrial policies, even being from the preuaded areas of southern Europe to attract investments. To be that it is a government that does not rule, so they have been very able to set up a framework for transformation with this new industrial model, which obviously sees very quickly and generates constant changes for us. But let's get to the point, with the same cordiality, Mr. Rodriguez. Of course, we are also satisfied with the investment in the supercomputer, in MareNostrum 5, which is an important one in Barcelona, with an investment of 223_million euros, half of which come from Europe; therefore, it is an important bet that places us also as a first-class technology centre. As for the first point b, we will never agree on the data. We've seen it in the speech of the Spiny MP... we'll never get laid. So, I'm not going in, I'm not going in to discuss data, because we'll never agree. Miri, I refer to concrete facts, facts of the Department of Economics, report of the first quarter of 2019: « The Catalan economy grows an annual 2_per_cent in the first quarter. In quarterly terms, Catalan GDP is up 0.6 per cent; job creation is maintained with significant growth, and the service and construction sector maintains a solid growth, and industry slows down the rate of decline. Still more: « Catalonia stands at €704.5 million in foreign investment. HP opens the world's largest industrial 3D center in Catalonia, in Sant Cugat. Henkel invests 35_million euros in his new European hub in Montornès del Vallès, and we can continue. Something has to do with all this. But, look, we agree with all the points that you referred to... regarding the Eurecat, obviously, we bet on technology transfer, as it couldn't be in any other way. We agree with the impulse in training, a basic need to push through all this industrial change, automotive, ICF paper, obviously... And we're not going to go into the whole boycott campaign thing that you're bringing us to the third point. I refer to the words of the councillor yesterday, but above all I refer to the fact of the councillor and the fact of the councillor, who does the work to be done. Miri, despite the irresponsibility of some of the speeches that feel alarmed in the Catalan industry, the industry is strong. Obviously there is room for improvement; we are in a period of important changes, the contributions must be positive on the part of all, but we are well situated, and here always – always – they will find us. And finally I want to set a record for political prisoners who are in Catalonia these days, but there's not enough for us: what we want is for them to come home. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.67.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and to fix his position, he has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podem, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.68.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, I see that we all agree, for the speeches I am listening to, that industrial policy across the country is a strategic policy. That there is no benefit without industrial policy and that, moreover, it determines our role in Europe today. But sometimes it seems like talking about industrial policy is very old, it's talking about industrial policy in the 20th century and we think it's exactly the opposite; it's talking about how we build a new industrial model, which isn't that of the past century, but that we're trying to be an economy that produced something else that you serve. And so, as an industrial policy of the 21st century, which leads the bet to be an economy of high added value, which also leads the bet to build an industrial model on a transition..., on an energy transition model and which leads the bet because this industrial production sector is the fundamental pillar of our welfare society, and of a quality work model. And the truth is that the evolution of the industrial sector at home and home in the State is truly dramatic. Since the Transition, we have lost a third of the jobs in the industry; a 30_per_cent. If in the 1980s, the industry represented 40_percent of the jobs in Catalonia, today it represents just over 18_percent. And it's been a long process. A first stage – and a recent Movement of the Socialist Party commented – marked during the Transition for Conversion Policies: the Spain of Solchaga, which dismantled the fabric of our country's product; bad public enterprises and put the welfare state on a diet. There probably died the project of social democracy of the 20th century in our country; of a welfare state, supported by a strong production system, which generated conditions to benefit materials throughout the city, and began there the stage of deregulation and the unprotection of our city. But also a second stage: that of the People's Party, which is the party that presents this young man to us today. From that of the PP of Aznar and Rodrigo Rato; the stage of privatizations, the Law of soil and the promotion of public work. That it was nothing other than the systemic abandonment of our product fabric, talking about an economic miracle that consisted of transforming us into an economy of services that surfed a housing and public work cylinder. And from there to here. I believe that we are at a time when, as Solchaga said in the 1980s, we have made our mantra that the best industrial policy... is the industrial policy that does not exist. Without betting from top Public administration for a strong product model; without betting firmly for research, development and innovation, and without betting to build an energetic model of the future. And today, it seems that it is planning a new recession on Europe, that is to say that we have a productive economy, some public administrations and some public services that are weaker than it has been years to resist a new recession. Also in productive and also in industrial. And that means we need to make a country bet to reinforce three basic elements of our society, which are the welfare state, the added value product texture and energy transition. And in these points we agree practically fully with the People's Party's motion, except in some points that we consider to have to do with other questions. Calen presuppositions, first; yes, calen presuppositions, but we would say more: calen presuppositions expansius. There are assumptions that tank with a decade of austerity, that it does not only offend the welfare and equality of our home, but that it also offends the growth produced in our home. Second, I call the National Pact for Industry a strategic bet of a country. And we fully share many of the proposals that you make, but we insist: that it is not a leap of proposals, but that it is a strategy that is compromised and sustained over time. And to do so, we believe that there are two fundamental things to bet on: that it is an economy of high value added and not an economy of service; and that is whether or not it is for research and development policies as well. And I would say that we are going badly; we are in the middle of the European media and returning to research and development. And we've lost 30 percent of our investment in research and development in just two years. We have gone from competing in innovation with France and Germany, to competing in innovation [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and with this I finish, President – with the European periphery. And lastly, we need to lead an energy transition model that can sustain a new industrial product model. They're not going to make it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.69.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.70.0	I'm done with this: we're not going to complete the 2020 targets. Probably 2030s, either, if we follow that. And we believe that it must be a foundational pillar of the new productive economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.72.0	President, to speak from the Escó. For us, it's essential to talk about industry. But it's hard to talk about industry and not talk about two questions: the first is the historical role that in the next thirty years – in fact more than thirty years – the European Union has played. He has assigned us an absolutely peripheral industrial model, with four monocultures: construction, tourism, agri-food, and automotive. And that, of course, absolutely conditions our industrial activity. The second, of which we should speak much more deeply: the need for a law of governance of industrial policies, or a specific regulation of the soil, which we already have, that you have the guarantee that our industrial policies are not the object of speculation, of the speculative economy. I therefore have no problem with replacing the productive economy with the speculative economy. And the last question: we're talking a lot about industry fallout data – which I don't think anyone is arguing about – but maybe we should go look more there, with what it means. Because it's for the Catalan countries, it's for the Spanish State, and it seems to be already beginning to be for the good part of southern Europe. And it is not only a matter of "exports have fallen, but of going to see why exports are running and, therefore, that there is a fall in domestic demand, both in the Spanish State and in the Catalan Countries, as in the good part of southern Europe, that is perhaps the foreground of an initiative of a similar economic crisis. And start doing that thought. On the concrete motion, or the agreements that are planted: we, in most agreements, will abstain. It is obvious that between the CUP and the People's Party, therefore, there is a very different industrial model. And from here, our abstention. We will also vote in favour of a concrete point, which is what refers to the connectivity of industrial polygons or 5G. And we're also going to vote against a point, which is the third, because we've done an empirical exercise, which is going to see what this is about setting up the ANC. We have entered its web page and we obviously see what it is, that it is a search engine of entrepreneurs who are in favour of the right of self-determination and, moreover, the element that are the same companies that are registered. Therefore, it is not a construction by the ANC. To us, this seems absolutely legitimate to us. Actually, there's no element that you're a boycott. But we also argue that if, at a concrete moment, there are those who, from civil society, planted the boycott as an element of political action, we would not propose to vote against it. Obviously, we could be in favour of it if we agreed on those political elements that determine the boycott.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.73.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.74.0	Thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]] Thank you also to the public to cheer us up. [[The remorse of the voice persists. Greetings.]] In relation to the papers, we have accepted all the papers submitted by the Ciutadan Group and the Socialist Group. One of those that presented each of the groups we negotiated because we could give cabuda to everything. We did not accept the Republican Left and the Junts for Catalonia, because basically what I expected was to eliminate a..., to what experts say is that it is the origin of the weakened industrial system: that it is precisely political tensions. Therefore, the only one they do, you say: "No, this political tension does not affect them. Now, let me ask them. [[remorse of the voice]] You know, rhetorically...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.75.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.76.0	...if everything you say here to the Faristol, if you really believe it. Because I can hear you coming here to the Faristol and saying, "Listen to me, the problem is the people who did the trick because they started to march; the problem is repression; the problem is I don't know what... I ask them, rhetorically, eh? : do you really think so? Because if they think so, they have a problem. I understand you're saying that. Now that they believe it... man, it's worrying. The other element: man, put us in agreement about the data or not. But if we have the idea. Miri, if you'd like, Mrs. Pallarès, I'll leave the job data to the industry, from the year 2011, all of them. I'll see: if it's very simple..., I mean, I... Miri, third quarter of 2018: 635,000 occupied. First quarter of 2019: 620,000 occupied. 15,000 jobs have been lost in the industrial sector. They must be ours anyway, but I'm told the Idescat. The inversion or the inversions... – I've brought the iPad, because I'm already tired of carrying it on paper – if you..., the government counts as inversion, the year 2017 [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] Tarragona's Hard Rock, which still haven't bought the land, which they're now seeing if it's paid for by the Generality..., and you're already looking at it as a reversal of 2017! With three thousand jobs created!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.77.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.78.0	What data do you want them to look at us, what do you want us to believe? Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.79.0	Thank you, Congressman. I called for a vote. [[Widow's remorse. Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, say, Mrs Segovia, separate vote? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.80.0	Separate vote from point 2.g and point 3, which could be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.81.0	All right. Any more separate voting petitions? [[Vidal Aragonese Chicharro asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Aragonese...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.82.0	Separate vote on point 2.ca and point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.83.0	Okay. Any more? [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.84.0	President, I think there's a little disagreement with many of the points raised, probably... vote separate from each point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.85.0	Of all the points? [[Widow's remorse.]] I understand you're asking for points and subpoints. There's some group that asked for the subpoints, so, also separately, huh? All right, then, we'll vote for all the points and sub-points of this motion separately. Let's start by voting point 1.a. The vote begins. Point 1.a_has been approved by 122 votes in favour, against, 4 abstentions and 1 Member present who has not voted. Let's just move on to vote point 1.b. The vote begins. The 1.b_point was approved by 61 votes in favour, against and 66 abstentions. We're voting 2nd point now. The vote begins. Point 2.a_has been rejected by 61 votes to 62, with 4 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.b. The vote begins. The 2.b_point was approved by 61 votes to 66 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 2.c. The vote begins. The 2.c_point was approved by 122 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 2.c bis – point 2.c bis. The vote begins. Point 2.c bis was approved by 65 votes to 62, with no abstentions. We're voting now for point 2.d. The vote begins. The 2.d_point was approved by 122 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 2.e. The vote begins. Point 2.e_has been approved by 123 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 2.f. The vote begins. The 2.f_point was approved by 123 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 2.g. The vote begins. The 2.g_point was approved by 54 votes in favour, against and 72 abstentions. And finally we vote on the third point of this motion. The vote begins. The third and last point of this motion was rejected by 54 votes in favour, 66 against and 7 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into inclusive school]] [[302-00117/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The next point is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the inclusive school, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. Introduce the motion, on behalf of the proposed parliamentary group, Mrs Esther Niubó. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.86.0	Well, then, good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, children and people of the public who accompany us, we present today this young man, who follows the question we asked 15 days ago to Councilman Bargallo, where we returned to express our disappointment at his inaction, at the failure of both parliamentary mandates and announcements made in his parliament, but in any case we focused on the area of inclusive school. We all know, and it is clear, that this government has not made the deployment of Decree 150/2017, better known as the Inclusive School Decree. And the first point of this motion precisely wants to denounce this, it wants to denounce that the decree that the education community expects has not been implemented, and therefore we demand its urgent deployment before the beginning of the next course. And we're not asking about it; we're talking about a decree two years ago, from 2017, and so we can't accept that this course starts again with trimmings in vets like the past course, without professional support enough to suit the student with special educational needs. And, therefore, to the band of wishing that this point is approved, what we want to ensure is that we demand the compliment in September. We want a model of school for everyone, without exclusions and that guarantees equal opportunities. And because that's the way it is, I think we need to recognize that the legislation on the current inclusive school model is not perfect, it has to be completed, it has to be reviewed, above all for various points that we want to say. We believe that we need to recognize the zero-three stage of education, which is essential for a truly inclusive educational system; it is more important than just an early detection of special educational needs that allows us to start before the treatments, the better coordination between the professionals involved, from educational psychiatrists, psychopedagogics, pediatricians, and above all that is to allocate sufficient resources to the centres. Above all, because we want to avoid cases of school breakdowns in more advanced courses, of silage, which have very determined causes and which could be acted upon if we did so before. And that's why the zero-three stage of education seems to be key to us. Secondly, we think that the rules cannot be limited to the lectius time, but that the set of educational time, in and out of school, must be included. And that means mid-day space, that is to say, accumulating service, that is, exits, that is to say colonies, that is, all extra-school activities; all these spaces must be equipped with the support staff needed to attend to the students properly, because it is intended to guarantee rights. And in the third place we also want to recognize the children with chronic illnesses their need to have health care at the schools from the first cycle, from the initial cycle of childhood education, to the post-compulsory study. It is a task that does not correspond to teachers or families, many of whom have to stop working to give this attention. And that's why we accepted a message from Catalonia in Comú Pode, which precisely..., also in agreement with the demands of the collection of seas, that they come back with us and that they come back to greet us, so that it would mean the incorporation of a school nurse who would join the educational centers. And these best of the current legislation we understand to be done before the course..., not sure of the proper course, because we would not get there in time, but before the course 2020-2021, so that we would give another year to the government to incorporate them, they also understand, obviously, that the proper premise, therefore, if we came to see it, would have to contemplate it. And finally, therefore, we must ensure in the proper exercise the resources necessary to give compliment to an inclusive global school model, which is much more than we have today, that it should strengthen the specialized educational resources, and this means both teaching and non-teaching staff, the TEIs, the vets, the psychopedagogs. We know that at these times these teams are collapsing and working with very high rates. And therefore we also need resources to reduce these rates. To provide a public and free offer of specialized training to teachers. Often teachers have to pay for individual application courses because they have a student who doesn't know how to treat him. Also to improve the equipment in support classrooms and to publish and give to know the protocols of various diseases and disorders, which normally, therefore, do not give to know the educational centers. We need to give tools to the educational community to improve precisely this educational attention that is done to the students. And, obviously, also make available once and for all a map of resources from the included to the conjunct of the territory. So good can we have the support of different groups to push a school model for everyone at once. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.87.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, it has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Maialen Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.88.0	Thank you, President. Counselors... – well, at the moment there are none – deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. With this motion we are faced with a new leniency of the Government of the Generalitat regarding the model of inclusive school. In October 2017, this Government had time to hold an illegal referendum and, on the eve of a unilateral illegal declaration of independence, adopted a decree which sought to deploy Law 12/2009 on education, based on a principle of inclusion and school for all. However, almost two years later that decree remains undeveloped. And we remind this government that in non-university education it has exclusive competence. It is only his fault that his incompetence and inactivity are detrimental to pupils with special educational needs. It is basically a matter of priorities, and it is clear that inclusive school for this Government is not. As my partner Sonia Sierra told them, Catalonia occupies the penultimate place in support of students with special educational needs. Without support, without resources, without material or human means, what they enact with this decree translates into pure demagogy and permanent political propaganda for the electorate, because they know perfectly well that without these means the inclusive school does not exist and is therefore a deception to the citizenry. Thus, in our autonomous community, which you consider to be a model of success, we have deaf children without interpreters or children with autism who cannot stay in the dining rooms. To offer solutions it is not necessary that they continue to wait for their virtual republic, it only takes will and desire to work. This inclusive model has been and is being defended by our party, Citizens, which has carried out countless parliamentary initiatives, proposals, requests, etc., in order to implement it. It's just a matter of priorities. We think of real policies and take care of citizens' problems, we do not live in parallel realities or utopias. So before you allow yourself to talk about a successful school model in Catalan school, go down to the reality of the families that have this problem and ask them: Do you think that your children have all the necessary means by the Government's Department of Education to consider that they are sufficiently well cared for in Catalan school? The answer is already given by me: of course not. To deploy this model they have had enough time. Don't listen to the budgets. In Catalonia we live in permanent budgetary extension also because of the ineptitude of the different governments of the Generalitat that have passed through this Parliament. And don't hide behind that excuse because it's just about knowing how to manage and know what our students' real needs and priorities are, those that for you translate into continuing to subsidize and inject millions of euros into public enterprises, foundations, consortia, etc., which year after year have losses and in many cases would be cause for dissolution, as we see constantly in the Union of Accounts. But it doesn't matter, does it? It is everyone's money and we must continue to maintain the mangers in which his friends are sheltered from the process. Article 5 of this decree states that they must ensure that the centres have the necessary resources, personal, methodological, technological, etc., as well as guarantee the conditions of architectural accessibility. Architectural Accessibility? Good question. If most of our students still study in barracks, how will they guarantee it? Are we talking about priorities? I would ask this Government whether it is able to look directly at the families that have this problem and at the families that have deaf children who neither have nor are going to have interpreters of signs in the classes, knowing that it has a cost only 339,000_euros, minute sin for this wasteful government, as have been the previous ones, while for example Mr Bosch, who is not right now, considers it a priority to open a delegation in Argentina, Mexico or Tunisia to talk about « the evil Spain, which has an infinitely higher cost. In addition, you should also be given explanations by other ‘counsellors' to Mr Aragonès, who is trying to cover up an economically drowned generality, with an unusual debt, and saved financially in recent years by that ‘bad Spain that you say he steals from us. But we already know that at this point practically everyone knows that the 3 percent lords are the ones who really started the economic sinking of Catalonia. Are they able to tell families personally that children with autism, for example, will not be able to stay in the dining room because they do not have the staff who will be able to care for them in the dining room? They are children with special needs who deserve the same opportunities as the rest. Do they feel that these are social and non-discriminatory measures? Have you, the government, been able to explain this to families? Really, as a mother, it's hard for me to understand. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And as for the gentlemen of the PSC, tell them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.89.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.90.0	... – yes, I'm done, President – that this motion is pure demagogic. In this motion, in which we do not approve our amendment, which precisely obliged the government to have the budgets approved in the second half of 2019, which should already be approved before October 2018, they know that precisely without those budgets...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.91.0	Congresswoman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.92.0	... without resources, this measure will not be able to be deployed. It is therefore pure demagogy and pure electoral propaganda. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.93.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of the Member of Parliament Yolanda López. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.94.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Decree 150/2017 of 17 October 2017, of the inclusive school, responded at the time of its approval to a strong demand of the educational community to go towards school integration and a need to equip educational spaces with tools to attend diversity, a diversity not understood as a difference or as a segregating question to the student with special educational needs, but as a more distinctive feature of the classroom – where there has been a diversity of students – and that it has to serve children in the most individualized way possible. Diversity really is normality, a normality that, while at primary school has gradually increased, it is a novelty at secondary education, where finally all the students can choose to form at the school of all. This brings more equality of opportunity, more value education, greater social cohesion and a concept of diversity, in other words, more just for all children. Now, it's been more than a year and a half, and the balance is not positive. The decree, like so many others of this government, is there, but it has not been deployed, has not enough resources and has put the educational community in a more complex situation. The paradigm shift is positive, and children and children have been given the right to choose to be educated among equals, but every day this right is violated when neither the centre nor the staff of the resources, the adjutant training or the reduction of the ration necessary to attend to diversity correctly. They've transferred responsibility to the schools without preempting them, and that's irresponsible. Nor have architectural accessibility criteria been provided for in many cases; claims of lack of specialists in mid-term and violations of students' rights with deafness are followed. They've set a four-year horizon to yourselves to complete the transition to an inclusive school model; that's also late. We will also reiterate the need to incorporate the figure of the school nurse into the educational centres. It is intolerable that there are mothers who have had to park their working lives to attend to the health needs of their children at school, in a supposed inclusive school hall. It is also surprising that the need for the figure of the social educator in the schools is not placed on the table. We know that there is a very strong component to the socio-economic situation of families in school segregation, and we also know that this segregation is a direct cause of the high rate of early abandonment. An inclusive school is also one that integrates socioeconomic diversity and bridges with the community, to always guarantee equal opportunities. Asking for a school for everyone and respecting and part of the characteristics and needs of each person and of each collection implies ensuring the right of everyone to a quality education, in equal opportunities and accessibility, personalizing the learning, as well as putting structures, organizations, resources, methodologies and curriculum adaptations that I can afford. This must, without doubt, be a country priority, and be here to demand that they carry it out. Finally, we thank the honourable Member, Mrs Niubó, for her good attitude towards the proposals we have tabled and, of course, we, the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Pode, will vote in favour of the motion. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, now the Member of Parliament Maria Assumption Laïlla has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.96.0	Thank you, President. Before long, greet the people who accompany us to the public today, especially the younger ones, who are not used to being in this room; therefore, go for the cordial greeting. For another gang, excuse the honourable counselor as well. Precisely for this change of time that has occurred in the plenary today, the honourable counselor cannot attend this young man, precisely because he is at the ate ceremony of the teacher who sadly died in Côte d'Ivoire. And, therefore, also from here, from this Faristol, the condol to his family and the educational community of the Canigó School. And I can't stop sending a solid and fraternal hug to all the veins of Maials, the Palm of Ebre, Flix, the Torre de l'Espanyol, of Vinebre; they suffer in the first person this devastating fires, but all, all the country, the patient also and all the country we are responsible for. So, here's a brotherly hug. [[Greetings.]] We find ourselves in front of a motion on inclusive school, a subject that we have dealt with enough in this Parliament, and I also think I can say that, even with the different interventions, we share a whole trunk, important, of the importance of this topic. And in fact with this young man, who basically asks for two things: for one band, to deepen in the deployment of this inclusive school decree, and for another band, to ensure in the daytime practice at school this inclusive attention to special educational needs or to, well, also those infants who suffer some malaise, so we certainly share all a broad, common, central space on the import of this decree and inclusive school. But it's also obvious that the raw reality makes some of the aspects of it dull. And in this sense, and beginning with point 1 of the motion, in this point it is precisely denounced that the Government has not deployed Decree 150/2017, of October 17, of educational assistance to the student in the framework of an inclusive education system, and here it should make two considerations. For a band, it is a decree approved after the assumptions of 2017; therefore, a decree that its economic deployment and its economic needs are not included in assumptions that we are extending; this, for a band. And for another band to remember that this decree was accompanied by an economic memory that we have not been able to complete. Therefore, it is clear that both opposition groups, as well as the groups that support the Government, as well as the Government itself, want to deploy this decree, and we are also aware that we are not going to the speed we want or the speed that the sector sometimes demands. But in this sense they will understand that we cannot support this point as it was written, and that is why we made a statement in this sense, because it is obvious that an effort has been made and it is obvious that it is done and, as it cannot be otherwise, so it will also be done. For what he does to the rest of the points, so obviously, we are generally very much in agreement with this young man. We need to review the regulations on the inclusive school model from the zero-three stage; we need to work for early detection of special educational needs; we also need to advance in interventions, in treatments, to minimize effects; we need to deepen the coordination between CDIAP and EAPs, so this can happen; we also need to consider full-time education, 360 degrees, which is said, right? , all the time, inside and outside the centers... And we will also give support to the project – which, while it has not advanced, I – which they have accepted, from Catalonia to Comú Pode, on the incorporation of a school nurse attached to the centre. In fact, the thought that you pose is the line in which you are working precisely between the two departments, between the Department of Education and the Department of Health, so that this fact is carried out, because we have to understand that society needs to improve in salvation, and salvation we also start from school; not so much medicalizing education, but incorporating salvation into school, speaking not only of treatment, that also, and especially for those children who need it, but also to deepen the concepts that I believe are of the future, that are the prevention and promotion of health. And, in turn, to the second question, that of the incorporation of the social educator into the docent body, we here will abstain, but we share the background of this question, and now I will explain it to them. It's simply a technical issue, it's a technical issue. The LEC retreats, for one band, the teaching team, the teaching body, with access criteria, and for another band, the administration staff and you serve. We share that social educators need to get out of the field of administration staff and serve, but we need to find a way to incorporate them into the teaching team's band. And that's why we also proposed – and this is gathered into the accompanying law – that if these assumptions are approved or approved..., this will change, by such power, so give response to this motion for a resolution. And so, finally, President, just ask and remember the separate vote at point 1 and point 2.1.d. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.97.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and to position herself on the papers also presented, has the words of the deputy of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs. Imma Gallardo. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.98.0	Thank you very much, President. Members and Members, public today accompanying us and Parliament staff, I want to begin by thanking the group proposing that we discuss inclusive school today. All right, you just said we were celebrating the ten years of the LEC, that good instrument that counted on a broad consensus among the different parliamentary groups. But what's clear is that I need to keep improving the way I started and check it all out. In this sense, Decree 150/2017, of 17 October, of the education service to students in the framework of an inclusive education system, was already in this direction. It was a decree that worked a lot with different sectors and collections from their beginnings, from the course of 2014-2015 to their publication, October 2017. In its preamble it has already expressed that the policies of international bodies in the past decades have been fully favourable and compromised with the quality and fairness of education for all children and young people, in the framework of an inclusive education system. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of 2006 or the OECD of 2007 stated that individual and social circumstances should not be an obstacle to educational success. In this same direction was pronounced by UNESCO in 2009, in developing the content of the 1994 Salamanca Declaration or the same European Agency for Special Needs and Inclusive Education in 2011 did not establish the basic principles. In the report "Rethinking 2015 UNESCO Education is already reviewing and developing these international guidelines and adapting to new cultural, social, economic, scientific and technological challenges of the 21st century, and insisting on the fact that inclusive education is a fundamental pillar in promoting social inclusion for all people, in all spheres of life, from childhood to old age. He also recalled that education, as usual, can shape values and attitudes to live together and reduce inequalities, and highlighted the role of teachers and educators as driving agents of these changes. Therefore, Decree 150/2017 drank from these sources and tells us that an inclusive educational centre determines the psycho-educational, format, aesthetic, defence of equity and social justice foundations that must enable us to create the society we want, reduce the gap and exclude it and increase the educational quality for all students, without exception. As a result of this school, families have a role to play through collaboration with the educational centre and active participation. It was, therefore, a decree that wanted to help both the children and the professional and the centres to be truly inclusive; not only of presence, but also that it is possible to guarantee their participation in the apprenticeships, but from the different abilities. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that what normalizes most is normality. This decree required, among other things, an adaptation of both curriculum and evaluation, but also that all professionals in Catalonia had to form, in order to be able to attend to these diversity. Mrs Laïlla said so, we agree that she should continue to explain it; but she also referred to the same final provision first, where, among other measures, it was stipulated that within four years of its entry into force, the organization and the functioning would not be established. He was also counting on an economic memory, but unfortunately we're still on a presuppositional prorogation. We're late, okay, but the decree is in effect and it's starting its deployment. Students are in classrooms, they hold on, and resources are available according to their needs. The annual planning of intensive measures and support at the territorial level has also begun. We agree that we should continue to deploy it, but I believe that we all have a lot of the facts of October 2017 and that to the difficulties added to a normal deployment, above all at the presuppositional level, we must add the imposition of Article 155, a legitimate government ceased, a closed parliament and a situation of the whole anomalous that we cannot fail to denounce. And when you got here, everyone would have to review their responsibility. For what it does to the recognition of the educational stage from zero to three years, we also agree that it is essential. But the schools in Bressol were mostly inclusive and are already recognized for the same LEC. Despite this, we are aware that there is this need and that early detection of students with special educational needs is essential. And that's why there's a joint task of coordinating between CDIAP and EAP and the rest of the professionals. And I'm taking advantage of it to make a recognizance of this gallery of good work. Finally, thank the negotiating will of the deputy Niubó and the good work of the deputy Laïlla. Regret that our papers have not finally been accepted, that they are in the sense of not violating the law and adding some of the raw reality, even though we do not like it. Therefore, we would vote unfavorably at point 1, but we would abstain at point 2.1.d. I want to end with a phrase from the Salamanca Declaration, which says: "It is very difficult for me to hear the naturalness of things. It's natural to be different. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] "This difference makes us unique before the others – I conclude, President. "Then why do you assign me as different from you? Such a time we are no different and, therefore, in essence, we are the same? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.99.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Subgroup Parliament of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Mr Carles Riera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.100.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. Well, in the last few moments, also in this, also in this House, we're talking a lot about education, and that's what we think is a lot of good news. Education, our school, is a basic pillar of a just and democratic society and of the country that we want to build. And we are talking, sadly, about a school, an educational system, hard underdoed, hard underdoed at resource level, and that at these times instead of stopping or reversing school segregation helps to increase it, and consequently also the social segregation that was going on. And inclusive school – inclusive school – should be a basic pillar of this just, democratic and non-segregative school. Indeed, inclusion, the integration of students with diversity or special educational needs is an educational benefit; their integration into the public school, in the ordinary school, is a benefit, sense of doubt, not only for them, but for all students, for all students and for all students – and therefore it should be a foundational pillar of the educational project. That today it is also submissive, also inclusive school, at a difficult under-staffing of resources and at the risk of becoming also one of the areas where school segregation is produced and reproduced. Lack of resources – lack of resources –..., and we will not fail to insist on the essential need for the downsizing and increase of these teaching resources, these pedagogical and educational resources, or else we will create an unsustainable pressure on the educational centres that will put this project of inclusiveness at risk precisely. And lastly, to say that for us all the school, all the educational centres, without exclusion, must be centres of inclusion, the whole school must be inclusive and prepared and adapted to accommodate all, absolutely all, without any discrimination, diversity, the special educational needs or unique that are produced and given in their most immediate territorial environment. The whole school has to be inclusive. And we have to equip it so it can be this way. Only then will we really build a school that reverses school segregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.101.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is now the turn of Deputy Daniel Serrano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.102.0	Thank you, President. From the seat. When we talk about inclusive school... it shouldn't mean less rights, and we've said it many times. When a budget is managed, policies are prioritized. And in this case it is not true – it is not true – that it is not possible to have an inclusive educational system, I do not say optimal anymore, but at least with dignity, with a certain dignity. Because it cannot be used as an excuse whenever it is proposed by the opposition, so that it is managed, governed, claimed and the lack of budget is continually invoked. The budget extension does not help, but it cannot be a continuous excuse. Because when you want to get resources you get them. To open new delegations of the Generalitat abroad, there is money. For a mastodontic budget of Catalan public television, there is money. For public subsidies to entities of dubious public utility, there is money. But, however, for other much more important issues for the benefit of society, the budgetary extension is always claimed here. And that can't be – that can't be. It's just that you have to look families in the face and tell them there's money for a few things and not for what's really a priority. That is why we are going to support the motion, because we understand it basically as a call, as a warning that inclusive school policy must be one of the priority axes of the Government of the Generalitat in the field of education. It's just, how come it's not gonna be? It is that many resources are lacking, professionals are lacking, more specialized centres are lacking, and the current ones are collapsed, because ordinary public centres cannot attend because of lack of capacity. Of course there can be resources. I insist, we no longer aspire, with budgetary extension, to an optimal inclusive school, but at least with dignity. And that is why we are going to support the Socialist Party's motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.103.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the new word Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.104.0	Yes, thank you. To thank the support, the majority support, to all groups, especially the groups that have submitted reviews. To say that we did not accept – and it was well explained by the deputy Titon Laïlla and the deputy Imma Gallardo – the reviews of the groups that support the government; it seemed to us that they wanted to justify this lack of deployment. True, we have a presuppositional extension, but we have also seen how, with Mossos, with some other collections, therefore, solutions have been found. In any case, I do appreciate the disposition of both, the willingness to agree, which I believe helps a lot in these negotiations. Clearly, to me, in this young man, I am surprised by the reactions of some. 15 Fael adviser told me that I was outraged; today the deputy of Ciutadans tells me that we are demagogic, right? I believe that the demagogic is when you make proposals that are not constructive, that you are toasting to the sun and more later taxed. I don't know all about home. But in any case, what we want is to compliment the inclusive school model. We understand that today there is no political will for this. And so, voting today is looking for more resources, so, you know that this wouldn't do you any good. On the other hand, we give one year to the government because we can review this legislation and, moreover, we can give a ple and demand a full compliment of all this. Thanks again to the deputies of Catalonia in Comú We can accept them both. Social educators have also been well explained. And, in any case, let us hope that, with the favourable vote of the groups that support the Government, the issue of the school nurse, therefore, can be a reality at the heart of the proper course. Therefore, we hope that this young man will be an example to the Government to continue to advance in this inclusive school model and above all that the course start without detail and with more resources to make it happen. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.105.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. The vote was requested separately from points 1 and 2.1.d. Yeah? Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] These two separately, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Long break.]] Well, let's start voting on point 1 of this motion. The vote on point number 1 begins. The number one point of this young man was approved by 64 votes in favor... 65, sorry, I didn't say so. The deputy..., we have told the principle of the ple, the deputy Ferran Pedret has delegated, for reasons of fatherhood, his vote initially on the lady Granados and now on the deputy Jordi Terrades. It's not built into the system and that's why I didn't add it. Therefore, there are 65 votes in favour, 62 against and no abstentions – excuse me. And now we vote on point 2.1.d– 2.1.d. The vote begins. Point 2.1.d_has been approved by 66 votes to one, with 61 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of this motion was approved by 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions, that is, unanimously. [[Greetings.]] Before following the information that the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans has requested that the Movement on Security Forces is able to postpone and be substantiated in its own plenary session. So let's not do this today as planned. We're still on the order of the day. [[Motion following the question to the Government on the conclusions of the UN opinion on Catalan political prisoners]] [[302-00119/12]] The following motion is the motion following the question to the Government on the conclusions of the opinion of the United Nations on the Catalan political prisoners presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose it, has the word Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.106.0	Thank you, President. Before I begin I would like to send a recollection, and I believe that on behalf of many Members of Parliament, to the people of Sea Watch 3 and to the people of Proactive Open Arms, who yesterday, obeying life, decided to disobey the Italian and Spanish governments respectively. [[Greetings.]] We find ourselves in front of a young man because the Parliament is able to position itself on what should have been positioned by the Spanish State and have begun to act. A working group of the United Nations showed once more the Spanish State's lack of respect for human rights; in this case, the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, which issued an opinion calling for the immediate release of Catalan political prisoners who had brought their case to trial: Oriol Junqueras, Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart. For now, because they'll come more. It turned out, and in the following interventions we will surely see it again, go through it, when it was possible, and discredit, when it was inevitable, the report of the same working group and the people who make it up. On the other hand, when we have found ourselves with similar reports respecting situations of violations of rights to other countries, of the same working group, the same Socialist Party, for example, I have defended its content to the extreme. Now, however, that it does not affect a third but that puts the magnifying glass on our State, that it may seek all kinds of excuses that had not come out before: that if it is not binding, that if the members that make it are uninformed, that if they intoxicate... But I'd like to ask them, very directly, and I hope they can answer now, which reasons...., these very legitimate reasons – I don't sock anyone to say what each one has to think –..., why these same reasons are not valid in previous cases, which is the difference of the same working group in previous cases and in this case. And, in fact, I am looking at whether the working group is really involved, which the European Parliament can find up to a minimum of eight resolutions adopted in the last four years, based on the positions of the working group and referring to countries outside the European Union; on Venice, yes, but also on Vietnam, on Ethiopia, on the United States, among others. The opinion is very clear and directly asks the Spanish State; it asks that the three independent leaders, who do so immediately, be released. The same opinion shows that the prison has been disproportionate. We're talking about an international first level warning. The United Nations has issued up to 245 resolutions with the same objective. During 2017, up to thirty-one people were released after similar dictates, from the United States, to Israel or Cuba. And why doesn't the Spanish State do it now? And yes, you've already said millions of times, that it's not binding, which we'll see when you get to the Human Rights Council, which is where you'll end up in six months if the Spanish State doesn't give you an answer. But it's also said so few entities suspected of Amnesty International or International Trial Watch. Therefore, we can only demand the immediate compliment. And that means the release of prisoners, it means compensation, and it means an opening of an independent investigation. At the same time, however, with this motion that we are making today we are also completing one of the conclusions of the opinion of the United Nations, which calls for the dissemination of the same report. And if the Spanish government tries to store it, we won't do it from the Catalonian Parliament. We are talking about worthy people, we are talking about poor people, who have struggled to the end and in a democratic way for their ideas, to give a way out before the immobilism of the Spanish State to the demands of a good part of the people of Catalonia. But now, while you seek excuses to keep them locked up in jails, they are losing their lives, losing their families and their families are losing them; children who see each other growing up once a month between the walls of a prison. The country and politics are losing people of poor and determined people, and friends – friends – are also losing us. And this we find to be missing every day of our lives, as now the next week, that for the next year the Jordi Cuixart will lose the Festival Life, in Vilanova and the Geltrú, where we used to find each year to make culture, to celebrate, of course, yes, and to make life, a lot of life, every day of our lives. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.107.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, she has the word, first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.108.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Miri, we're in front of a young man who was in the background an interrogation, who was a disc dedicated by the Republican Left to Councilman Bosch. A young man in whom I would say that even our papers have not been read, because you certainly don't have to agree with them. A young man who continues with this... I would say, with this epic and little rigour in which they somehow play the true myths and distort enough the transcendence of an opinion of a working group. Listen, you asked about the working group and what it is ugly about, and I would also like to ask it, ask you how it is possible that here we all remain silent when the Councillor of Justice yesterday – except for my fellow Member of Parliament who called it and said it – in the Faristol, he reduced the members of the Council of Guarantees Statutes and posed in question his expertise, his criteria and his own dictitudes. A whole Councilwoman of Justice, as she had done a part of this hemicicle on the 6th and 7th of September 2017. I believe that, if we are to reflect on many things, we should also reflect on why we are constantly asking – and that is what you are specialists in – institutions, that the only thing we do is to weaken democracy and above all to weaken self-government. And this is also seen in the day-to-day life of this Parliament. Because this government, in order to justify a political project, a political project that has generated division, fracture and breakage of coexistence, what it does is constantly disqualify not just the same self-government, but the Spanish institutions permanently. Irresponsible mass. They bring masses of years forward to public opinion that Spain is not a democracy; and now they have found that someone has written them and you must not be yourself. Miri, I have taken the literal question and the reply of Councillor Bosch to the question made to him by the Member. He said, Counsellor Bosch: "This is a top-level international warning, a serious thing, it's binding. We do believe in United Nations, we do believe in institutions... in international institutions. As I said: epic and low rigor. Look, we've been very clear on the points, we've presented some points that make clear the value of the opinion of the working group, not that the misguided, but what their legal and political value was. Opinion 6/19 and all those issuing the Arbitrary Detention Working Group are not binding, as was granted by the United Nations Human Rights Commission in its Resolution 1997/50. We are not talking about the United Nations as an international organization, but about a working group whose opinions have no internal legal effects. And, besides, listen, as I don't get an expert, I went to look for the United Nations system, and it doesn't go away. I do not mislead or question the people who comply with it, but I have made it clear what we are talking about. That's the only thing we want to put on the table. Apart from that, we believe and, moreover, we have also expressed it in the papers, that the opinion shows an important lack of rigour in ignoring such basic issues as the division of power of all the states of rights, and gives per fact or by proof that they are being judged. We also wanted to present a report on demanding rigour and accountability in the information. He told Congressman Wagensberg that... one of the things he says is that he has to find out. And we believe that, in any case, we must inform ourselves in a correct way, and therefore with responsibility. And the third of our reviews, and I think it's a little bit of a key, is that we wanted to manifest the transcendence of the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which is indeed binding, and that you are acting in a systematic way. The decision of the European Court of Human Rights gives rise to knowledge and explains that it unanimously rejects the application lodged by President Forcadell and seventy-five more Members against the decision of the Constitutional Court for Parliament, when the 9 October session was suspended. And he says: "The suspension of the Constitutional Court was lacking in a democratic society for the maintenance of public security, the defence of order and the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. If we have to make the resolutions public, make them all public. On this basis, I understand that our papers have interested you very little. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.109.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Susana Beltrán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.110.0	Thank you. What are the obligations of the working group under a subsidiary organ of the United Nations? They're very clear. And they are very clear, both in the functions of this working group and in the report of this working group itself, which is dependent on a subsidiary body. That is, you can make recommendations, you can invite states like Spain to take it into account, but they are not binding. And when the government says it's binding and that it's a top-level opinion, it's deceiving all citizens, it's lying. They're not binding. And they are not binding because this body is not a judicial body. And since it is not a judicial body, the accused, in this case, Spain, does not have the conditions of defence and impartiality that it would have if the accused, Spain, were in a judicial body such as the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, the resolutions of this working group are not binding, because the guarantees of defence are not the same. Spain does well – Spain does well – to go to the Human Rights Council and protest and defend Spanish democratic institutions. It's good and it's also in your right. And here, at this time, then, to me, putting in context, I would also like to know why the Geneva office of the Government – in Geneva, which is where all United Nations agencies are –..., we press the button of the Transparency portal to see what is the agenda of this Geneva office and we have zero answers and zero information about this office. What is the Government doing in Geneva before United Nations agencies? What is the separatist government doing to United Nations agencies on human rights issues, when it gave a donation of EUR 100_000 to the Commissioner for Human Rights? If we had the information and they were also subject to Parliament's control they would remove suspicions of corruption or others, but as they do not, the suspicion is present. On the other hand, Spain is obliged to comply with the decisions and judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Recently they accused..., Carmen Forcadell plus seventy_and_five people accused Spain before the European Court of Human Rights and at the end what the European Court of Human Rights has done is to endorse the opinion, the rulings of the Constitutional Court when on September 6 and 7, 2017 the separatist parties abused by their majority in the Parliament and injured the political rights of the opposition who were defending majority positions of Catalans who were attending their homes horrified, frightened, very worried about how in this Parliament the Constitution, the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy, were being trampled on the rights of millions of Catalans who did not think or did not commune with the separatist theses, with total impunity, with total coldness and without any kind of look, with total disregard for those millions of Catalans who do not think and do not commune with the separatist theses. Where are you now? Why are you now here in the Parliament of Catalonia, which is where that coup d'état took place, which is where the rights of millions of Catalans were trampled, why do you – and you have not already done so – not apologize to those millions of Catalans? And I also say that for all those pearls that are offered as mediators, right? We are not talking about equality between the parties, but we are talking about one party trampling on the rights of other parties and the rights of millions of Catalans who did not think with the separatist theses. [[Greetings.]] Where are they? Why do they not apologize in this Parliament, in this institution? It is not necessary for the judicial bodies to say this, it is not necessary, but instead you instead of apologizing what they say is..., the President of Catalonia, the President of all Catalans: « We will return to iron. For out there are millions of Catalans again worried, again frightened, again despised, because you in the past, and it seems that in the future too, you will continue to trample on the rights of those Catalans. Citizens will continue to defend the rights of all Catalans, think or not like us, in front of those who trample the rights of those who do not think or who do not commune with the separatist theses, here in the Parliament of Catalonia, in the Congress of Deputies and in the European Parliament. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.111.0	On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Josep Costa has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.112.0	Thank you, President. Let me begin by showing my dismay at the fire-derived events that are patenting these moments for the harms of the patients and supporting all the institutions that are working to put an end to this disgrace. Also welcome the return of political prisoners to Catalan prisons and again demand their release as requested by the United Nations opinion that we are discussing today in this House. Indeed, this opinion calls for the release because the imprisonment of these prisoners is an arbitrary decision of the Spanish State that violates the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. That's why we have to demand every day, every hour his release and restitution of his rights, as well as the free return of the exiles that are right in the situation that is caused by this arbitrary arrest of his governing companies. Also take advantage to show my solidarity with the President of the Generality, who today knows that he will be prosecuted, surely, for having defended the freedom of expression in the buildings of the Generality and that probably for an absolutely arbitrary decision also of the Central Electoral Board, that they lead the friends of 155 and the hooligans of some of the groups of this chamber, this absolutely arbitrary and lacking impartiality is that which is bringing the President of the Generality also to justice. Well, for what the Junts group has presented for Catalonia, there is one that I want to anticipate that this will not be the only decision, the only opinion of the United Nations, of the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Working Group, on the Catalan political prisoners. There is no other one who is on the way and we are sure that it will be of the same tenor and that affects Josep Rull, Raül Romeva, Joaquim Forn and Dolors Bassa. We will see that in the second instance they will not rectify, confirm the decision, confirm that they are political prisoners and that they must be released immediately. We have also introduced a point to clarify that some of the actions that are being asked of the Government are already on the march, especially as a result of the fact that the Executive Council on May 31 already took a follow-up of agreements as it now disseminates this opinion and urges the prosecution through the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Catalonia to do all the necessary actions to ensure that the victim political prisoners of the repression after October 1 are released. There is no other thought that he wants to introduce us, obviously the group proposing to whom we thank the presentation of this motion at the time that he registered the motion yet did not know, we have no knowledge, none of us, that the Electoral Board, this "arbitrary branch regulating elections" [[remorse of the voice]] , which tried to prevent arbitrary and illegal – and recognizable to the courts –...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.113.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.114.0	...this institution has declared the escons of more than 2 million independent citizens vacant. That's what we've proposed to pin on this young man as a new fact after his presentation, and that he can denounce all the institutions. There are a lot of people in Strasbourg on 2 July, a lot of Catalans and a lot of Europeans complaining that there are not all of them, that they do not want all of the candidates voted for this country, for the majority of the citizens of this country. [[Greetings.]] As for Ciutadans reviews, a couple of very quick comments. We are asked to respect the United Nations Committee, the United Nations Human Rights Committee. Fantastic. Do you remember when he asked that Jordi Sánchez's investiture be allowed? Quin cynicism – quin cynicism. Ask for separation of powers, separation of powers that should contemplate that the composition of a parliament is decided by the citizens with their votes, not the judges. Separation of powers is above all that, that the composition of a parliament is decided by the citizens and not by the judges. Are you in favor of this separation of powers? Then, if you're not in favor of this, don't talk to us for seconds. In any case, there are a couple of items that we will keep framed, I would say that we will look at them with a swarm of chryspers, because, when they start talking about what we must respect Strasbourg and what we must respect the international courts, we will see what they will say and see all the resolutions to come. And, above all, note the notoriety of a reference, which is the Court of Justice of the European Union, in Luxembourg. From here to a few days, it will be trending topic and surely [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out]] ... they haven't heard of it yet, so their thoughts don't talk about it, but in Madrid they have already invited him, to his president, there, to do his things, dinars and dinners of rigor, as with the Court of Strasbourg before...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.115.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.116.0	...and – thank you, President – ahab: freedom of political prisoners. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.117.0	Next, and to fix his position, he has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Congresswoman Susana Segovia. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.118.0	Thank you very much. We live in a situation of polarization and political abnormality, of democratic exceptionality, and indeed this Parliament, every time we talk about the subject, is another example. It is to say, to deny this situation, to deny the fact that there are people who are engaged in their political positions, who are political prisoners, does not help to get out of this situation of abnormality, is to deny what we consider to be evidence. He didn't want to give a political exit to this conflict, he didn't want to. We have opted for the judicialization of politics, we have chosen to criminalize people, who may be more or less in agreement with political actions and with the political statements that they made at the time, we can criticise everything that we say happened on September 6th and 7th, we can criticise everything that we want the process. We've done it, many times, we've said it many times too. We do not believe that unilaterality is the exit to the political conflict in Catalonia either. But that doesn't justify the fact that there are people who are willing to think it was a way out. To these people, I believe that what we from this Parliament have to ask is that they come to give, so yes, the responsibilities and political explanations here, which they believe; here, on the street, before the citizens and before their voters, before the people who voted for them. What does not solve and what it is not to give a political answer is to hold them to prison in an absolutely unjustified way, especially people like in Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart, who are doing so for having participated in peaceful mobilizations in the street, and as Amnesty International has also said. Because this is what we do with human rights organizations and dictates, we only do it when it suits us what the human rights dictates and organizes. We should also try to have a single clear position on respect for international human rights organisations and United Nations bodies. The Dolors Bassa, the Carme Forcadell, the Jordi Cuixart, the Jordi Sánchez, the Jordi Turull, the Josep Rull, the Oriol Junqueras, the Raül Romeva and the Joaquim Forn. Joaquim Forn would have liked us to have been at the Barcelona Assembly in political opposition and political confrontation with the Barcelona Government in Comú; we would have liked to have had here the people who were elected as Members of Parliament, we would have liked to be able to find them at the Congress of Deputies and the European Parliament in political confrontation with ideas. The prison cannot confront them politically, the prison cannot have a political debate, and these people should not be in prison. These people must hold and hold back politically, before their voters in the first place, before all the people of Catalonia when we go to some elections, in the second place, and also before this Parliament. We ask them to come here, they say, to give political explanations, yes. But they can't, they're in jail, and they don't let them take part in the places where they have to give these political responsibilities. But it's that, besides, I'll read you a quote: "Detention was qualified for the illegal, arbitrary, and politically motivated UN. I mean, it's political, and it's only possible to demand his immediate release. There are red lines that, when they are crossed by any rule, they should blow up the alarms of the democrats, and we believe that engaging dissidents is a red line that no democrat in Europe should let go. Statement by Irene Lozano, Secretary of State of Global Spain, on behalf of Minister Borrell, when she was a Member of Parliament, on an opinion issued for the same United Nations working group, which basically gave the same as she has said now. So it was a violation, it was a red line, it was a democratic attack; now what Minister Borrell is doing is asking for explanations from independent experts who have made the opinion. What is Minister Borrell's vision of multilateralism? What is the view of the socialist government, the government of Pedro Sánchez, of the role to be played by international bodies, international experts, independent observers? Do they have to do it as a function of the return government, which interprets what they say what they want? What is not clear to us is whether Mr. Borrell has not read who is the mandate of the working group, or who is unclear what is the link that this has with the Human Rights Commission, or whether the meaning of the concept is "independent, in general, that creates it. In any case, we believe that your statements and the message sent to the United Nations are out of place. It is also true that this is quite common in all governments, because the Government of the Government of Catalonia does not do the same to the resolutions of the United Nations as it does when it respects them in the State of Israel. We support this young man and ratify that what we need is to work together for a political solution and that it would be very good for this Parliament to face the citizenry, given the first lessons that we are able to find a political solution among all the demands. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.119.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the return of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.120.0	Thank you, President. Well, about two years ago, Mr Rubalcaba said publicly that "Spain will have to assume a deterioration of its democratic image at international level. He got her right, he got her right. And this statement is important not only for itself, but for whom you say it; indeed, one of the people who was one of the main engineers of the 78th Regime, one of the main artifices of the state's engine room. And, therefore, it seems to us that it is important to remember this expression, because that is why I feel, and the Spanish State is already part of that black list of states that do not complete indications of the mechanisms and safeguards of the human rights of United Nations or, for example, of Amnesty International; now, the Spanish State is already part of it and gives reason to Mr Rubalcaba. And that will continue to happen, it will continue to pass badly, because by the 78th rule, for the Spanish State, for the parties that support it, the raison d'etat is over democracy and civil and political rights, and the democratic rights are regulated according to the primacy of the raison d'etat; raison d'etat is that it is materialistic juridically, as it was said at the beginning of the judicial process, in the principle that it is the unit of Spain that inspires and from which the foundations of the judicial system emanate to the Spanish State. And, logically, this generates the legitimization of the criminalization of civil and political rights when these question the 78th rule; for example, disobedience or reference. As an altcarc of the Spanish Government said..., he said: "Today, in Spain, Gandhi would be in jail. Ole. [[Rialles.]] And actually, for us, quite the contrary, democracy and rights is and will always be above the raison d'etat, of any state. And for us to expand ever legitimate rights and will legitimize disobedience; obviously, to expand rights, to expand civil and political rights for everyone will always legitimize the right to disobedience. And for us, in the end, for this young man, it is also a moral and political right for everyone, if it means democracy, defending the freedom and absolution of political prisoners; here and the world and before any international institution. Thank you very much. And that is why we will vote in favour of the motion. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.121.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.122.0	Thank you, President. When we talk about international politics and its institutions, you have developed a curious inductive method to turn the anecdote into a category. As soon as I came to this chamber, a fortune was made by an ex-advisor of Angela Merkel who made statements in favour of a referendum in Catalonia; the next day, without any redundancy, you and your related media titled: "Merkel and Germany, in favour of the independence of Catalonia". After a few months, there appeared on the scene a histrionic and stifling congressman of Finland with theories about the Vikings and Valhalla, who curiously was also independentist in favor of the independence of Catalonia, and headlined – you can imagine – "Finland supports the independence of Catalonia. It was not too many months before a Danish Green Group MEP, who seemed to have made friends with Mr Romeva, also broke into the scene at the time – I think it's great – and you can also imagine the headline the following day: « Denmark supports the independence of Catalonia. With such a capacity for self-deception, it is no wonder that you came up and on October 27, 2017 declared the independence of Catalonia, assuring that you would receive an allusion of international recognition. The reality is that they were zero, something that led Marta Pascal, then leader of the PDECAT, to say – I quote textually – "Perhaps we do not interpret well the international support we had at our disposal. Actually, Marta, you didn't interpret them very well. Well, far from correcting such a ruinous, inductive method for you, you insist on it and assure us today that an opinion called Opinion 6/2019, of a UN working group – I quote textually as well – "means that Spain is obliged by the UN to release prisoners immediately. No, it's not. No one believes it. Neither is opinion binding, nor does it force Spain to do anything, nor does it mean that the UN considers that there are political prisoners in Spain. It is all a scam, what you are doing, once again, in foreign policy, and a metaphor for your way of acting in foreign action as well, which is ultimately wasted money in useless propaganda, trolls everywhere, in many cases blushing for you, all of you, and at the end of the score the really important thing: zero international recognitions. I repeat: zero international recognitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the new word the deputy Rubén Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.124.0	Thank you very much. Gratify Junts' presentations for Catalonia; also the speeches of the commons and the CUP. Mrs. Escarp, yes, I read the papers, yes I read them. What's going on is that we've had relatively little interest, because the only thing they do is whitewash the Spanish state's authoritarianism. [[remorse of voice and some applause]] , denounced for the organization of the United Nations that is in charge of analysing possible arbitrary detentions; not only he, but also Amnesty International. It's maybe you... I understand you're carrying the prepared speech and... but it's maybe you who didn't listen to me, because I explained that it wasn't binding. What I've been trying to do is to put a question, which is: why in other reports from the same working group, from the same people, in very similar situations, have you defended what you say when it comes to third countries, and have you not done so now? That was the very direct question I asked you and the other groups in the chamber, and they didn't answer it. [[Greetings.]] And, well, no, just to finish, as I also said in my speech, I'm sure you've made many, many excuses to defend this, and I think these excuses just answer one thing: that in the background of your hearts and in the background of your reasons, you also want these free people, and you don't know how to endure it. Thank you. [[Greetings. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.125.0	Once the debate was over, we called for a vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] I understand you don't. Well, then we'll vote on the joint motion with a single vote. The vote begins. This motion was adopted by 73 votes to 55, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] We're still on the order of the day. But before I do, I'm guessing that, as the last of the motions to be seen today has been postponed to a proper Ple, we'll move on to the remaining motion, only one of the motions pending late this morning. So, we'll do the whole order of the day before dinner, and we'll end up around three o'clock in the afternoon, and so we won't have any more to deal with this late. Okay? [[Pause.]] [[Inquiries to the Government on actions that undermine coexistence]] [[300-00155/12]] Keep going. The next point is the question to the Government about the actions that harm the coexistence, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word the deputy Lorraine Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.126.0	Yes, thank you, President. Before I begin with the interpellation, I want to show my concern about the serious fire that is destroying thousands of hectares in Tarragona – I, especially, who am also Tarragona. It is already affecting several municipalities, has forced the eviction of many families and is thus causing irreparable damage and loss. From here all our support also to the professionals who are working tirelessly on these extinction tasks, and we hope, therefore, that the fire can be controlled as soon as possible. And now yes, Mrs. Counselor, I'm starting with the interpellation. Look, just a few days ago, on the occasion of the end of the trial to the politicians of the trial, Mr. Torra again demonstrated what his purpose is at the head of the Generalitat. He came to continue with Mr Puigdemont's road map and to repeat the separatist attempt that has done so much damage to Catalonia. Thus, Mr. Torra confirmed to us what we in Citizens already knew, and that is that they would do it again, they would do it again. A challenge, a threat, a declaration of intent or the chronicle of an announced death, because nothing good came out of there the first time, and nothing good will come out of this second time, when you try. Some may think that Mr. Torra's words are just that, words; but if one stops and analyses his actions well, we will see that all of them are aimed at repeating the blow, and what is worse, at repeating its consequences. Or, rather, to increase them, because we are still today suffering the consequences of their actions, and I am very afraid, with their attitude, that we are far from reversing them. For Citizens, one of the most serious and most damaging effects to Catalonia is the rupture by half of Catalan society. You have managed to divide the Catalans into two without any remorse and without any intention of reuniting them. How, if not, are the barbarities committed day after day explained? We have seen, for example, cases of school indoctrination. That's not what I'm saying, Mrs. Capella, that's what the High Education Inspectorate report says. That report, by the way, which both the People's Party and the Socialist Party had hidden in a drawer. This report notes, among other things, that in some textbooks used here in the school of Catalonia, Catalonia is reflected as, I think, "a territory with economic and industrial dynamism, while the population of the rest of Spain appears as "proletarian, peasant and daily. Look, this is pretty similar to what your boss, Mr. Junqueras, said a few years ago. Do You Remember? He wrote about genetic closeness and said: "The Catalans have more genetic proximity to the French than to the Spanish, more to the Italians than to the Portuguese, and a little to the Swiss, while the Spanish have more genetic proximity to the Portuguese than to the Catalans and very little to the French. Come on, racism of all life. Do you feel the same way, Mrs. Capella? Do you also believe that there is differentiated DNA? I don't know how these kinds of manifestations benefit coexistence. Nor do I know how it benefits your cohabitation that you spend your life flooding with separatist propaganda, yellow plastic, any corner of Catalonia. That is that, besides, I remind you, Catalonia is not yours, Catalonia is of all Catalans. And even if it's hard for you to believe it, there are Catalans who don't want their yellow plastic everywhere; in particular, more than half of Catalonia. I also don't know what help it helps for your cohabitation that you go to the chiringuito every day. Look, this very week, embassies in Mexico, Argentina, Tunisia... for what? For basically for two things: to plug the friends, of course, and to speak badly of Spain. To speak ill of Spain; that is, to speak ill of Catalonia, because Catalonia is part of Spain. So, when you go around talking bad about Spain, what you're doing is talking bad about Catalonia. Come on, does this help living together, talking bad about Catalonia and Spain? This helps a barbarity... Just as it also helps greatly the coexistence that is systematically used TV3 as a platform to denigrate, insult or even mock something as delicate as a kidney transplant. I just don't even want to imagine what you guys would have done if you'd mocked some independence player with such a sensitive subject on Spanish Television. But of course, as was Mr. Millo, then nothing happens, is it, Mrs. Counselor? Do you realize how offensive this is? Do you condemn such acts? Is it funny that from public television they make fun of something so sensitive, Mrs. Capella? Another thing you do, in particular your party, Esquerra Republicana, is declare people not grateful to all those who do not commune with their ideas, and literally expel them from Catalonia. And not only that, it is also, according to separatism, it seems that there are places in Catalonia that we cannot go to. And of course, as we go, radical separatism threatens us, harasses us and even attacks us, as happened in Torroella. What do you think of this, Mrs. Capella? For to the high mayor of his party seemed an almost heroic act, listen; so much so, that he even tweeted proudly himself of the aggressors. That is the Catalonia that you are building, a Catalonia in which we can't even walk, a Catalonia in which you are pointed out, in which you are crushed, a monocolored Catalonia, in which anyone who dares to take it against separatism is a botifler, a traitor, a bad Catalan and a facha. A Catalonia where they mark you according to the language you speak. Because, of course, according to Mr Torra, this is what I am doing here today, which is speaking Spanish, this is very rare, this is very rare in Catalonia. Look, I do it and it does it 60 percent of the population of Catalonia, which are data from the Idescat. But Mr. Torra says this isn't natural, no, no. And he also said more things, Mr. Torra. For example, I read it to him, saying: "What a deterioration. You go out on the street and nothing tells you that's the street of your parents and grandparents. The Castilian advances relentlessly, voraciously, very quickly. This was written by Mr. Torra, Mrs. Capella. Do you think so? Because your mates, for example, do think so. Mrs Borràs, or Mrs Vilallonga, who are signatories to the Koiné manifesto, a manifesto that says that people who come from the rest of Spain, such as my grandparents, who came here to Catalonia to work..., because that manifesto says they are involuntary instruments of linguistic colonization. Instruments.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We're not even people. In fact, we have been told here several times that we are inhumane. They take us to our humanity. Do you know that this is a typical technique of the most dangerous nationalism, of that which has done so much damage in Europe? I am convinced that, on its own bench, there are also many Members whose parents and grandparents came from other parts of Spain. What face do you have when you read things like this that Mr. Torra wrote? You wrote more, huh? For example, in El Món, I read it to him; he said: "Today we realize that we are stupefied where we were. Worse still, that the feeling of national urgency has multiplied, and that there is a risk that the nation will be torn like a sugar in a glass of milk, strung between the immigrant avalanche. What do you think of this? Because this is book xenophobia, Mrs. Capella. And not only do I say that, but the main European parties also say that they have put their hands to their heads when they see the racist and supremacist articles of their boss, Mr Torra. He's got more pearls, too, the president. Look, this is another one. It is an article published in El Matí Digital entitled "Raza Day? But what race? "Spain has essentially been an exporter of misery, materially and spiritually speaking. I mean, we've exported to Lorca, Picasso, Buñuel, Velázquez, and he could be here until tomorrow quoting "miseries," says Mr. Torra. In the rest of the world they are universal figures; but listen, according to Mr Torra, we only export miseries. I wonder: How does this help coexistence, these manifestations? And you don't think this is the worst thing Mr. Torra said, no, no. Look what Mr Torra thinks of the Catalans who also feel Spanish, who, by the way, are the majority, says so even the CEO. Well, look what you think. He says: "Who would dare say one of these Spaniards living with us who has meant something in the history and progress of mankind? A Catalan who aspires to be Spanish is nothing. That's why these things that we have to endure, like the PP or Citizens, and other protofascist reducts, are nothing, the total void, the absolute lack of minimal civility and respect in the country where you live, unbrained beasts that present resources and shout and threaten. He says that a Catalan who aspires to be Spanish is nothing, the total void. Look, I'm going to tell you a little bit, Mrs. Capella, because maybe you haven't noticed: it's that Catalans don't have to aspire to be Spanish, because we are, and the obvious proof is that you want to stop being Spanish. [[Greetings.]] Mrs. Capella, do you agree with these manifestations? Have you spoken to Mr. Torra? Have you ever reproached you for these articles? Have you sat down to talk to him about these articles? 'Cause there's more, huh? Look, the crown jewel. This one should ring a bell. It is called "The tongue and the beasts, and it says: "Now you look at your country and see the beasts speak again, but they are of another kind: carrots, vipers, hyenas, beasts with human form. However, let them sip hatred, a disturbed, nauseous hatred, like dentures tarnish with mold, against all that the tongue represents. They're here, between us. They dislike any expression of catalanity. It's a sick phobia. There's some Freudian in these beasts, or a small patch in their DNA chain. Poor people. They live in a country they don't know everything about, their culture, their traditions, their history. They walk waterproof to any event that represents the Catalan fact. It creates hives, ricochets everything other than Spanish and Spanish. They have names and surnames, these beasts. We all know some. Abundant, beasts. They live, die and multiply. I don't think we need to add anything else, Mrs. Capella. I hope, when I come out here, that you will answer me to what..., what good is this to living together, but above all also, not only that you will answer this to me, but at least that you will be able to condemn these barbarities. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.127.0	To answer the word you have the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.128.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mrs Roldán, look, you always bid... well, it's placed at the level of this gallery of speakers and repeats the same story to us sometimes, asking directly what we think, what do we say, if we agree, if we don't agree, and I used to listen to you and go thinking: this speech is not the first time that it's done in this faristol, and it's not the first time that we've felt it, so, in this hemisphere, it's not the first time or it will surely be the last. And listening to you I came to the memory, so, the same words that Mrs. Arrimadas « matxaconament has repeated in this Faristol. You can sometimes repeat these words studied and thought to do the headline, and, therefore, to be able to "see that here in this country, therefore, there are people who say things that are barbarity, when in reality it is you who say barbarity permanently. In reality, who is empty of content, who is, there, together empty, they are Ciutadans, and their program and their political proposals, why, beyond the great slogans, what have you brought to politics in this country? What do you bring to the politics of the Spanish State? I'll give you some thoughts about living together, I'll do them, because..., despite the fact that we've repeated them a few times, also Vice President Junqueras, President Puigdemont, President Mas, all the presidents that this country has had, the current President of the Generality, Mr. Torra – President of the Generality. I already know that you know how hard it is to refer to him as president, but well, in any case, we would insist on this issue, because institutions are respected when it is respect for the people who are in front, the nice or not the nice, the voted or not voted on, the same way that I respect the spokespersons of parliamentary groups, whether they are from my party or not. And that's what you... you seem to be lying, but you never do that. So stop cleaning up the others and look at yourself in the sights. Miri, the Parliament of Catalonia, and I gave it to you at the beginning of my intervention, already experienced a monographic debate driven by Ciutadan on the priority of the social agenda and the recovery of coexistence, with the sole objective of reversing the conflict, forcing division, because that is what you are comfortable in, talking about division and encouraging this division. It is you who are placed in this situation. Citizens is a game that was born to spoil the consensus. We have said this many times in Catalonia, but now it turns out that in the Spanish State they have begun to discover them; not only in the Spanish State, in Europe: including their great ally, that you say it was their great ally, Mr. Macron, therefore, including this Lord has already ignored them publicly and publicly; that he does not want to see anything with you because you go from the top right. Their only object... do you know what their only object is? So crack and fracture. That's what you do: crack and crack. Do you know what really harms living together? Do you know what really harms living together? So living together harms the difficult social inequalities that unfortunately exist in the country, here and in the Spanish State; the risk of poverty and social exclusion, which you care very little about. Harms the coexistence of the difficult situation of emergence and housing vulnerability in a context of increase of generalized prices in the country. You were in position yesterday: you don't care about this, neither here nor the Spanish State – neither here nor the Spanish State. Nor when we had to clear the financial entities, which we saved, and which, then, in the painful bank, in the Sareb, therefore, they privatized. And you didn't follow the thrusters, the main allies. Because, Mrs. Roldán, look, I've had the luck of being a senator and a deputy – and I say the luck – representing my country in the Congress and the Senate, and I know perfectly well the role that you played in those institutions and that you're playing there, and that you're saying one thing today, and depending on what they say, they say another. And what doesn't concern you – what doesn't concern you – are people's rights and freedoms. It harms coexistence by its permanent willingness to load the education system to end with a model of consensus, of recognized success, which is linguistic immersion. You insist, "Let's constantly deal with this issue. It's a success model; I don't want to deny reality. It is you who are constantly attacking the system that has cohered this country. Look, look, look, look at the social reality of the country; look, look, look at the eyes of the rulers who want to be on the side of the citizenry, not those who hold the fire permanently based on slogans and an attitude like theirs. It harms the coexistence of male violence, with more than a thousand women murdered in the Spanish State since the year 2003, which is when these crimes begin to be officially accounted for. And, yes, Mrs. Roldán, the violence has genera, it's masculinist, though you, who go from Vox's handle, deny it. It harms the coexistence – it harms the coexistence – of this country's repression and the police charges and the violence before all the people who peacefully wanted to vote on October 1st; more than two thousand agents, between the National Police and the Civil Guard, who were deployed to Catalonia and who fought, in what way, against the people. It harms the coexistence of innocent people who are unfairly engaged, without a sentence, for crimes that have not been committed. They didn't eat them, Mrs. Roldán, they didn't eat them. And the Penal Code – the Penal Code –, which is the Constitution in denial, which you too should read more, do not say – do not say – what you matchaconament said you say. It harms the coexistence of the accelerated retreat in civil and political rights, which kept us in a situation of repressive exceptionality and persecution against activists, masters, rappers, tweeters, journalists and a large etc., and of which you are the main participants. And it undermines the coexistence of the rise of the extreme right and the fascism that you feed with the agreement of the Spanish State with Vox in the assemblies and autonomous governments. It harms Europe's most corrupt party – yes, Europe's most corrupt party – year-long partnership; a party that has embezzled €48,000_million and has more than 248 cases of corruption, more than with strong convictions. It harms the coexistence of battling – battling – with frank names the streets of the towns and cities, as you have done with the new government of the People's Party - Citizens in Cordova. That's what you're doing right now. And, for example, as in the Madrid Assembly today it was announced that the Government of the People's Party and of Ciutadans will close the Office of Human Rights and Memory, which was installed in March 2017 for Mayor Manuela Carmena. Look, that's what you are – that's what you are –, the systemic violation of rights and freedoms, and it's you who do the confrontational policy where you are and where you are. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.129.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, it's the congresswoman's turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.130.0	Yes; thank you, President. Please note, Mrs. Capella, that you have had plenty of time, but you have not condemned any of the articles or the words and thoughts of Mr. Torra. And that's what's left of you minutes and minutes. [[applause]] But you haven't found the time to condemn it. I wonder why. I wonder why, Mrs. Capella. And you ask me, you ask me; I don't know, you have that ugly habit. But I answer you, because I don't do like you, I do answer what you ask me. He asks me what we've brought. Well, look, as soon as we are the party that has put forward the most proposals in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] Yesterday even a law for textbooks to be free. The question is now to you: what have you achieved with your famous process? What have you achieved? What good has he brought to Catalonia? Nothing, absolutely nothing. You have burdened the economy of Catalonia, you have denigrated these institutions and you have burdened yourself with living together in Catalonia. And he accuses us of churning. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, he accuses us of churning. It's funny to me, honestly, because, of course, they call you a whore in a public communication medium, that doesn't wink, does it, Mrs. Capella? That's all love, isn't it? Let it be said that Spain steals from us, as Mr. Aragonès said, with this little sign, that's not crispar, that's all love, isn't it, Mrs. Counselor? Let Mr. Torra go around calling the bugs, that doesn't creak, that's all love. That the courts are attacked, you who are counsel of Justice, political headquarters or even private homes with yellow paint and excrement, that doesn't crease, man, no, no, that's all love. You are pure love and goodness. That is why Mr Torra tells us about the Slovenian road, tells the CDRs to tighten up, does not condemn violence, as you have done, many times, neither, and now threatens us to strike again. You are all love, pure goodness. You are beings of light, everyone knows it, come on. It's just that, honestly, he also talks to me..., he has had the defachability to reproach me for the social problems that exist in Catalonia, which is the responsibility of his Government, which have not brought here even the budgets, which are wasting the money of all Catalans in their separatist obsession, embassies all over the world to speak ill of Spain. And on top of that, no one buys their speech. With the money you've been spending, you've got to buy organisms, huh? , with the money of all Catalans to buy their speech, that no one in Europe buys it, that they do not open the doors of the European institutions, eh? Because you very much present yourself on the lists to go to represent Spain in the European institutions, so much that you speak badly of Spain... ; you said: "I, very proud to be a senator and to have been a Member. So much that you speak badly of Spain, but then put the hand to collect the salary of the Spanish institutions that doesn't matter to you, there you have no repair – no repair. [[Greetings.]] He also told me about the macho violence. I don't know how many times I've said it, but I'm going to say it here again, because I have it in front of me and they're recording us: all my condemnation, my rejection and my repulse for macho violence, all of it. [[Greetings.]] Mine and my party, of course; of course I do. And lessons here of feminism, when you among your ranks have people who choose counselors according to the size of bra, none. None, Mrs. Capella, none – none –, eh? And lessons from the support we have in Europe, either, because I insist that you have no support from anyone. Well, yes, look at the support you have in Europe: that of the far right. This is the support you have in Europe. [[Greetings.]] This is the support. Lessons from the far right, to say that we agree with the far right, and that you tell me, that it is not only that you agree with Bildu, no, no, no; it is that you have gone on the same lists as Bildu for the European Parliament, eh? [[Greetings.]] It's just that you take pictures smiling with Mr. Otegi, with ETA's political arm. You, look, your partner, Mr. Rufian. More photos. Because you make them very proud. Here, Mr. Torra, too. And you tell me, you're going to give me lessons, Mrs. Capella. [[applause]] The damage you're doing? Look who they choose as partners – look who they choose as partners. Of course. He also told me that I come here and use what language... Of course, after seeing the answer given yesterday by Mr Torra, who said here that the Government, the Government, said « fuck; « fuck, an expression that, well, is of a parliamentary decor that pulls back. It's just that honestly... [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm going to ask you again – I'm going to ask you again –: do you condemn any of these articles...? [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.131.0	Shut up, everybody.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.132.0	Thank you, President. Do you condemn any of these articles, these words, these barbarities that Mr. Torra writes? And he didn't do it in the past, no, no, because this is what Mr. Torra thinks today, and proves it every time he has the slightest chance: when he gave a decoration like the Cross of Sant Jordi to the greatest supremacist of the kingdom, Mrs. De Gispert, who dedicates herself to sending my colleague Inés Arrimadas to Jerez every two by three. [[Greetings.]] And Mr. Torra rewards her; she rewards her for supremacist. This is what you are doing here in Catalonia and this is the Catalonia you want, a Catalonia... By the way, it tells me that I look with the eyes of a ruler for all Catalans; do so, because there is a half of Catalonia that you don't even see and don't even consider us just Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.133.0	When he wants to, he'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.134.0	Well, they can go on repeating a lie a thousand times that's not turning into a truth. [[Greetings.]] Look, I don't come here to explain what my past is and what my present is and what my future will be. And, look, I'm not here to explain where I'm coming from, and now my life is public. But anyway, I've been working for rights and freedoms for many years. To you, in many of the causes in which we find ourselves many people from many years ago, to you, I have never found it; therefore, explanations, few. Their problem is that they do not tolerate either freedom of expression or freedom of information, or rights or freedoms, because they disturb them. Public space, you talk about being neutral. In a democracy..., I will repeat it a thousand times, in a democracy the public space is not neutral because in the public space it is necessary to pass everything that the citizenry aspires and wants it to pass. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mrs. Roldan, yes. I'll explain it to you because you, in this... always cheat on your explanation. In the public space – in the public space – that is the space of all, we must move from everything to democracy; the neutral public space is the proprio– proprio– of dictatorships. I say, I remember, because like you're young, you don't know that anyway. And you're the professionals of chrispay – you're the professionals of chrispay. Pau, freedom, coexistence and cohesion are good to preserve that you do not preserve. Because you're always on fire. Where there isn't... where we're able to debate politically, publicly, in all spaces, you don't do it. They have no shame. You don't have any shame. You shouldn't have. And if the faces were ashamed, you wouldn't repeat the expressions that were wrong and right repeated in the diary. And, look, unlike you, it's you who's been through these last elections in the municipal elections. What happened to them? What happened to them in Catalonia? You don't do an analysis of what you've been through with politics in the assembly of Catalonia? What happened to them? What representation do you have? – which representation do you have? This is the reflection of Catalan society, which you should not take note of. Catalan society is strong enough, yes – yes, yes –; it is strong enough to distinguish and where is the difference between those who say – you– the seekers and the reality that is seen every day. Yes, yes; you are the seekers: day by day, all the way, keep the fire where they are going. Because you– you– where they feel comfortable... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.135.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.136.0	...and where they feel comfortable is always in the confrontation and in the pursuit of daily work. And you're back here doing a... the folding, huh? We were, the dropper, I'll show you. Mirin, at such short notice. That day they said... you said we said... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, Mrs. Roldán, you have a bad suit – you have a bad suit. Read, I read enough, sure from what soc will advise not as much as I would like. And you use it to show and say, "What's up? What do the communication media say? So today you've caught an article, which you're very much upset about getting well, and they're saying things that none of the people you've assigned and said have ever said. Look, I'll repeat it another time: a repeated lie a thousand times is not converted into a truth. And you... I'll insist on another matter. Look at what representation you have in Catalonia at the meetings – look at what representation you have in Catalonia at the meetings. And also ask yourself who's hand you're going to join the Spanish State. Ask the question, look at the look and answer the question: can you go from the hand of those who deny that women patim to daily violence of different ways? Can you go hand in hand, in the assemblies, those who deny what happened during the Civil War and the franchise? The ones who are being betrayed today... and putting the names of the Francos on the streets and streets of Andalusia are you. It's you who go from the hand of the extreme right. So, please analyze what they say and what they do. And, therefore, they have already seen it, the Catalan society has put them to you in the place that corresponds to them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.137.0	Thank you, Counselor. Before going to the next point I see with obligation, in the course of this debate..., I did not want to stop the debate when it occurred, but it is true that there was, Mrs Roldán, an expression that did exceed the limits that we marked with the spokespersons when referring to an expression from the Parliament. Therefore, I ask you to either remove the expression or the matise, this expression that you have served and that you know perfectly well which one I refer to, Mrs Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.138.0	Yes, thank you, President. They learn from this observation that you have made me... of course, it is that I do not find another adjective to refer to the words of Mrs De Gispert, who more than anything else I would like to remind you that she has failed for this Parliament precisely for these expressions, which I am very sorry to say to her - but they are supremacists. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.139.0	No, no, listen to me, you know that, as a result of the agreement, one thing is to refer to..., and to qualify some particular words and the other is to qualify the person. And you qualified the person. That's why he asked you to kill him. I understand that it explains that they were the words and not the person. Therefore, I understand that Matisa expressed the expression he made in the Faristol. All right. [[Widow's remorse.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into its political direction]] [[302-0120/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The next point is the motion following the question to the Government about its political direction, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word Mr. Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.140.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Well, today we have a motion following last week's inquiry, which provoked a great controversy for the precise reading of the texts that my colleague Lorraine Roldán has just repeated. It is important in a democratic society to reiterate everything that for many of us is unacceptable in the case of a normal society, in the case of a society that wants to live together, that is respectful of its plurality, it is important to remember that it has no sense, that it is absolutely unworthy to have as President of the Generality someone who has the trajectory that it has, who has said the things that he has said about his fellow citizens, about the people who speak Spanish in general. His loss to the Catalans that we are not separatists and to the rest of the Spaniards is an absolutely intolerable, absolutely unacceptable thing. Therefore, I believe that it is our obligation, that of the deputies of Ciutadans, and that it should also be that of the deputies of other groups, that as long as they do so on other occasions they avoid their responsibility to constantly remember what makes this society a worse society. And the presidency of Mr. Torra and his investiture as President of the Generality made the Catalan society worse, without any doubt. In this motion we carry a sequence of points that are especially important for us, for example, the first one, for example, that we ask, Mr President, for your reading before the vote, which is the point that you say that the Parliament of Catalonia condemns the intolerable and unjustifiable acts of violence and hatred and the masculinist attacks on citizens, elected officials and authorities, which took place during the day of the constitution of the mandate in the local corporations of 15 June. We've done some business, we've accepted some stuff. Even this is a totally accepted statement by the Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, because we consider that the accuracy of the masclist attacks, which effectively took place in the constitution of the Barcelona Assembly by organized groups, radicals, extremists, separatists, were absolutely intolerable. And we believe that a healthy society... and we want to, that our public debate is a debate, a debate, a peaceful debate, we ask precisely that Parliament is to rule on what I have just said. Anyway, I want to make a point that I think is perfectly relevant and proceeding in the coming of our Parliament and, ultimately, in the normal functioning of a parliamentary chamber, which is to refer to what Mrs Capella just said when she was referring to Ciutadans as a search-and-reason or search-and-reason. I couldn't help it, honestly – and I am saying this to you with absolute regret, with great regret and with great basis –, looking at my group companion, Mrs Laura Vílchez, who is the third secretary of this Parliament and, therefore, an authority in Catalonia, who took the day of the constitution of the Sabadell Assembly for a stroke of incense. There were a lot of objects that came from radicals, extremists, separatists, yes, indeed, that did not tolerate plurality, that did not tolerate the diversity of a society like ours. He was given a shot at the head, by a concrete encinder, a encinder who could have done him a lot of harm on that occasion. I remember his image raising the incenser and showing our attitude, that it is our attitude, that we would always be ahead of his totalitarian pretensions, of his pretensions to turn Catalan society into a homogeneous society, in which there are no discrepancies and a society in which one disagrees is considered a seeker. No, Mrs. Capella, it's not looking for jobs, it's simply wanting to respect the plurality and diversity of Catalan society. That's what democracy is about. [[Greetings.]] About our supposed pacts, etc., I think we should get to things. And here who has a coalition – an electoral coalition – with a party that is the political arm of a terrorist gang are you, Mrs. Capella, Republican Left. [[Greetings.]] And since I've had one minute left and I've spoken a little bit of a personal key, I want to remind you that the fact of putting down and claiming the killing of Parachutes in Cordoba has nothing to do with fascism. Please, let's stop distorting reality. To recognize an indignity, an injustice, a horror that passed through the time of the Civil War, has absolutely nothing to do with fascism. And there is precisely a person who has a special relationship with Cordoba, because concretely I have a tit, a tit besavi, which is said by Vicente Martín Romera, who was ousted by the tropes of Queipo de Llano in the year 36. He was a man who was a member of the Corts for the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol and was shunned for the Lord..., or for the beast of the Lord Queipo de Llano – this yes, a beast in human form, not as the Lord Torra says. So I'm just saying this, what we're doing is precisely trying to keep the memory of Spain in its full breadth and what you're trying to do is make a one-way memory. And, therefore, we will not be in this history, in this pretence of yours, and what we will do will always be to defend democracy in Catalonia and the conjunct of Spain. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.141.0	To defend the papers presented has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.142.0	Yes, from the escho. Thank you, President. First of all, to say that we share the writing of the young man, that we appreciate the fact that our papers have been accepted. And I'll explain it to them, make it five cents. The first speaks of the need to regain Catalonia's presence in multilateral bodies where autonomous communities are present. Basically for a reason, because we haven't seen it in a while. And there it is about finance, there it is about sanitation, things that interest Catalans and it turns out we don't see it. And that's always talking about the while, while the republic up and not up, which never up, turns out that in this interregnum Catalonia has no presence in these organs where, I insist, is making important decisions for the conjunction of Catalans. The second point, I won't go too far because it's a very well-known issue that I wanted to contribute to enriching the text, is to guarantee the neutrality of buildings and public spaces. I insist, you know perfectly well what we're talking about. And finally also, a later thought in the sense that it's been a long time, but more still after the last statements, gestures that the president of the ANC has made, less absolutely intolerable from journalists only because of being Spanish and things like..., it must be broken once and for all the relationship as the interlocutor preferring the government of Catalonia to the ANC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.143.0	Then there is the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.144.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, now fifteen days ago, Mr Nacho Martín asked him a question on the political direction, in which he spoke from our point of view very little, on the part of the questioner, but also on the part of the Government, about concrete or useful questions for the conjunction of the citizenry. I think it was an inquiry... before the counselor gave us a definition of "searchers, huh? And I let him, with all the sympathy I have with the councillor, that we have the impression that Esquerra Republicana, that Junts for Catalunya, that Ciutadans, that Ciutadans, Esquerra Republicana and Junts for Catalonia are returning the process, a process that has not brought us anything good. All the contrary, the Administration has stopped, the legislative production has stopped, the political debate, the reforms that our country needs before the challenges that we have. For example, in this House we have talked a lot about climate change. Clearly, this is a need that the country has to address and face, or inequality grows, or our economic reptiles. And we believe that the Government of Catalonia, the Government of President Torra and Vice President Aragonès is a government that does not come out of its comfort zone, from that comfort zone that is only a declaratory zone, huh? , and little legislation, little executive action in concrete terms. We have denounced – and we follow it, and we do it every day – that the government begins to show signs of fatigue, even internal mistrust among coalition partners; that it exhibits a remarkable lack of shared strategy; that it is unable to fix a reasonable time of legislature, that it only seems to worry about those who share the object of independence or for those faithful followers of the process, who are still waiting for it to take it full of route. They divide the city. Just look at that part of the city that gives them recollection; they only address the independenceists. And I already recognize them that they're a lot. Now, the government has to rule all over the country, for all the citizens and the citizens, because I want to remind them and I want to emphasize that if you are a lot of other people, too, as many as you and a little bit more – and a little bit more, huh? – that the election has been shown to be re-election. We also give them – and we repeat them every time we have an opportunity – that we have to respect the laws. And that the laws can be changed through other laws, respecting the change mechanisms of these laws. And I'm not just telling you this deputy, it's that recently the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights has also clearly stated to you that this Parliament, which the majority of the government coalition cannot skip the laws as you did. She said to us: "Public space does not have to be neutral or it is not. Look, I can end up matching that definition. Now, what must be neutral are the buildings and public institutions, because they answer not only a part of society, but they answer and they must answer to the assembly of the citizenry, which you do not do. And they can't misrepresent facts and languages like you do all day. We've got plans. Some of us have come to terms, some of us haven't. I've already announced that in a few points we'll abstain – we'll ask for a separate vote from points 2.b, 2.c and 2.g – because we think they don't fit the reality of the facts or like the way they've written to us. Because if we really want to end the conflict, we have to help this conflict to end. And that's all we can do is talk, talk, and, if we don't agree, keep talking. And we have the impression that the Ciutadan Group is also comfortable in this comfort zone in which it has settled, which is precisely the bargain, as well as the rest of the groups that support the Government. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.145.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mr Marc Parés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.146.0	Well, thank you, President. Members, Members, well, you have made an intervention in which you have spoken only of the first point of the motion, a point which we will gather, in which you have accepted our motion, because we actually understand that you must condemn all forms of hatred, come from where you come, but you have not developed the rest of the motion, a motion in which you question the political direction of the Government. Well, what seems like an evidence to us is that just what this government doesn't have is direction, isn't it? It's a government that doesn't rule and that doesn't know where it wants to carry the country, not as much as making it move forward. And Catalonia is a country that needs to move forward, that needs to get out of this atzucac where they brought us between each other. And that is why it is necessary to diagnose well, recognize and listen to the arguments of all parties, propose solutions that respond to the longings of the vast majority of Catalan society and be willing to move 'to find a way out. And, with all the humility, I have to tell you that we understand that the political direction you are planting, the political direction of Ciutadans, is not at all in this direction. Because you were born to end the great consensus of political Catalanism on which the Catalonia of the end of the 20th century had been built, which was the Catalonia mestissa and which is recognized as a_sol poble, the Catalonia based on the model of linguistic immersion and, above all, the one in which Catalonia is recognized as a political subject with right to self-government. And his political strategy is that of permanent confrontation. And show it a little more with most of this young man's points, and that's why we'll vote against it. But it's that you don't propose, you don't have a proposal, you don't have a proposal, you don't have a proposal, you don't have a proposal, you don't have a proposal, you don't have a proposal for Catalonia, you don't have a proposal for Spain. To continue, to remain anchored in the 78's is not a solution to the political conflict that we have ahead. But they also have them from other groups: the hardest part of all this is that it seems to you that this is already good, because you have no interest in resolving this conflict, because you live just from this conflict. And, look, I'm showing you the thought that our group introduced you to point 2.e of the motion and that you didn't want to accept or compromise. From its wording, that we would have done it this way, but in any case... well, among other things, because it is not true what you say, that the Government of the Generality emanates from the Constitution of 78. The Generalitat existed long before, and in fact it was restored to year 77, before the Constitution. But in any case, starting from its writing, we proposed that we "encourage the Government of the Generality to govern throughout the country, with the dialogue as the only way to resolve the political conflict and giving up the DUI. What's wrong with this writing? What's the problem with this writing we've been proposing? The dialog word, perhaps? Is that really the problem? Is that what bothers them? Look, we said by active and passive that the DUI was not the way to move Catalonia forward, especially because it left Catalonia behind, but also because it was a way without going out, it was to take the country to stand against a wall, and unfortunately at this time we thought that this was already evidence. Now, we will not give up looking for a way out of this conflict, we will not give up building a better country for our children, because we do not want to deny the right to the generations we were born in democracy and the future generations that will come, the right to be able to join and build a better country. And that goes so far as to say that there is no solution if we are not able to overcome the constitutional and statutory framework in force. And this can only be done from the dialog, from the accord and, in any case, giving the view to the people of Catalonia, because it can be expressed in reference. We conceive of sovereignty as divisible, and we understand that it can be shared, because it is precisely they recognize the sovereignty of the different national realities and, at the same time, articulate and share this sovereignty between different scales and levels of government as we can give better answers to the great problems of the 21st century, problems of global nature, with causes and consequences that are expressed at the local level. And I'm done. For us, democracy is freedom of expression, it is right to protest, yes, to public space, that it is a political space, and that precisely because it is of all of us we need to be able to express all of us. And let us not forget that many of the social, civil, political and democratic conquests have been achieved precisely thanks to protest, mobilization and, yes, also thanks to the civil disobedience of manifestly unjust laws. All right, all right, As I said, we will vote against most of the points, we will vote in favour of the first of the points. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.147.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jenn Díaz has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.148.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, I start with the principle: condemn masclist commentaries, always; condemn acts of violence and hate, always, always, always; no doubt. "The Parliament of Catalonia condemns any act of violence and hate against elected officials, authorities or citizens in general, where the Vílchez company would also enter, and we would vote for it. We could also vote in favour of the expression of the company of the commons, without the word 'violation'. The wording of Ciutadans and the modification of the commons, we know very hard, we cannot accept them. From Ciutadans we had hoped for it, but it's hard for us to know that the commons have somehow endorsed it, with this aim and their vote, no more or less than the tax theory. I don't know if they're aware that we have companies and companies playing long years in prison, some here sure, their companies also, for this science-fiction report in which all protest is rape. We cannot vote in favour of it, although we would like to be able to effectively condemn the male commentaries and the to, which we do not share. We understand, however, that at this first point, as it has remained, we have no more reason to vote against it, and it is very hard for us, I insist, to use a just cause, this sentence, to criminalize protest and independence movement, and we do not fall for it. On the second point, it is true that Mr. Nacho Martín Blanco spoke above all of the first point, on the second, which has many subpoints, very easy: not everything – everything. Don't take our hair, please. We respect each other, disagree, agree, debate on politics, and, if we want to talk about the political direction of Catalonia, take note: of the fifty-eight initiatives that Ciutadans has presented this legislature – only this one – and that carry the word "neutrality, they have approved exactly zero. Despite everything, they come back, they come back to propose, for the future of Catalonia, crispacia, confrontation and fracture. It's normal that he's still asking the next day what the political direction of the country is, because they don't listen and get away with their arsonist politics, and they don't find any aliases in place. I will give you an example: the motion presented by the commons' companions, with a title that said "on the recovery of the great consensuss for Catalonia to advance. Do you know what happened to that young lady? That we discussed it, that we were purposeful, that we looked for a way to hear 'us, opposition groups, and also the groups that we support the government. Do you know what the result of the vote was? Approved. Do you know what the difference is between that young man and the fifty-four parliamentary initiatives presented for you? That they have no intention of bringing, of building, of pacting, of dialogue, or of looking forward to and certainly seeking the answer to the question 'what is the political direction of Catalonia? The quick answer to this question is very simple: the Republican Group accepts that the political direction and future of Catalonia pass by the will of the citizens and citizens of this country; this is the quickest and most immediate answer. The long answer is that while you come to set the institutions on fire, while the State continues to block politics and turn it into a legal revenge, the citizens of this country remain silent. You, who are the opposition, are effectively responsible for your voters, but also for the rest of the country, exactly as we are, exactly as the government. We have a responsibility and, at the front, a challenge: to answer in truth, like adult people, responsible and conscious, what is the future of Catalonia. You have to sort out, and you have already done, from the side of those who propose and build or those who burn and crash the atmosphere. I'd like to kill some of the points they've put forward and we'll vote against them because they offend us. They're talking about the discrimination of Spanish. I'll make them the translation of your point 2.c. You want, and you show us every day, that the català is an indispensable language, that it is not necessary, you want the català to be a language with ideology, and you make a mistake: the català is not a language with ideology, but it is a political language, from the moment they banned it during the franchise, from the moment the castle was imposed on the citizen of this country. Catalan culture and Catalan culture have become a political tool at the same time as limiting, suppressing and coercing it. And they don't have to convince me of the bounties of the castle, of the richness of Catalonia, of the mestissage of our culture, because we are great defenders, and we don't want our militancy in the catalá, and we do the Catalans speaking and, above all, the Spanish-speaking, who, if we don't militate in the catalá, in the aniquile and in the we want to reduce to the domestic environment, exactly as they want to do with the masculist violence. To finish, a council. Many initiations on political rumb and neutrality, many initiations talking about the process, a lot of work, you, the institutions, to fight independence, and neglect your political space. I recommend you, if I may have a council, to devote all these efforts to making a reasonable, responsible opposition. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out]] – I'm sorry, Mr President – to talk to Macron, to rethink his pacts, to explain to Mr. Nart and Mr. Roldán that more to the right they will find nothing and to inform well Mr. Valls that they have always been like this: a political party...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.149.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.150.0	...no proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.151.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francesc of Dalmases has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.152.0	Thank you, President. They ask him for a few seconds of indulgence, because yesterday, when we went and returned from Lledoners, they came to the head the words of Ponç Pons that say: "Now look at the groaning forest, because indeed, 98 Bages, Berguedà and Solsones were black, they were full of ashes, and, unfortunately, yesterday they were green. And our commitment, that of this Parliament, that of our parliamentary group, and I hope that everyone, with the Lands of the Jews, with the Garrigues and the Segria is that their people and their lands will live again between green and blue. [[Greetings.]] And now it is. Mirin, on July 24, 2018, in Pere Comín died in Louvain, died far from the hospital, far from his home, so that he could be at the side of his family, his brother, Councilor Comín, who saw him because he is a political exile. And that same year, four days ago, June 19, the father of Councillor Puig died; he could not accompany his father nor his family, nor in the last hours, nor at the funeral, nor at burial, nor at death, because it is a political exile. But the day after his father's death, Councilman Puig declared by videoconference from Brussels, before the Osca Instructional Judgement No. 3, in the case of the works of Sixena. Counselor Puig is accused of a crime of disobedience for not having accepted the transfer to Aragó of the forty-four works that were moved from the Museum of Lleida during the application of 155, following the indications of the experts. Look, when political adversaries are submissive to inhuman situations, they are no longer considered political adversaries, they are considered enemies to defeat, and this is already out of the political field. And, in view of continuing this escalation of toilets that we often have, today I would like to ask them, I would like to propose them, perhaps their electorate could demand that they return to politics. You've been protecting them, but you don't have a right, and we defend the right to self-determination, the supporters of Catalonia's independence, we have a right and we don't have a right. This same week we had two internationally renowned experts who endorsed it. This same week we also experienced the return of the political prisoners and the political prisoners who remind us once more of the absolute democratic exceptionality, the state of democratic exception in which we live. With what? How do they put us to bed? With dialogue? How do they talk? Maybe we could take a picture of the country first. Do you know how many joints the independence forces add up to? Juntes per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya and the CUP 748 of 947– 748 of 947–, almost new_of_each_of the country's assemblies with mayors and independent mayors. And we should add the Barcelona Assembly that also a more voted list was independent, but the common friends preferred to agree with Valls and the PSC. And what happened to Europe? The round, unappealable victory of President Puigdemont that added to the magnificent results of Vice President Junqueras total 2,300,000 people who were betting for independence candidates. The figures, the reality is very rough, and you, who are actually the main group of opposition that they think they are doing? What's the political decision? Here is a block, an extremely insensitive block with human patience – and we will repeat them and we will continue to tell them – but above all insensitive to a political reality that corresponds with a social majority that neither the Borbo nor Rajoy nor Sanchez nor Llarena nor Marchena will make disappear. They live in a country with millions of people who want to do politics, who want to make progress in politics, and you insist on signaling them the path of exile and the path of imprisonment. What country disaster do they want to build by eliminating the opponents that ballot boxes swallow? What concept of democracy do they have to insist that they win the vote or the court that denies them the ballot box? Miri, you often speak with pride and with certainty of the 1,100,000 Catalans who trusted them in 2017, but this year at the municipal level – 2019 – trust has made them, which is a magnificent number, 277,000 Catalans and Catalans, but it also means that three_of_each_four people who voted for them in 2017 did not vote for them in 2019. It can only be that beyond this exhausting, repetitive and lying song, his electorate, his people are saying: "Do politics, seek solutions. Because they already know that we will vote against them, that it is politically insubstantial that they have presented and that we are types of wasting time repeatedly with what they know will not prosper. And we already know what they think, look to get out of the hamster wheel where they're installed and look to hear that they think those who don't think like you and do politics. When they identify this magnificent name of Members who have, do politics, we give it to them without any irony, without any hesitation, do politics. His electorate and the assembly of the Catalan society will greatly appreciate it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.153.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next and to fix his position has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.154.0	The Constitution, the raison d'état, the territorial unit for the guarantee of civil, social and political rights and for the sake of the will of the citizenry. Is it how catastrophic it seems to you that we can count? That we can celebrate a referendum that is a radically democratic tool that has not been linked to any political program and in which it can decide everyone, also those who vote for you? This is where the conflict is wrong, because they serve the sacrosanct Constitution as they do to achieve the popular will. Why don't they want the city to make its own decisions and decide its present and its future? What's more democratic than that? That they do not see that the Constitution is not only no guarantee of the right to self-determination, but also no guarantee of social rights as essential as access to the right to housing or, for example, access to a universal sanitation system? We clearly condemn the masculinist insults and insults in general that have been given in the acts of constitution to the assemblies, but vigilant, is that it is very dangerous to banish the concept of hatred. Who decides what's hate and what's not hate? The same ones they accused for a crime of hate have eight masters of the Urgell Su? The ones who held a master of a Tremp institute for hate crime? Or the very ones who chased two veins for a hate crime just to hang and comment on photos of October 1st? The Supreme Court has been hearing a judgment that judges civil and political rights very important for any democratic state. The Benet before the Supreme Court explained this very well: "If the exercise of fundamental rights is judged, the institutions will convey the message that exercising our rights can be dangerous. We, while injustice takes the form of law and judicial resolutions, will continue to disobey and reveal us with due diligence. When we do this again today, we do not do it as a challenge, we do it by conviction, by honouring the suffragists, the vaguists, the insubmissive with the military, our seas and republican avies, to whom they incurred costs for the conquest of rights, also for those who today are the crew of the Sea Watch and the Open Arms, who are disobeying the strong states, for those who are forced to follow this plethora from exile and from prison. Thank you, thank you so much. "Disobedience is the original virtue of man. Progress has been made through disobedience and rebellion. Oscar Wilde. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.155.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally to position himself on the exams, has the word the deputy Mr Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.156.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, telegraphically. Here have been various things said; first of all there has been talk of exile, Mr Dalmases speaks of exile, I say one thing, Mr Dalmases, for the most part, the vast majority of the citizens of Catalonia and the rest of Spain, talking about exile and ascribe it to what Mr Puigdemont has done is an offence. It is an offence that you compare the situation of Mr. Tarradellas to the situation of Mr. Puigdemont. Mr. Tarradellas had to leave because there was a totalitarian rule in Spain. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Puigdemont has escaped from Spanish justice...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.157.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.158.0	... because he gave it his will, if he should not have been submissive to the responsibilities he had assumed, and had been submissive to justice with any other city. [[Greetings.]] One thing that is very important to me and, moreover, it connects with one of the things that the deputy of Catalonia in Communal and also the deputy of the Party of Socialists..., the fairness must be very comfortable, the fairness of not identifying the excesses and barbarities that nationalism commits with the linguistic pluralism of Catalonia, with the diversity of Catalan society, with noticing those who do not think like the separatists, must be comfortable. Then things happen that end up affecting you and then the clothes disappear as if nationalist thinking is total. But in any case, you will know if you want to continue with this equidistance, which is really a curious equidistance. On the matter, which I believe is important, you have spoken... Mrs. Jenn Diaz, with all due respect, has spoken of the claim of some to annihilate the Catalan language. Miri, we, from Ciutadans, what we want precisely is a trilingual model in which there is a balanced presence of the Catalan and the Castle, which are the two languages of the Catalans, and also of the English. You, the one who wants to..., and, if you want to, we make a serene, peaceful debate about which you want each. You want a monolingual model in Catalan, which is linguistic immersion; we want a trilingual model in Catalan, Spanish and English. What's the best model? What does Catalan society prefer? What you do when you want to take your children to the concerted schools, which are many times bilingual or trilingual...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.159.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.160.0	...or its monolingual model which excludes and discriminates the majority language of Catalans. Ask him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.161.0	Congressman, time's up. [[Pause.]] Thank you. [[Greetings.]] We called for a vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mrs. Segovia, why ask me the word? Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.162.0	We would ask you to vote on item 1 and 2.a, which you could vote on together; 2a, 2d and 3, which you could vote on together, and that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.163.0	2a, 2.b, sorry, and 2..., finally?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.164.0	2.d and 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.165.0	2.d., from Denmark?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.166.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.167.0	I 3, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.168.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.169.0	All right. [[Jordi Terrades and Santacreu ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Terrades...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.170.0	Yes, to ask for a separate vote on point 2.b, 2.c and 2.g.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.171.0	What can they vote together? Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mrs. Roldán, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.172.0	Mr President, to ask for the reading, not only of point 1, which has already been indicated by my partner, but also of point 2, apart from d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.173.0	All right. In any case, for what it does to the votes, and as I have noted, we would vote for point 1 for one band, point 2e bis for the other, 2.a, 2.d and 3 in one block, and 2.b, 2.c, 2.g in another block. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. So let's go first to reading. As far as reading point 1 and point 2.d is concerned, we read these two points and then we will vote for them. The secretary is asked to read the two points, and then we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.174.0	"The Parliament of Catalonia condemns the intolerable and unjustifiable acts of rape and hatred, and the masculinist attacks on the citizenry, elected officials and authorities, which took place during the day of the constitution of the mandate in the local corporations on June 15. I point 2.d: "The Parliament of Catalonia urges the Government to comply with and enforce the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia which allows it to be the Government of the Generalitat, and to renounce to reiterate, ratify, implement and/or implement the DUI and/or the so-called disconnection laws.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.175.0	Let's start voting for point 1 of the vote, point 1 of the vote. The vote begins. The first point of this motion was rejected by 63 votes in favour, 66 against and no abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.e bis– 2.e bis. The vote begins. Point 2.e bis was rejected by 63 votes to 66, with no abstentions. And now we vote on points 2a, 2.d and 3, together – 2a, 2.d and 3. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Terrades, I told you if in bulk and you told me you did. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, we'll vote them later. The next block – I said this – we made the rest of the blocks, Mr Terrades, and I said a block with 2a, 2d and 3, which is what the parliamentary group of the commons asked me, and you asked me 2.b, 2.c and 2.g, and I asked him if together, and he said yes. Therefore, it is the bloc that we will continue to vote on. Okay? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right. In any case, this bloc, which corresponded to item 2a, 2d and 3, was rejected by 43 votes in favour, 66 against, 8 abstentions and 8 non-voting Members. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Terrades, I've repeated the voting pattern twice or three times. I've been told I do. We voted for this bloc, I repeated it two or three times before we voted for it, and we voted, Mr Terrades. Now we will not repeat the vote. What we're doing now is voting on the block you asked me to, which is 2.b, 2.c and 2.g. Therefore, we vote 2.b, 2.c and 2.g, which is what you asked me, Mr Terrades. [[Jordi Terrades and Santacreu ask to speak.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.176.0	In any case, I want to ask you for a few moments to explain the vote we were about to take.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.177.0	Okay. We vote on this block, and then you make the explanation of vote that you think is appropriate. So let's vote on this last block: 2.b, 2.c and 2.g. The vote begins. This bloc was rejected by 40 votes to 73, with 16 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now, huh? , the rest of the motion remaining to vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 56 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Now yes, Mr. Terrades, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.178.0	Well, anyway, there's been a mistake, because I've confided in d for b. [[Rialles.]] How phonetically he's assembled... And the vote was in favour of the points that made the mistake.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.179.0	All right, Congressman. We'll all be more precise next time, huh? [[Paroles of Comiat with the deputy of María Luz Guilarte Sánchez]] Before it is over, there is a deputy, Mrs. Mari Luz Guilarte, who today has gathered, and has asked, as we have done on other occasions, to have an intervention from the bait in order to be able to take the plenary. Forward, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.180.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. So I would like to thank all the members of this chamber, especially the company of the Commission for Enterprise and Knowledge, with whom I have kept many debates, which have also allowed us to agree. There are many challenges that Catalonia will face, and I would like to welcome all of you asking you to have a broad, inclusive look at the compliment of this responsibility, thinking only of the welfare and interest of all Catalans. Thanks to the staff of this house, for their professionalism and their friendliness. And, with all my heart, my fellow citizens, deputies, and all the technical team. I am able to assume that what I bring are true friends and that every day you have shown me, with your example, what can be done working together and with determination, defending democratic values. Thank you for your courage, for your determination, for your teachings and for your companionship, for your unconditional trust and support, for your always positive spirit and for such good times. That is what really makes the difference in life, and also in politics. I leave this institution, but only to be able to dedicate myself from the city hall and with the same passion to the city of Barcelona and the Barcelonans. That is my vocation, to make good policies for our city, to improve the lives of all Barcelonans, and to continue to defend with the same firmness and conviction the rights and freedoms of all citizens, in front of those who want us unequal. Thank you very much and very much luck to all of you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-27-3402.181.0	Thank you, Congresswoman, for your luck. The Ple was over. The session's up.
