ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.1.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. The session begins. The list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is included in the dossier; according to Rule 164 of the Rules, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item of the order of the day of this plenary session. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before I begin the first point of the order of the day, I must inform you that, according to the official data of the Department of Interior, unfortunately, the last 20 of October killed Vic the seven dead victim of this year for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women..., and to vet for the record and memory of these victims. [[Manifestation of support and condolences to the people of October 22nd]] In the same way, I want to convey today my sense of support and condolences – which I am convinced is that of the joint of the chamber – before the effects caused by the intense aid this morning to various districts of Catalonia and which unfortunately caused a fatal victim and the disappearance of two other people. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] I would also like to inform you that, as a compliment to what the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia establishes, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration from the month of generation, 1,077 people in the Mediterranean have died. [[Asks the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the management of prison competitions]] [[310-00239/12]] The first point of the order of the day are the questions with oral answer to the Government. The first question is about the management of prison competitions, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.2.0	Thank you, President. The first, as in the past, is... to send them all the support and all the recognition to the state security forces and bodies, Mossos, National Police and Civil Guard, for defending coexistence these days. And the question is this. Mrs. Capella, how many prisoners have you visited this weekend to promise freedom after the November 10 elections?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.3.0	To answer, the word has the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella. When he wants to, he'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.4.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my condolences to the people who have lost their lives in relation to the people we have had this past morning. And, Mrs García, honourable Member, I don't promise things I can't do and I don't have to do. So, so, you have to have information that I don't have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.5.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.6.0	Look, Mrs. Capella, you did Mr. Torra's Republican emissary this weekend: you visited the October One prisoners and promised them impunity. In fact, he promised them to come home for Christmas, like the turrones. What I'm saying is that, at the time, as with the case of Oriol Pujol, I told him it was a democratic and legal shame to put Mr. Pujol on the street after only seventy days of his sentence. You, as I was telling you at the time, were doing testicles, testicles with Mr. Pujol, by the time the October One lords' sentence came. He did it, and he did it with two attempts, even one with a course of morals and values, which has his irony, the thing. "No more or one less right. That's what you told me in committee. I agree. But, really, are you telling me that of the 8,367 inmates in Catalan prisons where not even 20_per_cent accesses the third degree, it is normal that less than ten_days of a sentence can be promised freedom to seditious prisoners sentenced to between nine and thirteen years in prison? Are you going to have the defachability to say that the treatment board, which is ultimately made up of professionals, is going to be the one to decide on the matter, when you have already told them to be calm and that they will be home soon? What training are you going to give to seditious prisoners? , respect for the law? , respect for coexistence? , respect for the democratic system? What course are you going to give these prisoners? Because, look, do you think you're not going to put prison officials at risk when you see prisoners that there's differential treatment and riots can be organized in prisons? Yesterday Mr Ábalos, of the Socialist Party, said that they should..., or that they would try to have as interlocutors gentlemen like you, of the Republican Left, because they seemed to him more moderate. Look, you're not moderate, Socialist Party gentlemen. When a government of the People's Party arrives and the powers in prison execution of 150.2 are withdrawn from them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.7.0	Congresswoman, time's up. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.8.0	Well, I don't know if it's due to ignorance or because there's bad faith. Both things know you must be good, so I'd say negative. Ignorance or bad faith. I'll tell you what I can talk about: listen to me, no more right or less right than anyone else, law enforcement. When you do this, listen to me, you're not spending on me; I've told you 25,000 times. You pose and question the work of thousands of public officials who do an extraordinary job, starting with the treatment joints, for the Catalan public workers, you will work from the Administration of Prison Services. I can't tolerate your continuing lying like this. What bothers you? It bothers them that I can say that the political prisoners and the political prisoners have passed on to me – surely, I do not know the only one who says that they are political prisoners and political prisoners – that in his name there is no practice of rape? Does that bother you? Does it bother you that they can be part of the solution? You're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem. And, look, when your political leader, Mr. Married, says what you're saying, what you're saying is that you're making an exception, that with these prisoners and prisoners you're making an exception, don't let the law apply, let another law apply. You say so. They're under arrest and political pressure. Therefore, what we do is complete with the principles that inspire the prison law: reinsertion, resocialization, law enforcement. And the Catalan publics do their job well. And, therefore, you, when you do this, question and admit that you will, which is not the case here. And so, look, I'll tell you one more thing: everything Catalan prison services do is under the supervision of prosecutors and judges. So, don't question it, don't tell lies. I know we're in the pre-election campaign and now you're pressing something else. So, listen, if you really have a state view, a state view, what you should do is not lie permanently. And I won't tolerate you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.9.0	Counselor, time has run out...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.10.0	...continue lying. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.11.0	Thank you. [[Asks the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the effects of international political instability on Catalonia's productive economy]] [[310-00230/12]] The next question is about the effects of international political instability on Catalonia's productive economy, and the formula, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Teresa Pallarès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.12.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honourable President of the Generality, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies, allow me to at first place also show my solidarity with all the people and municipalities affected by the latest episodes of aid to Catalonia, especially in our area– Baix Camp, Priorat, etcetera, Conca –, and agraexi on behalf of the Group of Joints for Catalonia the services of so many people volunteers, for a band, and institutionals– Bombers, Mosos, urban guards, civil protection, joints–, that have bolished this evening to give support and help to the affected ages. These moments of solidarity define our country very well. Yesterday night, in another exhibition of this solidarity, the president of employer Cecot set up the Grand Hall of the National Theatre of Catalonia with a call for freedom for our companies and companies that were undertaken unfairly and disproportionately. It was impressive, and many of us here today were able to live in the first person. This is our Catalonia, with entrepreneurs working and fighting for their competitiveness, for the efficiency of governments and administrations, which gives a response once and for all to their needs, such as the people they were exposing to us today, about infrastructure and energy. Constellera Chacón, we are certainly experiencing very difficult times: an absolutely unfair feeling towards our companies and companies has triggered reactions that have caused a remarkable instability in Catalonia; the lack of will of dialogue on the part of the Spanish executive has sent many Catalans to a scene of frustration where they see that their claims are not escorted or taken into account. Cal, in a blunt way, affirm once and for all that violence can never be a response to a situation we are facing today; only honest and loyal dialogue between administrations and civil society. At the margin of this reality, which we cannot ignore in absolute terms, we must bear in mind that in the international arena there are events that can condition the functioning of our economy and affect Catalan businesses. This Member who is speaking to you and to the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia is concerned about the effect that an exit from the European Union's Kingdom Unit without agreement can have on our economy. Honourable Counselor, we would like to know firsthand what work is being done in order to ensure, foresee and put in place the appropriate measures so that this impact of Brexit on the Catalan productive economy is as little as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.13.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.14.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Maria Àngels Chacón, Consellera d'Empresa i Coneixement. When he wants to, he'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.15.0	President. Deputy. I also attach myself to the support shows and condolences take away the effects of the caretakers and, I also feel this first intervention from the judgment, expressed also its rebroadcast, the support for the sentences and their families. As much as it is intended to judicialize and undertake social or political leaders, they will never silence the sight of a people who want to exercise their rights and freedoms. Taking into account and answering in concrete terms the question, bearing in mind that we have 779 branches in Catalonia, more than 364 Catalan branches in the Kingdom Unit, more than 2,200 regular Catalan exporting companies in the Kingdom Unit, I asked my department – it was already March – that we set aside what we call « Brexit Window, so as to mitigate the impact – as the final scenario continues, we are still moving in a sea of uncertainty – Brexit over all these enterprises in the Catalan product fabric. What's this office doing, an office that's already scrapped more than five hundred consults from more than five hundred businesses? So, a personalized service, go through the Action Office in Barcelona, go through the Action Office in London, so as to help in the advice of the issues that arise. There's also a tool that's self-diagnosis. In less than fifteen minutes, companies may know what degree of risk risk they have for the effects of Brexit. We also offer to accompany, obviously, so as to help diversify markets and all these days that we are doing, so as to inform the effects of the Brexit run of the territory, to follow well to help them. Therefore, from his inn to March, more than five hundred companies have already consulted the office and this is a complement to the office that we already have for more than a year dedicated to the barriers to internationalization, because we want to help companies to open up to the world, trying to solve questions related to customs, tax law, worker mobility, etc. Therefore, this innovative, sustainable, inclusive, world-wide economy is also made through Action and its tools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.16.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the procedures for the analysis and evaluation of police actions]] [[310-00231/12]] The next question is about the procedures for the analysis and evaluation of police actions, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.17.0	Counselor Buch, good morning. I reiterate our solidarity with the people who have suffered directly from the heavy plugs of the last few hours, especially the families of the disappeared and the people who have lost everything. At the edge of these storms, the country continues to be overwhelmed by the pens of a hundred years of prison for the judgment of the U of October, which has removed consciousness. The accumulated political underprivileged, injustice, and anti-repressive speech have been found. That explains the massive response to a feeling that it's barbarity. We have experienced a great mobilization, which the world has observed admired. You, Counsellor Buch, have been assigned to manage the security and exercise of collectible rights, the right of manifestation and order, the public order in a very complex situation. We defend democracy in all spheres, also in that of security, we want a police pula and this deals with some of the images that have been seen and that hurt this idea of modern police, as far as they flee from excesses; act, yes, but always from proportionality. In the same way, we celebrate that President Torra – thank you, President – has proposed the creation of an investigation commission to address all the police action of these last days and I stress the "all, also from the police of Minister Grande-Marlaska, who, according to reports of families of many detainees and detainees, were arrested in a random and arbitrary way, loaded into a van, where they were beaten during the course. If that's true, the behaviour of President Sanchez's police, the president who doesn't take the phone, is more than censorable. That said, Counselor, we thank him that you yourself have asked to appear in this Parliament. Counselor, because we respect our police and value the work of the vast majority of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, two questions. In order to ensure good police practice, will they open dispatchers to determine the excesses that may have occurred? Will the individual responsibilities resulting from these excesses be cleansed, precisely, to protect the vast majority of squadron movements that, we insist, do a lot of work and do a lot of good? Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.18.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.19.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Obviously, as it cannot be in any other way, I also sympathize with all the cities and people who have been through this time last night and announce that, once the control session is over, as I always do, I go to different territories where we have firefighters, and we have moves, and we have civil protection and we ARE NOT working. With regard to the question that I ask, honourable Member, first, what I want is to express the desire for the rapid recovery of the wounded, of the people who have suffered from salvation this week long, as protesters, as police, as well as the journalist's collection, which I express regret that they may have been wounded. Also, as you have done, I want to show you an absolute confidence, once again, in the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. I'm telling you that the Squad's Body has several elements of analysis, obviously one of props, which is that of the devices – they have worked, they haven't worked, as they can improve, as they can prepare the following devices. There is another element of analysis, which is that of staff, workers and workers, movements and movements if they have acted correctly or have not acted correctly, that is framed within a standard framework that is established and, therefore, that, within this framework, they also go for their excellence. And there's a third one, which is the Code of Police Ethics, which is also a code, so it exists in the body and which is also analyzed and is reviewed by the images as a function of this code. But there is also the Syndic of Greuges; the same Parliament, through my appearance; the one who commented yesterday the president, the proposal of this commission; there is public opinion; there are many elements of analysis and self-analysis, of taxation to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. And one proof that I want to give them is that in the last two years, the Squadron Cos has sanctioned 514 officers for bad police practice, of different types, but has made 514 sanctions in the last two years for bad police practice. I think this proves that the body clears responsibility when someone doesn't fit the protocols and the law. Good morning. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.20.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the response to the economic and political crisis in Catalonia]] [[310-00232/12]] The next question is about the answer to the economic and political crisis of Catalonia, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.21.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Vice President, surely, many things in this country are explained by the partisan fist that sees Esquerra Republicana and Junts for Catalonia, to see who will lead the next stage in this country, a partisan fist that leads you to be a Republican Left in the campaign and another to the Government; a Republican Left that, for one band, says that you need to build an alternative to the democratic, social and national crisis that saw the country, and a Republican Left to the Government that does nothing but compete with Junts for Catalonia to see who leads the postconvergent country. A Republican Left who knows that President Torra is not up, but who believes that he can let him do it because institutional degradation can play against Catalonia, but plays him in favor of his electoral expectations, as if the problem were only that the President is not up and not that the whole government, his government, the government Torra-Aragonès, is unable to give solutions to the situation that the country sees. And a Republican Left, hers, that says one thing in the campaign and another to the Government, a party that to Twitter headlines of intolerable the performance of the Mosso d'Esquadra and its connivance with extreme right-wing groups to the city of Barcelona and a party to the Government that has for months held that the Mosso d'Esquadra escorts para-police and philophesis groups to name families without alternative housing in this country. A game that Twitter requires explanations from its Interior Councillor and which, the same day, in Parliament, censors his appearance. And a party that, in the campaign, is demarcated from the president's proposal to resume the unilateral way, but that, from the government, is unable to break alliances to lose a bunch of votes. And a party that from the government says that it can build a cross-respondence to the feeling and that, from Twitter, in the mouth of its spokesman, Mr Gabriel Rufián, says that the best answer is to vote Republican Left on November 10. A question I'll ask you today, which I think is very simple. The first woman, you support, today... is she firm in her support of President Torra as President of the Generality? And, if so, don't you think the spins and opportunism that run your party and Junts for Catalonia affect and denigrate the institutional dignity of the Government of Catalonia? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.22.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.23.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My first words, such as those of the other government companies, are of support, of encouragement and of condolence to the people affected and to the territories affected by the aid of this night. Mr. MP, for accusing of partyism in all of your intervention in the Republican Left, today you have clearly expressed that it is partyism and that it is to carry the electoral campaign in this Parliament, in all of your intervention – in all of your intervention. [[Greetings.]] We are here to give explanations to the government; as the political party, we can do this in an electoral campaign, but, if necessary, we will also explain it. No problem, no problem, honourable Member. It's time to find solutions and my question, as much as you won't be able to answer, unless you take advantage of the two-seconds, is what your proposal is, what your proposal is, apart from charging against this government and charging against the other parties in the chamber. The proposal must be solutions and a political and democratic solution, which is what this country has to face and we must do it once and for all. He could have taken advantage of his intervention to ask the President of the Government of the State to take the phone off, to take the phone off and talk to the Catalan authorities, to talk to the Catalan authorities and to the President of the Generality in the first place. I could have taken advantage of that. It seems that you must have wanted to do Mrs. Colau, I celebrate it perfectly, but you, today, could have done it in this chamber. Yesterday, the government approved an agreement in which it clearly states which is the full route proposed before this situation. In the first place, you need to open dialog and negotiation, with immediate character. There can be no excuses. We believe that the political and democratic solution is the exercise of the right to the self-determination of Catalonia, that each party can put on the table, the institutions of the Generality and the institutions of the State, which are their proposals on the future of Catalonia and we, like the Government of Catalonia, believe that the political and democratic solution is the exercise of the right to the self-determination of Catalonia. Secondly, we reject the Supreme Court's judgment against political prisoners, for injustice, for revenge and for fear, and therefore, we reject it. Thirdly, we condemn all the violence that can be produced and give the scalp to the people who have been affected, whether demonstrators, police, journalists, whoever it is. This is not the path; the path is massive and transversal mobilizations. And in fourth place, a radical defense of the right to freedom of expression and demonstration. And, therefore, this is the path. I, if you want to continue in the electoral campaign, then, but we will propose solutions and try to find a dialogue and political exit to the conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.24.0	Vice President, time is running out. [[Greetings.]] Thank you. [[Asks the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the use of the Generality's presuppositional resources]] [[310-00235/12]] The next question is about the use of the Generality's budgetary resources, and the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.25.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to extend our condolences to the families and friends of the victims of the laughs and support for all the families concerned. Mr. Aragonès, the trial sentence has come out, just as, in his day, the 9-N sentence has come out, and it is believed that, with the trial, some are stealing money from all Catalans. You were Secretary of Economics at the time, and now you are Counsellor of Economics of the Generalitat. That's why I ask you: Will you claim, on behalf of the Generalitat, to the last cent you've stolen?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.26.0	To answer, the deputy president of the government, Mr. Aragonès, has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.27.0	There were no thieves and therefore I cannot answer your question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.28.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.29.0	Mr. Aragonès, don't you really feel responsible? Do you not really want to apologize to the Catalans? You, Mr Aragonès, are most responsible for the finances of the Generalitat. Can you assure me that, at this moment, Catalan money is not being embezzled, that Catalans are not being held in their pockets? Look, Mr. Aragonese, they're squandering Catalan money. Travel to Waterloo, eat in search of international support that you will never have, advisors and theoretic observers treated to the body of king to whom you pay the holidays in Barcelona with the money of all Catalans, websites and sophisticated software to steal and use the personal data of Catalans, thousands of euros in advertising so that TV3 does not stop broadcasting propaganda at any time. They have had the holy nostrils to appropriate social service funds, while families wait more than four years to receive dependency aid. They have had the defachability of taking the resources of education while the students remain in barracks. And they don't care if families have to choose between paying for the children's books, or filling the fridge or paying for the receipt of the light. They squander health resources while more than 150,000 Catalans are waiting for a medical test to find out what's wrong with them. You, Mr Vice-President, are the ones who do not forget or forgive, are you not? Well, now it's time, Mr. Counsellor, to look at the Catalans and ask them to forgive them. Give them their word that they will claim to the last cent, because every euro they appropriate, every euro they embezzle, every euro they dilapidate is a euro at the expense of the suffering of Catalan families. And you know what I'm most outraged about, Mr. Aragonese? That all this I'm telling you, you don't care. For you your process, your irresponsibility, your insolidity is above the suffering of Catalan families. Enough already, stop making Catalan families suffer. Catalan families who are having a bad time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.30.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.31.0	...while you keep going around and around your process wheel. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.32.0	To answer again, the Deputy President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.33.0	Mr. Deputy, before a new type of crime, which is misappropriation without expense, because there has been no expense and the court's judgment is said to be unthankful that there has been no expense and, therefore, use of public funds, it is considered that there is misappropriation, then the way of complaint I do not know how you want us to do it, in this case, if that was relevant. Therefore, before a new type of crime, which is the non-expenditure misappropriation, not the one that goes to the butxaca of those corrupt parties with which you covenant and which you defended until the last moment, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, even voting the assumptions when it was at the point of falling the Gürtel – and so on – therefore, when there is non-expenditure misappropriation, here we enter into a new penal horizon to which to give it an answer, the truth, is extremely complicated. You have entered the electoral campaign, I am pleased, therefore, that you fight a little bit the whole, will be more fun, this debate in Parliament, but asked to claim, we claim: we have 443_million euros– 443_million euros–, twice the assumption of the Department of Culture, which the Government of the Spanish State has collected in VAT from Catalans and Catalans and that we do not recover this year despite our correspondence. We don't get back together, we don't get any other government like ours, we don't get any other autonomous community. And I'd really like it if you'd claimed it. Silences absolutely by Ciutadans. As it was absolutely silent before the data we knew last week, in which the Government of the State notified the Generality that it was liquidating the year 2018 and that it will arrive in July of the year that it sees, and it is equivalent to a 1_percent of GDP, 2,250_million euros that we have had to keep the year 2018 and that we have served to solve many of the problems that you mention, to be able to attend to better families who have a person in a situation of dependency at home or who have a residence, to be able to attend to better education, to be able to attend to better salvation, to be able to attend to better policies of security and to invest in the field of the productive economy. A 1_percent of the GDP that the Spanish State retained, which was recapturing in the year 2018, which was financed at the expense of Catalans and Catalans, 2,250_million euros, and which now tells us: « Esconti'm, at the end of two years, yes, of course, obliged by law, it touches them. So I'd like you to claim all of this – claim all of this. And that, therefore, its Spanish nationalism does not blindly claim to the Government of the State that it is close to Catalans and Catalans. Leave's demagogic and put's work, Mr. Cano. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.34.0	The next question is about citizen security. [[Ask the Government about citizen security]] [[310-00236/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.35.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Buch, good morning. What do you think your own Government has endangered, with its calls for disobedience, the physical integrity of the police and the safety of the citizens of Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.36.0	To answer the question, you have the word "adviser d'Interior", Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.37.0	Thank you, President. An Interior Counselor is not based on lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.38.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.39.0	You will have to raise your membership in a government that bases your entire project on lies, Mr. Buch. Tell me how you can look into the eyes of the wounded agents knowing that it has been the irresponsibility of your Government that has put them in jeopardy. How can you be at the head of security when members of your government cut off highways, do not report violent actions or have 7_million_and_average Catalans kidnapped because they do not like a court decision. What do you intend to call calm, when the greatest agitator in Catalonia sits on his left? Someone we have already said is undoubtedly the leader of the CoR, who is an arsonist and is a person who cannot follow any more _minutes to the head of this government. Make no mistake, your movement is not peaceful, it has never been. They have always used harassment, they have always used marking, they have always used persecution to which we think differently. We have already told you, you are not beings of light, you are not Mandela, you are not Luther King, you are not Gandhi, you are not Rosa Parks, you are those of the Slovenian way, you are those who open offices of protection to the violent in Girona, instead of demanding you to pay for the flaws and you are those who applaud suspected terrorism in this Parliament. Mr. Buch, the just causes are defended face to face, they are not defended with hoods or throwing customs to the police. And look, I think your government simply represents the most radical, the acid, the steel balls and the fire. His decades of nationalist lies have led to frustration and frustration has led to the violence that we are seeing these days on the street in Catalonia. But today I want to send a message of hope from here to all those Catalans who go with their faces uncovered and their heads very high, to all those who, instead of questioning the police, pay tribute to them. Because I am sure that your Government has gone deep and that, beyond you, we will be able to recover Catalonia from freedoms. Look, right now all of Catalonia is asking for your resignation, they're even asking for your government partners, Republican Left. I am not going to ask for your resignation because I consider that the blame goes beyond you, the blame extends to all your coup government, so we are going to ask that the Constitution be applied, that 155 be applied and that all of you be stopped for endangering security and coexistence. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.40.0	To answer, the inside counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.41.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Mr. Member, I believe that neither opportunism, nor electoralism, nor photo politics, nor destructive politics, nor the nervousness of some of these I believe that they give him right to make the intervention he has made. So, if you have any questions... [[Greetings.]] If you have any questions, I'll write them down and I'll answer them. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.42.0	The next question... [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Quiet. [[Ask the Government about the motivations that have prevented access to information on the relationship of visits by members of the Government and other branches of the Administration of the Government or the public sector depending on the prisons Madrid I, Madrid II, Madrid V, Madrid VII, Lledoners, Puig de les Basses and Mas d'Enric of May 15, 2018]] [[320-00709/12]] The next question is about the reasons that have prevented easier access to information on the relation of visits by members of the Government and other branches of the Administration of the Generality or the public sector depending on the penal centers Madrid I, Madrid II, Madrid V, Madrid VII, Lledoners, Puig de les Basses and Mas d'Enric of May 15, 2018. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Munia Fernández-Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.43.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Capella, can you explain to us why we have not been given the number of visits to Catalan and Madrid prisons by senior officials of your Government to prisoners already convicted of embezzlement and sedition?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.44.0	To answer, the word has the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.45.0	Thank you, President. The honourable Member, well, we, like the Government of Catalonia, are in compliance with the Law of Transparency and we have given them the information that, in addition to the Law of Transparency, I can give them. We always answer in time and form all the questions and requests for information that you make to us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.46.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.47.0	Mrs. Capella, that's why we have the cover of the Bureau, for not answering. This information we have repeatedly asked of you and from you we have received silence, displicity and, on many occasions, arrogance, as now. Look, citizens have the right to know the absolute discrimination that exists in Catalan prisons towards those inmates who are not their friends in the process. Any mother or father who has a prisoner has to do with impotence how his friends receive up to fifty visits a day, how they last much longer than their children receive, how he is not assisted by private doctors, or how the regular time in the courtyard is. It is unfair, Mrs. Capella, that there have been prisoners with pedigrees for the mere fact of being their political party comrades. But we are not surprised at anything, from nationalism inequality is always born. You are the heirs of the evil that devastated the Europe of the twentieth century and do the same: you point out businesses and people, you spy on children in school, you make lists of good and bad. Ah, it's also true that in something they are innovating lately, there are autonomous community presidents who are dedicated to cutting highways so that people can't go freely. And in prisons? Internals with pedigrees. And the rest, humiliated. Poor people and officials who don't dance to their water, because through these free officials, who are then punished, we find out about this information. And all because they continue with their plan: to continue with the coup that began in 2017. It now touches privileges for prisoners with pedigree and soon, very soon, open the cell for them to go home with the damage they have done to all Catalonia. You don't hide, but neither do we. It is urgent to recover the prison powers of this community by the state, if not, Torra – Mr. Torra – will open, will open the doors for them to leave, probably to help you in the next blow, because surely the experience is a degree. It is enough to laugh at the faces of all the Spaniards and to humiliate the inmates who serve their sentences in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.48.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.49.0	Thank you, President. Well, Congresswoman, I don't know what you asked me anymore. But in any case, I'll tell you one thing, we protect the privacy of all people who are deprived of freedom, who are deprived of freedom, so let's apply the law. According to the question, you use it tortically, because the word in the castle is very clear and very blunt, use it tortically to obtain information that you know directly tempts the privacy of persons deprived of liberty. Therefore, we, who are obliged to do so, protect the intimacy of people, complement the Law of Transparency, the General Prison Law and the Prison Rules. I'll tell you another question, because I can't be telling you – I said it before to your People's Party companion – either they're deliberately ignorant and they like to be, or they're... I won't say bad people..., act in very bad faith, act in bad faith! And I'll tell you something else, we're completing the law. It would be nice for you if we didn't complete the law, so look, we complete the law. And I'm back in defense of the Catalan public service because you, when you do that, question the work that you do every day in the Catalan public service. And I'll tell you another question, I know what's going on with you, we're in an election campaign, and it's all for you. So deliberately ignorant or something else. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.50.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about last week's Aldaruls in various indrects of Catalonia]] [[310-00233/12]] The next question is about last week's Aldaruls in various indrects of Catalonia. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.51.0	Thank you, President. We add to the solidarity shows with the people affected by the aid and also to the sympathy shows respect the deceased already confirmed. Counselor, before asking him the question, he wanted to make a series of statements with which I hope we can agree. In the first place, that the vast majority of people who participate in demonstrations or concentrations, on this occasion and in others, do so in a civic and peaceful manner. Secondly, that the political and social situation in Catalonia cannot be reduced to a public problem, but that certain public problems are likely to worsen this political and social situation. Thirdly, that the vandalism and violence exercised by groups of demonstrators last week at various points in Catalonia, and with special intensity in the city of Barcelona, is inadmissible and can reject it with firmness. That if there have been organized groups that have gone out on the street with the intent to provoke riots, confrontations with the police or attacks on other demonstrators, this must be investigated. That if there have been police actions not in accordance with the protocols, this must be investigated. And to take the place and not to stop with the previous, that the members of the Cosos de Mossos d'Esquadra and the rest of the police units must be able to bear the support of their political leaders. That said, what is the value that makes of the police raids and confrontations that took place last week and which precautions have been taken to ensure that it is reproduced in the future?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.52.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question you have the word the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.53.0	Thank you, President. Member, respect the statements that you have made, so, with subtlety, in some perhaps there would not be all the same, but I understand that..., I would like to think that you have addressed yourself in a way that we could get to share, especially in a very special one: that Catalonia does not have a public problem – does not have a public problem. Therefore, it would be..., and I take advantage of it, therefore, a petition: that they also address their companies in Madrid and that they do not only want to demonstrate or generate this report that Catalonia has a public problem. Catalunya has a political problem. And yes, we have public issues on the street, yes. And the police and the squad are working to ensure the safety of all Catalans and all Catalans, and they're working to ensure the safety of all protesters in this country. They're doing it. But when there's a public issue, the police act. But the problem of Catalonia is not of a public nature, the problem of Catalonia is political, and it would be solved if the president – in office – Sánchez is reunited with the president of the Generality of Catalonia, President Torra. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.54.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.55.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I told him that the political and social problems that Catalonia has cannot be reduced to a public problem, but I expected the Councilor d'Interior not to deny that last week we had a public problem. I mean, it can't be reduced to a public issue, it doesn't mean there isn't. I'm just saying, as long as we're in the mood... to try and get on with it. In the second term, did they have the necessary information to predict what types of mobilizations, the characteristics they could take, were during the last week? At what concrete moment last week did the Procicate activate? What measures have been taken to prevent us from having similar characteristics? What is the value of coordinating between the different police units, with the firemen or with the sanitary teams? Do you think it is reasonable that on the part of members of the Government or elected bodies it is called to occupy massively critical infrastructures, such as the airport, or railway lines, for example? Would you have undertaken to encourage the acclaiming of actions that may be considered not in accordance with the protocol, as the President wishes to announce that he wants to promote a committee of inquiry into this matter to Parliament? Why are the investigation commissions in Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.56.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.57.0	...clearing up responsibilities... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.58.0	Counselor, you have the word for the answer again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.59.0	I didn't deny it, did I? , that there are public problems. You can check what I said and stop saying, huh? Can you... I've had a series of questions that I like very much – because I have one minute and eight seconds to answer and I need a little more time – I'll answer them all to the appearance, which I have asked this room to compare. So then we can talk about what you need and I will try to give, humbly, all the explanations I have and in order to be there, before the doubts that any member of this chamber or any group of this chamber may have. Therefore, willing to explain to us, of course. And respect the committee, so, I said before, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is subdued to certain specific taxations: that of the Interior Department, which is that of the Government, that of the same, and also that of this house, that of the Parliament of Catalonia, as well as the Syndicate of Greuges, the taxation of communication and public opinion media, of course – because many years ago they were publicly taxed, the Mossos d'Esquadra, eh? ... Therefore, respect the committee, so listen to me, one, when you can go with your face very high, goes there where you want to explain things, and if you've made some mistake explains it, and explains how you corrected it. Therefore, this is the attitude of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.60.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the October 18, 2019 vacancy]] [[310-00234/12]] The next question is about the October 18, 2019 vacancy, and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mr Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.61.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Counselor El Homrani, the past divender held a vacancy summons on behalf of minority unions, in the march of protests there was for the sentence. Our group saw a number of members of their government and of parties that gave them support to this call. That said, I'd like to know what value his government makes of this summons and if he shares the objectives that there was with the wave.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.62.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word has the advisor The Homrani. He's trying to fix the audio, 'cause I know he's not feeling well, huh? In any case, the technicians are working on it. Thank you. Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.63.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Member Gibert.... – I was looking for it – in the first place, the one that surrounds us as government and the one that surrounds us as advisor of Work is to positively assess that the general vagueness of the past divendres was developed without incidents in the work centers: it was completed the minimum services and there was no incidence in the work centers nor complaint to the guard inspection linked to the right to vague. From here, the value we do as a government is about the follow-up, which is the value we need to do. There was a drop in electrical consumption to the morning gods of 10,11_per_cent; to the two, of 7,5_per_cent. It is in the wake of the waves that have followed most in the last years: the wave of 2010 – I think you know it perfectly – and the wave of October 3, 2017. From here on, the follow-up in the various sectors was uneven, from the field of universities, there was a 90_percent follow-up, to the field of the Catalan Health Institute, which was a 20_per_cent, or to the public teaching, which was a 42,5_per_cent. From here, the exercise of the vacant right, which is the responsibility we have as the department, we always defend. For the reasons that follow, any union can summon a vacancy, it would only be missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.64.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.65.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I was asking if you share the object of the vacancy for very simple reasons. This group has had the opportunity to read the statements made by the callers of the wave and knows what their objectives were. Its objectives were, among others – and in a short summary – a minimum wage of EUR 1,200 for Catalonia, a social rescue plan, the full application of guaranteed income and – attention – the withdrawal of the Aragonese law. These are some of the complaints pursued by this summons. You saw the requests, I don't know if you were thinking very well at the time of giving support to this vacancy that was called up, that you didn't have the gathering of the majority unions and that you were formally going against their management. Or are you against the Aragonese law? It would be good to know. This huge contradiction that he saw the government is more proof of the fake character of this vagueness. We have seen how the government joins a wave that goes against the policies of the same government; this is unusual. With all this paperwork you make between entities, at least you might have agreed not to shoot one piece at a time. But, it's more, we've seen a job opening for the same Chamber of Commerce; almost nothing. But we're not fooling ourselves, we all know that we've lived through a corporate lockdown, raised for the government and amplified for its media. We already know that President Torra and the convergent sector, PDECAT-Joints, are never allies of the workers, but you, a trade unionist who does not have his condition, knows perfectly what a job vacancy means, knows the sacrifices that he has assumed for many generations to get to hold the right to a job, knows the difficulty that it represents for many workers to sacrifice the sum of a day for their labor rights and knows perfectly that what we have been living to become is not a job vacancy, it is another perversion of the process. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.66.0	To answer the word again the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.67.0	Thank you, President. Yes, I also had the excuses for the labor reforms that you have promised since 2015, and that's why I didn't get into the motivations. [[Greetings.]] I think, and I'm worried, that I'm exercising that we're going to be in dubious rights. And the right to the street is a right that's functional. And since this government, we won't be in any doubt about the right, let alone the right to freedom of expression, the right to protest, the right to freedom of speech, the right to protest, the right that in the last few years, in this country, many times have been violated. From here on out, I think we've all seen the dive, I think we've seen as citizens and citizens exercised their rights, that they would just miss, that they exercised their rights. And our responsibility as a government and the responsibility of any government – and here I take advantage to remind you – because they have responsibilities as a government – is to guarantee the exercise of the rights of citizens. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.68.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the fi of repression]] [[310-00237/12]] The next question is about the end of the repression, and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Irene Fornós. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.69.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, also, from the Republic Group, our support and support to the people affected by the caretakers and all their municipalities. Well, political repression is the act of containing, detaining or punishing political or social actions from power on the part of public authorities, denying or preventing the exercise of rights and freedoms that are usually considered to be the first democratic systems, often accompanied also by violence. This is the definition of "political repression" which includes any dictionary or encyclopedia. And this is exactly the definition of the performance and the response of the Spanish government to the Catalan independence movement. Unfortunately, we have to contemplate that political repression, as the General Secretariat of the Republican Left reminded us, Marta Rovira, today in exile, has become an instrument with the sole purpose of trying to stop, obstruct or cancel the independence movement from the agenda. On November 10th there will again be elections to the Spanish State, the fourth in four years, provoked by the incapacity of the main Spanish political parties. The previous elections won them Republican Left of Catalonia, with a program of dialogue and self-determination, a basic consensus, dialogue and self-determination, which brings all the elections to Catalonia since 2012. Here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, we have also had elections, three since 2012, and in all of them the forces that proposed the independence of Catalonia have obtained a majority parliament. But far from listening to this majority of Catalonian citizens, from recognizing and talking about their demands, the Spanish State has only offered us repression as a response, a repression against democracy, rights and freedoms, which rejects the dialog as a tool to resolve political conflicts. The Spanish State, and in this case the President-in-Office, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, as I said, dialog, does not understand. And this concerns us not only the independenceists, but also the democrats of the country. And each time they are more than those who do not share or accept repressive attitudes or judicial decisions such as those of this ruling, who undertake with a hundred years of age a democratically elected government for the people to put the ballots, to be able to exercise the most serious right in democracy: the right to vote; who also undertakes the president of the Parliament of Catalonia to allow the parliamentary debate, with the aim of suppressing this institution, or the leaders of social entities to mobilize and manifest themselves. In view of all this, Vice-President, we would like to know what the Government is doing so that the Spanish State abandons the policy of repression and sits at the empty seat of the dialect, where it has been a long time to wait and never finds itself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.70.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.71.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congresswoman, nine years to bid a Civil Guard vehicle to deconvoke a demonstration. In conjunction, close to a prison sec to propose and pull forward the October 1 referendum. Therefore, we are ahead of a decision that it is not a decision of justice, it is a revenge and it is a scare. And it's a line to leave, because we're in front of a political conflict, of a political nature, and political conflicts are only resolved by talking, negotiating and voting at last, giving the word to the citizenry. Successive Spanish governments, first in Mariano Rajoy and now Pedro Sánchez, have decided not to face this conflict politically and have decided to leave the solution of a political problem in the hands of police, judges and prosecutors. The result: more repression, more polarization, more social tension, chronification of the conflict. So I want to give it to him. And yesterday the Government of the Generalitat, as I have previously replied to another Member, we approved a government agreement in this line, to confirm the initiative of the President of the Generalitat to establish this dialogue with the Government of the State ; that it is absolutely irresponsible that Pedro Sánchez, before the major political crisis in Catalonia of the past years, does not even decide to answer the petitions of the Government of the Generalitat and its President. The political dialogue between the Government of the Generality and the Presidency of the Spanish Government is the one that corresponds to the President of the Generality of Catalonia. That's what we have to claim here: that you start walking through politics and the dialog. And that's what the Government of the Government of Catalonia is proposing. As Pedro Sánchez dexied himself from accumulating, from accumulating behind five hundred follies of an ignominious feeling, from accumulating behind courts and prosecutors. As Pedro Sánchez said to address only a part of the population of Catalonia. When the dialogue with democratic institutions in Catalonia is denied, the dialogue and democratic rights are denied to all citizens of that country. Now it's time for politics. If he doesn't, when? If not now, that there is a political crisis, of the greatest in this country, and you do not decide to do politics, when will we do it? This is the commitment of the Government of the Government of Catalonia: political and democratic solution, dialect to get there and, obviously, to formulate our convictions, our proposal, which is to give the view to the citizen of Catalonia, because in deciding the future policy of this country, is to exercise the right to self-determination. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.72.0	The next question... [[Ask the Government about the Health Department's response to the injuries in the mobilizations called against the Supreme Court's judgment]] [[310-00238/12]] ... it is about the response of the Department of Health in relation to the injuries in the mobilizations called against the Supreme Court's judgment, and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gemma Espigares. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.73.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Vergés, I'm already going to ask you for last week's injuries. He knows that we have known this sentence, that he condemns the government and the civilian leaders to more than a hundred years, and eleven years and a half to arrest the Speaker of Parliament to put the debate in Parliament. Therefore, having this, the people, the people's response, was to overwhelm it all, to fill the streets with civic and peaceful demonstrations, and if we didn't have enough with judicial brutality, it was also to add police brutality, with fucking shots, with police charges and with rubber drivers, banned for this Parliament, and more pointed directly to the face and emptying eyes to some of the protesters. We have seen how the police have attacked political dissent – not only from these protesters, but also from tourists, journalists –, how they have entered hospital emergencies to identify protesters and how fascists have camped for our streets bursting with jaws. To all this, counsel, we have a determined people, a young combatant, and the exemplary response of the Medical Emergencies Service last week was to deal with all this with an activation of more than two hundred hours in a row, plus they have to constantly replan the sanitary devices, and to fire the territory at different times. Taking all this into account, we ask you, Counselor, what is your appreciation of the planning that they did months before these devices? What is the reorganisation that they had to do and what is the coordination that was done with the health care that was being done in every hospital, also with urgent attention, and that this week was not over and that, moreover, will also have to deal with those riues that the companies that preceded me have asked?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.74.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question you have the word Salut's advisor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.75.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, MPs who asked me the question: so yes, our health system is always prepared – always prepared – and always answer. And I think that we have to say this in a strong way, because our professionals, who are people of vocation and people involved, are reinforced when they are exceptional situations, and this is so. This is an exceptional situation, an overwhelming response of very many people to a feeling that is as vengeful as it is useless – it is as vengeful as it is useless. So a lot of people have come out on the street, and this involves us, in these mobilizations, having to organize us between all the departments of the Government of Catalonia, and the Department of Health is not on the sidelines. We have had exemplary coordination, from the Health Department, with the Medical Emergencies System – with the EMS – and with all the centers, with a main objective, which is to make ordinary services possible – that's always the case – working center-to-center, patient-to-patient, to identify those non-delayable attentions that would have been long-term in a wave of mobilizations. And so we did in those attentions where non-urgent health transportation had to arrive to bring people to dialysis, to cancer treatments and to radiotherapy, talking to mayors and mayors personally, and if not from different regions, to explain this coordination and these devices. And we have also done this with the SEM making available many more united, from October 14 to 20: 122 more units that add up to the 430 we already have, 268 professionals throughout the territory and with immediate attention on the spot in the place of mobilizations. We're dating 593 people, 8 in-patients and 4 people who have lost sight of an eye. What I'm saying is: this system of salvation goes absolutely to everyone, it doesn't discriminate against anyone, not like the President-in-Office, Mr. Sánchez, who sees only his own people here. This is indignant: we, this government, have been worried about the state of salvation absolutely of everyone, especially of the hospitals, and of its evolution; not like President Sánchez and the Great Marlaska, who only sees his own. It is indignant, honourable Member – it is indignant. Like the Parliament of Catalonia, we are here to rule for everyone. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.76.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[He asked the President of the Generalitat about the police's actions and the reason for which the Councillor of the Interior had not ceased.]] [[317-00136/12]] You finish the questions to the Government, we go to the questions to the President of the Generality, and in the first place, you ask the question, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.77.0	Good morning. President, since the 14th of October, more than 600 people injured, 194 people detained, 29 people in business and 4 people who have lost sight of an eye. We could see how the National Police went into bars, stopped and physically assaulted with their padded sleeves. We've seen police vehicles that used to carousel and run people over. We have also seen how they were used or when plastic balls were fired, which we call "rubber pilots, banned for this Parliament". We've also seen the charges of safe people, blows to the head, tear gassing, and we've seen the city of Barcelona as the phasers moved around with impunity for miles and the squadron mosss didn't prevent attacks. Also his government requested temporary detention for some of the protesters, and that, besides, there are journalists, workers and media workers, who have been assaulted and assaulted, and even some detained and some detained. President, look, we give it to you in a very clear way: of all this – of all things – he is indirectly responsible for coordinating his government – coordination with the National Police and with the Civil Guard – but he has a direct responsibility to Mr. Buch as the most responsible for the Squad Mossos. We're asking you to cease Mr. Buch. And we ask him: why hasn't he stopped yet?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.78.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.79.0	Yeah, good morning. Jo, allow me, that's the first time I've ever been to the chamber, too..., to get all the people who have suffered these floods, these people, all my solidarity with them, with their families. At these times we have four missing people – due to Vilaverd, due to the Espluga de Francolí – and a person who, unfortunately, can confirm that he has died in Arenys de Munt. Jo, after this intervention, I will naturally go to the affected areas to show my solidarity. If you'll allow me, Member, once you've finished your intervention, I'll answer it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.80.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.81.0	President, look, it seems to me that in this chamber everyone wants to show solidarity with families, with friends, and therefore, it seems to me that it was absolutely a waste that you could do as well as the highest representative of the Government of Catalonia, but this subgroup also deserves an answer in the way it was to be done. That said, look, President, what we are very clear about is that every day that happens – every day that happens – you don't stop Mr. Buch what you're doing by default is giving support to the irregular practices of the Squad Mosos. Every day you spend it can cease, not cease, and therefore, it is supporting it. What we ask of you is not only the cessation of the maximum responsible for the Squad's Mossos, but also the guarantee of the fundamental rights of assembly, demonstration and freedom of expression, and the immediate expulsion of all the Squad's movements responsible for aggression. It is not only to initiate sanctioning procedures and end up sanctioning: immediate expulsion. I, lastly: dissolution of Brimo, for a radical change in the model of public security that eliminates any expression of... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.82.0	Congressman, time's up. Thank you. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.83.0	So much! And as long as I answer. Because you think I liked it – you think I liked it – many of the images and many of the actions that have taken place these days? Do you think I liked these performances? [[Pause.]] It has been a week of enormous complexity – enormous – in the matter of security for the large number of mobilizations that have occurred. And I celebrate the thousands and thousands – and thousands and thousands – of citizens who have gone out peacefully to the streets, and that this is the most compelling proof of the reaction against feelings. [[Greetings.]] But you're right: you're right in the presentation you've made before. He has put many cases on the table – many. I made a decision yesterday, which I shared with the government, and all the members of the government agreed. I said: we create a committee of inquiry in Parliament, which the whole chamber can provide, discuss, with total transparency, all the facts that took place this week – all facts, all the actions, all the images that have been seen. With the presence, if necessary, of the syndic of hardships, with the presence of human rights entities, with the presence of entities, too, of security. This is the first measure we took yesterday at the Executive Board. The next measure is to ask the Interior Councillor to immediately initiate all internal investigations that are necessary for those actions that are not in accordance with the established criteria, and to immediately open all necessary dispatches to clear the corresponding responsibilities. I will pay particular attention to the results of these investigations and to the clearance of all responsibilities, which we will pay attention to – and pay attention to – all responsibilities. We are complete neither more nor less than what the Synod of Greuges asks us in his reports: the extralimitation in the use of force by the police must be investigated and punished...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.84.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.85.0	...as a part of his commandments. That's what we're gonna do. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.86.0	Thank you. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the maintenance of the proposal of the unilateral way of self-determination]] [[317-00138/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.87.0	Yeah, good morning to everyone and everyone. And before anything else, also, send all of our escalf to the people affected by the waiters. President, last week, in your appearance, you again insisted on the unilateral way, the six-months, what you want to say in the spring, and we ask you if today is also kept in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.88.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.89.0	Madam Member, I came here as President of the Generality to make a proposal to the people of Catalonia, which is the proposal that the President will defend in which it must be a great national agreement that we have to achieve in this country based on great principles, where I believe that it is also you, where I imagine it is you, that it is in the exercise of the right of self-determination, the defense of rights and freedoms and amnesty. In this great agreement, I imagine that you brought your sense or your way of seeing things; the CUP, yours; the Republican Left, yours too, and Juntes for Catalonia, therefore, your point of view. I will defend that the independence of Catalonia must be re-voted; it is certainly what I said, it is my personal proposal. But it must be the result of a great consensus – it must be the result of a great consensus. They're putting us in there. And the first step is the motion for a resolution tabled by the three independent groups of the chamber, which I hope will have their support.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.90.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.91.0	Yes, thank you, President. You continue to insist on the unilateral way, a way that in reality is to repeat the same mistakes that were made in October 2017, leaving behind Catalonia, that I don't know if you share all your government, and that it has only generated frustration for the lack of expectant completes. And with all the smile that I'm capable of now, I must remind you, President, that last week I didn't ask you to resign because you're engaged, and I'm telling you in reference to the comment you made about me on public television in Catalonia saying that Mrs. Albiach seems to be taking on a little bit of mass. I think it's a comment, by the way, very little feminist, quite paternalistic. [[applause]] And that you and everyone in this room know it's not true. If I asked you to take a step on the side, and if you stay on it today, it's because you're thinking more every time in a smaller part of the country, because Catalonia has a lack of leadership that's obvious and because all of yours – today we can read Mr. Jordi Sànchez – make sure that you reacted late to the news that we're patenting and that there's no political direction in Catalonia. I think it's such a great way in which you're emptying the presidency of the Generality. And in parallel, we see that Pedro Sánchez is taking advantage of and abusing this situation by playing the broken phone, undermining the Catalan institutions, in an attitude that we can only hear from more irresponsible electoralism, which you know we do not share. And the PSC, instead of going out and saying that this can't be so, just pulls Mr. Montilla's head to say that maybe he should talk about the feeling too. I think we're in front of a political background problem, which is actually, isn't it? Beyond the conflict we have with Catalonia and Spain, at the time of solving it, there is a problem of substance, which is that in the end to you – I know it's hard what I'm going to say – no one has tea as a valid interlocutor, neither in Catalonia nor outside Catalonia. Last week you were talking about convening the assembly of elected officials, we believe that what is to be convened is this Parliament or to announce that it is either praying or doing a question of trust in the own Ple after the elections. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.92.0	To answer, has the word again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.93.0	Yeah. Home, I'm grateful that you tell me that every time I go to a smaller part of our city when there was an act at the Palau de la Généralita with the vice president, with the mayor of Girona, with the mayor of Tarragona and with the father in the head of Lleida and the mayor of Barcelona did not want to come. Do you want to exercise the mayor of Barcelona, which is the mayor of the capital of Catalonia..., at once, do you want to do it or not? [[Greetings. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] And you say: "No, you are not a valid interlocutor. Home, here I thought that there would be a certain empathy of his group, because after everything that happened to Mr. Pablo Iglesias respects Mr. Sánchez, the absolutely constant minority that on behalf of Mr. Sánchez held Mr. Iglesias, the truth is that, as a matter of fact, I would think that you, this time, would be next to the Catalan institutions, the President of the Generality, who is the President of Catalonia and who is to be addressed from you to the President of Spain. Look – look –, we already have feelings, they are firm feelings, already, the time of equity has run out. (Founding voice) Yeah, yeah. Either we're with the reprisals or we're with the repressions– or we're with the reprisals or we're with the repressions. And now you have a sensational opportunity: you have a motion for a resolution that has been agreed for the three groups in the chamber. Aren't you in favour of talking about everything in this Parliament? Aren't you in favor of the right to self-determination in Catalonia? You are not in favour, for example, of warning this feeling, which establishes an unacceptable precedent from which all forms of protest, for example, the maturity of a denunciation, the occupation of a CAP or the size of a street...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.94.0	President, time is running out. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Some applause.]] [[Ask the President of the Generality about the reason why he did not meet with the leaders of the political formations after the Supreme Court's ruling on the process was known.]] [[317-00135/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.95.0	Thank you, Mr President, you will allow me to express your condolences and solidarity with the victims and those affected by the aid. My question, Mr President, is simple: what is the reason why you did not think it appropriate to meet with the leaders of the Catalan parliamentary political forces after knowing the Supreme Court's judgment, the rebuttal demonstrations and the episodes of urban violence that occurred in the country's main cities?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.96.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.97.0	They had occasion, at the time of my appearance in this chamber, we had occasion to discuss all the groups in the chamber, but who now has to discuss with the President of Catalonia, who has to clear the phone and talk to the President of Catalonia, in the most difficult situation that this country has experienced in recent years, is the President of the Government of the State. We need to talk about you, the president of the president. And you, who I imagine you've got to take the phone, can do a favor, an important service to this country: once Mr. Pedro Sánchez has the phone, he passes me over and I can talk to him. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.98.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.99.0	I don't know what to say to you in this second episode of Poland that stars the presidency of the Generality around a phone. (Applause.) Perhaps I'll remind you who your obligations are: the first, answer the questions of the groups in this House and find no excuses from here, because you know perfectly well that you didn't do what you had to do. I made him a letter, precisely, to remind him of three things that seemed to me to be phonenal. The first, the need for a strong condemnation of violence, of the product and of what can be produced, because, unfortunately, you, who have fed the most radical sectors, surely you are more obliged than others to manifest your rebuff. But I think all Catalans and Catalans would appreciate it if you said, "It's not okay with us, it's not okay with us, we reject violence, we want to stare at the violent, especially this week when a lot of people want to show up in defense of their criteria. Second, escort'm, his government is also the world backwards. For a government, the country's police have assumed professionalism. I want to affirm our support for the Squad Mousse. And that does not mean that, in fact, as the Councillor of the Interior said before, if any abnormal event has occurred, if the protocols of performance have not been completed, it is the same as the one that deprecates responsibilities. You're talking about a commission of inquiry. Do you know what investigative commissions are for? To spare political responsibilities, and these cannot be clearer: the Councillor of the Interior and the Councillor of the Interior, which is the supreme command of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. [[Greetings.]] And third, president, if you want to speak on behalf of all, if you want to exercise full institutional responsibility and speak on behalf of the country, which is what you seem to want, meet us, talk, know the opinion of all parliamentary groups, not just those who support your government. You're not up, President, and that's why we asked for your resignation and today we repeat it. Only a few new elections and with a new government can we find ways to solve the problem...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.100.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.101.0	...that he'll clap at us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.102.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.103.0	Do you know who..., Mr. Sanchez, to whom I suppose you give him all the credibility as the interlocutor, as the president of the Spanish Government, knows what support you have? 28_percent votes. There was no 22_per_cent tingutel in the penultimate elections. Do you know how I support this government with votes? 43_per_cent. Why don't you ask that the President of Spain can speak on behalf of all Spaniards and the President of the Generality can't speak on behalf of all Catalans? [[Greetings.]] What we ask, from the government of Catalonia, to President Sánchez is that I start thinking about the next generations and not the next elections, what we need now is a state visit. Five calls to President Sanchez and he didn't answer my phone. In this situation, when all the international media – if international leaders are replaced – the international community does not understand how this may be happening, that at this time of gravity as President Sánchez has left office and does not respond to the main problem in this country. I insist, it's no longer just about our company's penises. No, no, not just that. It no longer affects only the Catalan independenceists, nor the Catalans, it affects all Spanish citizens – all Spanish citizens – this feeling. Why can they go through a PAH denunciation now? What can happen? What can happen in any kind of reel that a picket in a vacant building can do? What can happen after this sentence? And for this reason, I want to thank very much all the events that took place in Spain and in the world, I want to thank the people of Madrid, the people of Zaragoza, Granada, Donosti, Valencia, Palma, Oviedo, among others, for their solidarity with the people of Catalonia. (Applause.) Thank you very much. And in Brussels, and in Berlin, thanks to all the people who are on the side of Catalans and the defense of their right to self-determination. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.104.0	Thank you. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the repression of the Spanish State]] [[317-00139/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, Mrs Anna Caula. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.105.0	President, a week ago, we were struck by a stalemate like a feeling, condemnation, revenge, a period of imprisonment against new people to put the ballot boxes; a week that felt many like the answer: freedom marches, in the country's places of detention, and in Madrid, Càceres, Donosti, Berlin, and we also saw as the bully lane. We want all the rights, and we want them without renunciation, before a state that limits democracy and violates the fundamental rights. We complain – we complain – that political problems are solved by politics. We want to manifest ourselves without being criminalized. We want to protest without inverse police actions, without arbitrary arrests, or unjustifiable undertakings. We want to guarantee freedom of information, without attacks on journalists. And we want to exercise freedom of expression, so attacked lately, also in this Parliament. We want to talk about everything, without the passing of Damocles returning to the head of our company at the Table. If they wait for surrender, they won't find her. If they wait for judgment, for criminality, to put up with a noble and peaceful movement, it is time for them to understand that neither humiliation nor vengeance can succeed in a people who are abiding by a great injustice. In fact, the motion for a resolution that we presented today is more of an exhibition to plant in front of repression, as many of these days, together, looking for strategic points. All of us – all of us – agreed. And we have to follow together so that the answer to the judgment is to ask us all, to ask the whole Catalan society. Whoever has the responsibility to rule has to exercise it. And this government is doing it, and it's doing it today before the emergence of the country before the waiters. But Pedro Sánchez does not, to the government of the PSOE, of the PSC, we will tell him again the shots he makes: excuse me, do not choke. Can't negotiate without a light lock on both sides. We sit at the table, we hold hands, we trick at the door, even though this is an armed ant. The answer is the people again, it was October 1st, day 1st, late, on the evenings, always peacefully our day as good. Even the infirmaries said it while Sanchez was leaving a hospital with escorts teaching weapons. That's not it. In fact, it's all summed up: yes at all. President, to channel politics, institutions, as we have done with... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.106.0	Congresswoman, time's up. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.107.0	Yes, thank you very much, Congresswoman. In the first place, I would also like to thank the support of all the government's companies for this whole week, a very complicated week, but every day, if it's any, two, three times, the special follow-up cabinet of events, so we've been meeting in Palau. Thank you very much to all the companies, all the advisors and advisers who have been present. It seems unbelievable, yes, that in this Parliament there is no room to talk about everything. Sounds amazing, huh? So, we'll talk about everything. And that is why I very much welcome the fact that we have agreed on the three groups in the chamber to say that this Parliament will talk about everything, that it will talk and debate about the right to self-determination, and that we will not have a limit. And I hope that the Assembly of Extremadura, with the support of the PSOE, the PP and Ciutadans, will want to apply Article 155 to Catalonia rebin a perception of the Constitutional Court because they are exceeding clearly its competences. Miri, the repression has reached a point – the repression has reached a point – which is already the Council of Europe that is equivalent to Spain with Turkey, it is the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe that has addressed the Spanish authorities saying: "But as... you must investigate what is going on, you must investigate this violence that you are exercising, you must investigate why you are using guns with rubber pilots. And we don't say it, the United Nations says it, the whole world says it. I'd like to, quite simply, maybe translate them five headlines. To the Washington Post: "The Catalan leader says that only the dialog can stop protests. To the New York Time: "The Catalan leader asks Spain to start talks about a referendum on independence. Euro News : « Prime Minister Sánchez threatened the Catalan leader. Trouw, to the Netherlands : « At the moment, Madrid does not speak to Catalonia. O the Deutsche Welle: "The Spanish government rejects the petition of the president of Catalonia to open negotiations. This is how the Spanish government's inability to dialogue, simply to take the phone and say: "Are we talking? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We're serious. That dialyst attempt we've started building at these times isn't possible? At these difficult times, you don't take my phone so I can talk about the situation and, therefore, we will continue to insist – insist –: dialog, dialog, dialog. And we'll tell Spain: Sit down and talk. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.108.0	The next question is the formula... [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the attitude of the President of the Spanish Government to the Government of the Generalitat]] [[317-00137/12]] ...on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Albert Batet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.109.0	Thank you, President Torrent. Very honorable President Torra... In the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, express our solidarity with all the families and affected and victims of this night's aid to the Conca de Barberà, the Alt Camp, the Baix Camp, as well as the country. And thanking the ingenious pocket of security and fire and SEM, like the mayors who are a little short of the cano, so, trying to recover a situation that, yes, we had already suffered a few years ago in our communities, but which has been produced again. With the sentence, a hundred years of prison – a hundred years of prison – the Catalan conflict makes a leap of scale. A hard feeling, a hard feeling that enters into infringements that makes the rights and freedoms. There are many Catalans and Catalans who feel condemned for their feelings, as there are also many Catalans who do not surprise us with Mr. Pedro Sánchez's presumptuous and minor attitude. Mr Pedro Sánchez of menysteniment, Mr Pedro Sánchez of « in exchange for nothing. Mr. Pedro Sánchez, who divides the Catalan society when only he meets with one part of it: with Ciutadans, with the People's Party, with Podemos, and he does not meet with the majorities that won the European elections, that won the elections to the Congress of Deputies and that won the municipal elections in Catalonia and that govern and lead the Catalan institutions, acting with total irresponsibility, leaving behind their obligations, leaving behind their functions. We have seen it well this week: a minority without precedent to the institutions and the presidency of the Generality. Mr. Pedro Sánchez has surpassed the worst Mariano Rajoy. A totally irresponsible attitude, in a blocked Spanish that carries four elections in four years, to reject the dialect, in order not to face a catal conflict that is there, that prefers elections to politics. People are, there's on the marches, there's demonstrations in a peaceful and civic way; people are clear. Politics can't stop being there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.110.0	[[Thank you, Congressman. To answer that, the President of the Generalitat has the word.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.167.0	Yes, thank you, Congressman. I share your analysis. Jo avui looked at the etymology of the word "dialeg: day, "through, logos, "word; "through the word – through the word. It's the only way we have to come to terms. And this dialog is not with the people with whom you can most or least share affinity; no, it's with the people from whom you are most distant. And we're doing a little bit of a relief from what happened this past year and a half in the Spanish State, and a little bit more: the Catalan independence groups are giving their vote without reservations, without conditions or reservations to President Sánchez to probably do what the most corrupt Spanish government of history has been, the government of Mr. Mariano Rajoy, with the illusion, with the hope that a process of dialogue, of dialogue will be started. We have a first meeting in Moncloa, we agree that a political problem will have a political solution. And I think it was a step, it was a step forward. We keep insisting, we meet at Pedralbes. And that not yet we can stretch out a little more and we agree to say: "Escoltin, Government of Catalonia, Government of Spain, do we feel interlocutors? Yeah. Are we political subjects? Yeah. So each one who makes his proposal as to how to solve this political issue. The Government of Catalonia naturally went to this dialog table saying: "We are going to exercise the right of self-determination and we want a given reference. This is our proposal. Do you know what the proposal the Government of Spain presented to us was? Captain. During this year and half of the presidency no answer, not one! Quiet. And now, after the feelings, not one. Quiet. I mean, how did Pedro Sánchez's presidency change respect for Mariano Rajoy's presidency? We continued to have no answer. It's more, with one exception, these last few hours, that the Catalans no longer understand it, that the international community no longer understands it. Therefore, we in the line of the motion for a resolution which we have granted the three independent groups of the chamber, in the line of this great national agreement, which must come out, which we must achieve further from these three groups calling for other political parties, other civic and social entities, we must be able to build this great bloc for the exercise of the right to self-determination, for amnesty and for freedom. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about his relationship with the squamous chaos in Catalonia]] [[317-00134/12]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.111.0	The later asks the formula Mrs. Lorena Roldán, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.112.0	Yes, thank you, President. I also want to add to the shows of solidarity and condolences for the victims and those affected by yesterday night for the help of Catalonia. And, Mr. Torra, the question: what relationship do you have with the commands that have sown chaos in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.113.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.114.0	Oriol Junqueras, 13 years; Raül Romeva, 12 years; Jordi Turull, 12 years; Dolors Bassa, 12 years; Carme Forcadell, 11 years and mig; Josep Rull, 10 years and mig; Joaquim Forn, 10 years and mig; Jordi Sánchez, 9 years; Jordi Cuixart, 9 years. One hundred years in prison. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.115.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.116.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Torra, another number today at the control session. Look, this week Catalonia has experienced one of the darkest weeks that can be remembered: we have seen barricades; we have seen the streets burn; we have seen aggressions with Molotov cocktails, with steel balls, with acid; we have seen how hooded people were tearing up dookines for these aggressions. A week that has resulted in 2,7_million losses, 199 detainees and 600 injured. Look, Mr. Torra, I don't want you to imagine what would have happened if the Civil Guard hadn't stopped just a few days ago those members of the radical separatist commands who were planning to attack in October in Catalonia; those whom you defended and applauded; those who know very well in the Republican Left, because one of them was on their lists, and what's worse, one of them also points to yourself, Mr. Torra. So since you don't ask me..., I mean, you don't answer me, I mean, I ask you again here: what relationship do you have with the separatist commands that have sown chaos in Catalonia? Did you know these detainees suspected of terrorism? Have you held any kind of meeting or telephone conversation with these detainees or their environment? Yes or no? Mr. Torra. Did you know your plans, yes or no? Mr. Torra. And I remind you that we are in parliamentary office and that you have an obligation to tell the truth, so we want to know what was the relationship with these suspected terrorist suspects detained for alleged terrorism and also with those who have involved Catalonia in flames. And I hope, I insist, that you live up to the circumstances, because what we have lived here in Catalonia is very serious, and it is your responsibility, Mr Torra. You've been fuelling fire for months, threatening to attack the state, you've been blackmailing on account of the sentence and encouraging the radicals to act if it wasn't your liking. And in an unprecedented descarcation exercise, when this sentence finally comes out and the totalitarians obey it, obey it and tear down Catalonia, you give them thanks, you will cut roads with them and come here, to the house of all Catalans, to threaten with a new blow. Look, Mr. Torra, you are a public danger: for the violent you have applause and thanks; for the agents who protect us you have indications, and for the majority of Catalans you have only chaos and fear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.117.0	Time's up, Congresswoman. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.118.0	Yeah, by the numbers you guys do every control session, huh? For numbers of this. I have always said the truth – always the truth –, and in the last appearance I said I said, moreover, that we must live in the truth these days – we must live in the truth. I'll always do it. Listen to me, it's that the more they keep squeezing, the more they keep wanting to generate conflicts, it's that I'm sorry, you're falling free in these questions and this looks like a colossal fracture – this looks like a colossal fracture. And it's normal, because people are tired of you, people are tired of a political group that is only conflict, that is only problem, that they only seek the discrepancy and conflict between all of you. You don't want to build, you just want to destroy. I haven't heard yet who his project is for Catalonia. What's that? 155? 155? Is that it? Yes, yes, the motion of censure, correct. The most failed motion of censure of all the history of censure motions. I mean, his fate is weak. He failed in the motion of censure, they will fail now in the next elections. They have squandered a support that you have and that we have recognized: you have won the elections of the 21st of December, but it is fixed on the results that you have obtained and it is fixed on the results that all these forecasts have. Listen, you're Tsunami's complainer to store his shipwreck, that's what happens to them. And I've already warned Mrs. Endings, and I'm going to warn you again: they're being condemned to be a residual group. [[remorse of the voice]] , because people want solutions, people want dialyg [[applause]] – the people fly dialect – the people want to be able to talk. You don't talk to anyone, you don't talk to anyone at all. [[remorse of the voice]] - No, no, no, No one's talking to you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.119.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.120.0	Therefore, let us wait for these elections, which I am sure will confirm again their weakness. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.121.0	Thank you. [[Proposal for a partial amendment law to Law 2/2000 of 4 May 2000 of the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia]] [[202-00030/12]] After the control session, let's move to the next item on the agenda, the second item, which is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Commission of Institutional Affairs on the Proposal for a partial amendment law of Law 2/200, of 4 May, of the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Josep Riera, who has been appointed by the rapporteur, has the first word. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.122.0	First of all, add to the shows of solidarity with people affected by the storms. And I also want to sympathize with the wounded in the demonstrations of the last few days, and in my case, as a journalist, also especially with the journalists who have rejected the wounded. Before anything else, on the subject, a small preview: let us first clarify what we are doing here, that it is not exactly what the title of this point of the order of the day says, that it is the proposition of law partial modification of the Law 2/2020, of May 4, of the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia. In fact, as it is not exactly correct, the work of the audience we started for the last point, the 58, which is the one that corrects the title of this law and this description of the "Lei del Consell de l'Audiovisual de Catalunya" (Lei de l'Audiovisual de Catalunya) we have added to it and of the 11/2007 Law, of the 11th of October, of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. Therefore, the law we approve today is the modification of those of the Audiovisual and Corporate Council. And now, yes, I'm starting, and in these cases, it has to start with the graces. Therefore, first of all to aggravate the good predisposition and the good work to all the speakers: in David, Adriana, David – another David –, the Marta, the Natalia, the Hope and also many graces to the Iletrate, in Toni, who has done a lot of good and very good work, and also to the Marta Payà, linguistic technique, and Laia Grau for the administrative procedures. Thank you all very much. It's a law, this one, that started with a consensus text from the last legislature, but there was work to do: it had to be done, it was the hardest, and we did the work. And I think we did very well. We've made a text that backs up as much consensus as possible in each of the articles. They all participated, in all the discussions and in the debate of all the papers, even all the groups that did not have papers, in certain articles. And in the final result no one can find its ideal text, but everyone can recognize it, either through concrete contributions or in a busy transaction work to collect all the sensitivities. In this sense, then, we could say that the final text is the result of a great deal. And in this work, I must once again thank the contribution of the Bayona Ileter, who with his proposals has often found the point of balance that he needed. We have all been aware, too, that we are in this legislature, that this reform of the election and governance of the corporation and the Council of the Audiovisual goes from the moon and that the circumstances have made it impossible for it to be done in the form of law until today. That's why there was a rush and a rush because we filled the job well in a hurry, but the fact is that wanting to do the job very quickly often could become more of an obstacle than a facilitating element. For this reason, we ended up making two proposals to face the work: on the one hand, leaving out of the discussion the issues that hinder the reconsideration of the model and the brand both of the Audiovisual Council and of the corporation, and we agreed to focus only on the issues of the model choice and governance of these organizations. And on the other hand, pose as a priority to do a good job more than to make it very hasty. And the end result, I think, was a good job, and that's how we did it at a very short time. Because one thing was for us to start from a certain consensus and another to put it into common accords. At the end of the day, therefore – and I am no longer expanding – we have to congratulate ourselves, we have succeeded in making a law that strengthens the majority by electing members of the Corporate and CCS Board of Governors and also empowers the competence and professionalism profiles of the people who are to govern these two bodies, and introduces an explicit reinforcement of parity, in compliment to the Law of Equality of this Parliament. There are also other highlights, but at these moments I would like to highlight these three. Therefore, we congratulate ourselves on the work done together with the ponència and celebrate the text of the new law, because in greater or lesser measure everyone can recognize it. And we expect you to serve the citizen of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. The parliamentary groups which have reserved documents to defend in the House will then speak. And it has the word, in the first place, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr. David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.124.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, above all, that shows my solidarity and that of my group for those affected by the time that has affected our community these days. [[Some applause.]] That said, by the way, it seemed that it would never arrive at this moment, but by the way, it has arrived, after three legislatures trying to modify the Law of the Corporation, after different attempts to modify this law, so it seems that we will finally arrive at a good place and that, if there is no last-minute surprise, we can give the green light to this much-anticipated change. First of all, I would also like to highlight the willingness of all the parliamentary groups in the Chamber to try to reach an agreement, which, even if it is a minimum agreement, I believe was absolutely necessary and urgent. And I would obviously also like to thank the work done by the different speakers, the rapporteur, the Josep, the Natalia, the David, the Marta, the Adriana, the Hope. And especially I'd also like to thank the work done for the cast of the ponència, Mr. Bayona. For Ciutadans this change of law was essential. Not only in this legislature, but also in the last legislature, we will present as first legislative measures our alternative text to respect. And that shows our group's willingness to respect. Obviously, after the challenge, all the parties we have had to give in to some question, we have had to give in to some of our assumptions, but, as I said, the urgency of these minimums has made that the modification is fixed in very concrete aspects; an urgency that we did not only claim from our parliamentary group, that we did not only claim from Citizens, but also from other groups and the very workers of the house. Therefore, today we are taking a step forward, not defining – not defining –, not much less, but we are taking a step forward – and it is important, too; we owe it to the workers of public media, because democracy is absolutely intolerable the degree of government intervention that our communications professionals have to bear – a step to improve the prestige of public institutions, so as to guarantee the plurality of public media, as well as to reinforce merit as a foundational criterion in the selection process of their guidelines. This law, or this law change, has an apartment that talks about the ACC. It is for all known the position of Ciutadans respect the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia. That is to say, we have always been in favour of its suppression, and we are not in favour of it, since we consider that it is an organ that has demonstrated at the length of its decisions that it only serves to whiten the excesses eaten from the directions of these public media. However, precisely because of this willingness, we have negotiated and accepted the reduction of the name of members of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia. It is not all we wanted, of course, but at least it notes the reservations that the Catalonian majority party, which represents more than 1.1 million Catalans, has towards this control institution. We hope and would be pleased that from then on the ACC will act in accordance with the criteria that would normally have to be regulated, of neutrality, of equanimity and of professional rigour. These are the criteria that should be met and which unfortunately are not currently met. Because how can it be – as it may be – that at the length of all these years this council has never – ever – ever – sanctioned TV3, when, for example, in the few months that the electoral period lasts, TV3_has managed to remember that it is the public medium that most violations of the principles of neutrality, objectivity and political pluralism have been achieved? And for Citizens this is very difficult, because all these violations that have occurred have been to favor a part of the separatist parties, and therefore violates the free and equal character of the elections in Catalonia. Translation: TV3 is the propaganda doping of separatist parties and the ACC, curiously, when it prepares its reports on the electoral period, oblivion of all these violations that the Administration competent, i.e., the electoral board, imposed on TV3. Or, for example, in 9-N, when it was intended to sanction media that did not want to cooperate in an illegal consultation. Now, as well as the Constitutional Court's warnings, during the election to democracy that took place in this Parliament, the CAC decided that it could not act and that it could not apply to prevent TV3 from continuing to operate as a criminal commission tool. How is it possible that you don't fessin' a _sol requirement? How is that possible? That's why today we're going to keep the message that we were going to present with regard to the suppression of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia. And Citizens will continue to defend that these nearly 6_million euros that are destined for the ACC and that cost us this vagina body destined for the real needs that hold the conjunction of Catalans. On the other hand, we have the governing council of the corporation, that is, the most responsible of its media, of TV3 and of Catalonia Radio, and, therefore, protagonists and responsible of these media becoming an independent agitation machine. We have many examples. Let us look at where this television and this public radio have arrived, presumably ours, that of all Catalans, who is controlled, for example, who sings Els Segadors or not in the Parliament of Catalonia; who has a director, that of public television, who leads meetings of Junts for Catalonia, or a president in charge of the corporation who has the book of a political party, who has the book of Democratic Convergence, who says, for example, that the police attacks innocent victims across this tragic week who has seen Catalonia, who cries out to participation in the revolution that is ultimately due to Mr Torra; that some of his protagonists insult politicians and citizens perpetuates, thus, insulting apart from the medial party; that they use the word "terrorists"; that they use the word "terrorists"; that they use the word "terrorists"; that they use the word "terrorists". And so a long etcetera that the different control commissions are very pale. All this shows that there is a lot of work to be done and that what we approve of today is just a step towards having a television of everyone and everyone. And this step is what we find paramount in this law change. A change, as I said, expected many years ago on the part of the workers as well as on the part of some parliamentary groups, but it is never late when it comes up. From then on, the members of the corporate governing board will be chosen by a qualified majority of two thirds of this chamber both in the first vote and in the second vote, as correspond to the great decisions and special transcendence that are taken in our autonomous community. The responsibility of these advisors in ensuring that public media are respectful of the principles of truthfulness, pluralism and neutrality is enormous. And that is why it is essential that, in order to reach the council, the candidates are truly professional and undisputed prestige in the field of communication, more than to be obviously people capable of gathering and generating great consensus between the different sensitivities that exist in this chamber. Moreover, the proposing groups should have maintained a prior contact with these entities and with the sector's most relevant groups so as to know their views on the profiles and characteristics of these candidates. It also seems to us to be a special reminder of the addition of a public contest for its directors. We know perfectly well the difficulties that we have encountered at Radiotelevisión Espanyola, for example, respect the competition that was established. We know him. But it seems essential to us that at least the directors of the corporation are chosen by contests and that a proposal for objectives on the organization and the performance of the corporation is established, obviously taking into account the program contract – the program contract. We can't afford more party and fully ideologized directors, directors who do late-stage rallies or who don't control totally tendentious contents that are viewed on many occasions. We cannot allow – we cannot allow – public media to expel more than half of Catalans. I, any mechanism we can put on the table to guarantee or try to guarantee the greater objectivity of the guidelines of the public media, will always find us at your side to develop it. I have said this many times in this Chamber: from the city we will always defend public media of plural and objective communication, which has as its end the public service that they must give and that they are not in the service of an ideology. Many Catalans – many Catalans – are tired of seeing the manipulation that is given day by day to our radio and to our public television; we are tired of seeing how public money is destined to generate separatist propaganda. And the modification of this law as a minimum will help to make plurality a little easier to settle down. There are many things left to change in the future, it's obvious to talk about what kind of public television we want, from top to bottom, what's its structure, what's its organizational chart to have, what's the paper that's also going to adopt the same workers in the direction of the corporation, what's going on with the co-management – but this is the first step that we have to donate, and it won't hold up a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a Catalonia has a plural and diverse society, even though it weighs some. It is time that we also see it in our public media, that they are from all the citizens of Catalonia, think as they think, and that these can tune back to TV3. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.125.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of Deputy Marta Ribas, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.126.0	Good morning. Allow me to begin with a personal note. Today is one of those days, that every time they are scarcer in this Parliament, in which you go home satisfied because you have made some change, some change that will have consequences, some change that will give positive fruits. And I'm sure that what we're approving today with this law – that it's taken many years to get here – will have positive effects. I've been a deputy since 2012, in this chamber, since the end of 2012, and since I came in I've been trying to reverse that counter-reform that I had made to the beginning of that year Convergence and Union with the People's Party. They reduced the majorities needed to choose the governments of the corporation and of the Audiovisual Council, a reform that clearly sought, and thus was, to reduce the plurality of our public media and of the audiovisual regulatory body. The effects of that counter-reform of 2012 had already advanced them at that time, we have fought them from abroad, but they have suffered, basically, and they have seen each other over the last few years. The effects have been increasing the plurality in which our public media governs, united to hold them bound to negotiate the presupposition year by year, because it does not prove a multi-year programme contract..., has caused our media, our television, our public radio to have lost plurality, lost country consent and become media with a so-called direction, also by the economic element, to the wishes of the Government of the Generality. Today, we return part of the cause of everything we've been painting these years, part of this disaster. Reversing or changing the reality of everything will be slower and more complicated, not only because with the law we are not changing the governing council of the corporation or the government of the ACC, but we are only fixing new majorities and new forms to do so, to make this renewal, but because, now, the important will be to make good work and good application and, therefore, good politics from a law that we are modifying today. Now, we need to make this renewal, not cheat on the lonely, I understand what the motive and willingness to make these changes has been, which is to return to the great consensus and plurality, and at the same time, to choose a direction that can be faced whenever I care, so that we do not repartition our public communication media. One direction that, moreover, has to be rebuilt on an affluent land, because, as a public service, like the rest of the public services, our public media have also suffered from retailing, they have lost prestige between the mass part of the population, they have professional crematotes that have suffered EROs, they have a territorial structure and weaker channels than they have been a few years ago, they have major investments pending, they have the risk of losing updates and adaptation to the new realities of the global audiovisual sector and, on this land, it is on which to work a new direction, a new government of the corporation. But, besides, as I said, because the main objective I think you're going to have to hold the new corporate government and the new direction will be, if it wasn't possible to do it before, to lock up urgently a program contract that you've been presupposing to our public communication media. Sufficiently stabilized, sufficiently equipped, because there has not been a programme since 2010 and this links, year by year, to a submission to the Government of the Generality, which cannot continue to allow. But as much as the repte continues to feel great, I, today, as I said, will go away satisfied, because I have put my little grit, on behalf of my parliamentary group, to make it easier for the way that you deal with it from now on to get better, to get better, to get better, to do it with better circumstances and better conditions. It was also a political and professional consensus that, for decades, prior to that harmful counter-reform of Convergence and Union and of the People's Party, but it was also a political consensus that, during the decades, it had allowed to build a system of public audiovisual media in Catalonia with guarantees of pluralism, of truth, that they understood that their main mission is to guarantee the right to information from the citizenry, or hereafter, one of the main pots for there to be democracy. Decades of construction of a modern audio-visual regulation also old for the quality and of a control body that the whole Catalan audiovisual field could be suitable for as a reference and that, moreover, was also in the style of the references of the rest of Europe. This is what we need to recover again, and I think that this is what we are looking at today as recovery, despite speeches, despite words that have been said before that I, in this faristol, grandiose, incense, despite words, facts are that today we are regaining consensus. We're going back to what we had before 2012, before the retail or, at least, we're looking at the way to try to be there again. I have finished this part of introduction, let us say, thanking the rest of the work to the rest of the work, to the cast, to the servants of the chamber and, especially, the constancy of the professionals of the corporation and also of the college of journalists, of the unions, of the undertakings of the audiovisual sector, who, during all these years, have been demanding, once and for all, to the Parliament, that we act in order to guarantee a more public, more pluralistic media, a more professional management, a guarantee of independence and plurality and to continue advancing and to keep admiring ourselves in the rest of Europe on this subject. Therefore, many thanks to all. And now, yes, I want to highlight some of the points that are changing from the law, what we're doing today, what we're really changing. So, for us, there were a few that were key and that we already said from the beginning of the process of this law that we wouldn't admit down these points. The main one, totally reverse those changes made for Convergence and Union and the People's Party with the counter-reform of the year 2012, or continue, qualified and expanded majorities of the Parliament, proposals of names with multiple support from an initiative to constitute the governments of the corporation and the ACC. The requirement also applies to candidates and candidates to be in the corporate government, to submit a management project, so that they can be assessed with contingencies about what they will be doing to the corporation's governing council. I don't think you're a minor. They have again introduced qualified majorities also for some of the decision-making presses, the big decisions to be made from the corporate governing council. Nor is it smaller, given what has happened in the past few years in some of these decisions. And also added the guarantee of parity in the governing body of the corporation and also of the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia, not with the courage proposed by the CUP, in this case, and we regret it, but I think it served because, as a minimum, we guarantee that the Law of equality claims us. And we've added a public selection process for the Televisión de Catalunya and Catalunya Radio and the audiovisual media of all companies in the company. Other novelties that have been introduced to the text, perhaps minor, but also important. The condition of members of the governing councils of the corporation and the CAC at the top of the Generality, not only in the incompatibilities, but also in the subs, which also last years, on multiple occasions, we had complained that I was not feeling that way. The obligation to declare incompatibilities. That, in the approval of the corporate program contract, it guarantees the compliment of the agreed collectors and the participation of the representatives of the workers and workers. Retention of accounts to the control committee of this Parliament from all directions and all directions of the corporation. And it reinforces the role of the Corporate Contingent Advisor Council and, therefore, of civil society participation spaces in corporate control. We regret, however, that we did not get one of the themes that we thought was key to taking a step further, a step forward to go to models, which was to introduce the co-management model into the corporate governance board. We have all had to finish making divestitures in order to reach these consensuses and return to the great consensuses of the country, which does not mean that we will not continue to believe that it is necessary and will continue to insist that we move forward. On the other hand, two proposals have been put forward by us from the Co-Management Commission, which were made by the TV3 workers, which was that there is a plan of participation to structure and encourage the participation of the workers in the corporate strategy of corporate enterprises, but also a plan of functions that clearly defines the internal structures that are ad hoc and efficient. I believe that neither is the effect that these two elements introduced into the law can have long term. And there are three items, three items that we have failed to introduce to the text and that we wanted to keep alive until today's plenary and explain them very briefly. One, the Emena 40, which claims to include social criteria also in the external contracts that make the companies of the corporation, or so, that those contracts that make the media of the corporation have to demand compliments of working conditions or codes of ethics of the profession to those enterprises contracted for TV3 or for Catalunya Ràdio. We haven't been able to introduce it during the pose, we keep it alive until today, so it's values like lime if today we can't fix this wrong and finish introducing it. And two aspects that do not touch either the governance of the corporation or the Audiovisual Council – in fact, do not touch these issues – but that we also wanted to keep alive because we believe that they are also important and urgent and what they do is to ask the government for regulations, regulations on two issues pending for a long time and that they also call the cell. One, which is once again the regulation of the third communications sector, the third audiovisual sector, the Community and social media, and the other, which is fixed criteria of objectivity, transparency and complementarity of labour standards, of the requirement of the compliment of labour standards in the award of institutional advertising or subsidies to private media by the Generality; transparency, the requirement of compliments and also of criteria of objectivity in subsidies and aids or the institutional publicity made by the Government of the Generality in private enterprises. I believe that, at a later stage, there have been worrying reports of continued subjective and low level of objective and low level of professional response to any of these aids or subsidies to private media. I'm done. Today, it respects a theme that is no less, we regain consensus, we regain consensus about the public audiovisual model in Catalonia. We know that it is only a step, that we can approach it much more, but that, without moving forward in this concrete step, we could not go any further there. We will be demanding so that we do not stay here, be demanding because this renewal of the governing bodies of the corporation and also of the ACC is made, following these majorities and this plurality, reinforced by you now, understand what is the purpose of what we are modifying in the law today and not making us remember Frankenstein, closed doors, which do not respond to what is the final purpose of this modification. And to be demanding because everything folded allows to go to the object that I think we are pursuing, that is to return prestige, pluralism and the mission of public service as in principle that is never passed on to our public television and radio and to the governing body of the entire audiovisual sector of the country. Now, I end up with one last reference to join the clam of these days of the journalists, claiming that there are no more attacks, neither on the part of the police nor on the part of the people who are demonstrating, the professionals who are doing their work to inform us of what is going on in the street. Because without journalism there is no one to guarantee us the right to information and, therefore, democracy is lame. But, above all, without plural, professional and free journalism. And today, what we're doing with this law is trying to make it easier for our public media to have more guarantees of plural, professional and free journalism in their daily exercise. As it goes, let's add to the protests of the professionals: no more assaulting journalists on the street. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.127.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it is the turn of the deputy Natalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.128.0	Good morning, all of you. Today, despite the normality of what could be a plenary as usual or an ordinary plenary, we want to start by remembering and putting the color and the head and the fight into the twenty-seven young undertakings unjustly and, basically, with a concrete objective: we cannot allow normality to be established before the gravity of the facts, before the violence and police brutality and before a repression of which, as we have said, the Government of the Generality has not been responsible, if we analyse the concrete facts. We want them all free and we want them home. Also a hug to their families. About what we're dealing with at this point, the companies have already said, first of all, thanks to the workers and the workers of the public media. They are the ones who have mainly suffered from this issue and this urgent need to renew the law. Thank you for your persistence. And, second, I also add myself to the graces of all the speakers; despite the differences, despite the different points of view, we have come to a consensus, which is basically in the urgency of the least that was raised or that was in need..., which led us to the partial modification of this law. We need two years to get here, as long as I'm a member of the House, but we've already come from last year's legislature. When the colleagues in the previous parliamentary group did this to me, I felt that there was a consensus, but that consensus was difficult to engegar, it was difficult to engegar the procedure. The layman – whom we also thank for his work – said that we have worked urgently and quickly. Well, we had to work urgently and quickly, because it was difficult to register the petition for a consensus that had already been worked in the previous legislature. And we think it's worth highlighting it, too. On the need to recover and to consider the reform that the government did in 2012, we want to point out that we have arrived and recovered the need for some large majority of people, in order to be able to choose the council of the "body, etc., but it has not been enough, we have liked to get there more. Because we do not forget that the problem of the council that capped Mr. Brauli was not of a small majority – he voted for the government group, Convergence and Union, but also the other two, the PSC and the PP; it was approved, that council, with a large majority – ; the problem is that Mr. Brauli Duart was not the professional profile required by the public media. Actually, now we see him at the Interior Council; you see where we'll end up seeing Mr. Brauli Duart. And, I add, in the context in which we find ourselves, when we ask ourselves what or who does that Mr. Buch hasn't yet assumed his political responsibilities in relation to the Squad moss, we might also have to look at it here. As we have done, as we have tried to improve, and the election, as we have already done, for the most part qualified, should make it easier, but it is not guaranteed; we have not arrived far enough. We have worked on the issues in this sense and advocate that the priority of disparting and resolving the governance problems of the Catalan Audiovisual Council is through these vast majority. And also, as the Catalonian company has already said, we regret that we have not been able to incorporate the demands of workers and workers in relation to co-management. Co-management was a good way, a good way to democratize, to disengage, to generate public media that are governed by professionalism, by a public service and not party to the service of some or some majorities that can change every four years, or every two years, or whenever elected. And that's a big problem with what he's doing to public media strategy. We want this agreement that we arrive at today not to serve to close the corporation to the party and that actually serves the objectives that we have set for ourselves. Many challenges are missing – it has already been said: financing, co-management, taking up the envelope of the template, the program contract... –, many more questions in which we have not been able to deepen. For what he does to the CUP, we also feel satisfied that we could have incorporated and found consensus with the rest of the groups regarding the need to make explicit in the law the need to complete the Law 17/2015, of effective equality between men and women, which does not only say that it is a match in the organs, but also says that all the organs that are able to work cannot begin to develop their pocket until this match is guaranteed. And it's a very important thing that there's this blockage of organs if it doesn't complete this match, because then it's all excuses, "it's..., isn't it? Therefore, if we apply measures to literally block organs, we can also guarantee what we call, right? , through these positive action measures to make the presence of women in the organs of power, of direction, more present. We also made a proposal that I liked... didn't we? I think that Mrs Marta Ribas has said so boldly. Yeah, they assume you're bold. We've made a statement that we've kept alive because we want to talk about it. We know that he does not have the consensus and that he is bold, but we do want to talk about a proposal that we could say to the Kurdish; a proposal in which also through the philosophy and the principle that positive action is a useful tool to solve the issues of parity, to solve the exclusion of women in the areas of leadership, in the areas of government... And we proposed that the directions, that the presidencies of the governing council are co-chaired, that they are formed by a man and a woman who has equal power and decision making. It was not possible, but we defend this model in Kurdish. And also, from here, from this Faristol, a hug to the Kurdish people, a hug, and we are here, from Catalonia, dempeus amb Rojava. And we also report that Pedro Sánchez has the bar and the cynicism of dialogue with Mr Erdogan, who is committing crimes against humanity and against the Kurdish people, and does not dare to pretend to speak to the people of Catalonia. Finally, adding a further argument on the question of the need for co-management, co-presidency, ultimately cooperation in the organs and public institutions. From this perspective we consider that we will have a few media and governance tools in every sense, not just in public media, more democratic, more citizen-friendly and truly more equitable. Finally, recalling that the workers and workers of this house have suffered a great deal from the consequences of the retailing, the consequences of the changes of that government, which with the same law wanted to captivate the public system of this country. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.129.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The rest of the parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. In the first place, has the word the deputy David Pérez, of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC - Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.130.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Senyora i señoor conseller... Allow me, Mr President, just a few minutes to show our solidarity with the media professionals who are working all these days to offer society a decent, quality, plural and truthful journalism, and who are lately working in a truly unfair situation. I also take this opportunity to greet the representatives of the CCMA governing committee. And to do..., to read quickly a statement that has made Reporters Without Borders these days in which he comments that the work of journalism has become a high-risk work for informants: insults, increpaciones, throwing objects, pushes and all kinds of physical and verbal aggression that draws an absolutely desolating panorama for press freedom. I also take this opportunity to greet the Fabri, David, Carlos, Carlos and Manel of JS, and send them a fraternal greeting as well. And I'll be right back, Mr. President, back to order. Every day that passes – every day that passes the number of people who see TV3 and Catalunya Radio is smaller, it is smaller. And, in this sense, people who are not independent have practically spent in five years from 50-57 percent to 7 percent. That's worrying, and I've said it on many occasions, and we also give it to the control committee; it has a few reasons and it also has consequences. The motius? I think this is going through the same processor that they have as much TV3 as Catalunya Radio. And also because of the lack of pluralism. And it's in this sense that I also have a few words that a representative of the Catalonian Journalists' Union said in a statement that they denounce this issue. Give these professionals, about plurality to the media..., that they say it is the best contribution that can be made from TV3 and Catalunya Radio not to be part of the conflict but to the contrary: contribute to their solution by providing all the points of view and not favoring some who are casually those of political power. What are we talking about right now? We're talking about a law, it's said, that it's about modification and that it's trying to solve the governance problems that at this time have the communication media, the public communication media. We're going back to 2005, we're going back to the tripartite, we're going back to the law that made the tripartite, the law that we never... should have lost. And, therefore, we are in a moment, in a change, that they want to respect urgently the aspects related to the organs of governance and governance, and that I think that somehow they also try to have enough time to make a good diagnosis of the reforms required thinking about the future and looking to the future. It is, therefore, the opportunity to move forward with public communication means that, independent and faithful to the parliamentary mandate, must offer a programming and quality information, and return to the governance criteria that we have already had, two-thirds and broad consensus; a service that fosters the principles and values that lead to tolerance, diversity, equality and coexistence. We personally feel very proud of the work that has been done; all, all, absolutely all of our papers are incorporated, have been traded or have been, let's say, somehow incorporated into the text. And it is in this sense that we are personally very proud of the end result, especially in the public selection process for the directors, but not throughout the board of government; the topic of reinforced two-thirds majority and the topics related to professionalism and experience. It has been a while since this situation, this change of situation, has led to the fact that the public media are not really as plural as we would like. And this has had some consequences: there is practically the half of the population that you no longer see TV3; the reasons are obvious. But this also has some consequences, and some do not want to see them, but it has some linguistic consequences, has some civic, cultural, economic and journalistic consequences. When you practically don't see TV3, this has linguistic consequences. When practically half the children in this country no longer grow up with Club Super3, this has some linguistic consequences. And you don't want to see it, but that's it – that's it. After that, "man, it's that the duck isn't talking right now... Home, it has some consequences, when the half of the population has stopped watching TV3. And it has some cultural consequences and some civic consequences when the size of this country has no longer grown with a public channel that explains the reality of this country. And it has some journalistic consequences when TV3 has stopped carrying the first-hand journalistic report to the country's side. You don't want to see it, but that's exactly it. And it has some economic consequences, actually. The publication on TV3 and Catalunya Radio's public channels and media has fallen, and continues to decline. There are other reasons, Mr. Pujol, absolutely agree, there are other reasons, but this too – this too – because the half of the population has already stopped watching TV3. If you can be very happy with everything that's going on, very satisfied with this situation, but this is bringing the CCMA to a situation without exit – without exit. This way, it has already been explained by other companies..., this way that there has been no plurality in governance has led to that neither has there been plurality, the plurality need, in the public media. Therefore, I insist, we have to return to this plurality, it is demanded, we ask it permanently to the Commission, but we are not the only ones who are doing it, the sector is also doing it. And I can't finish my intervention on public media without talking about the program contract; I've always done it, I've always done it in committee, and I'll do it today too. The programme contract – and now the councillor has arrived – is absolutely essential – is absolutely essential – it is the one that gives economic and financial stability. The corporation is the one that gives the workers of the corporation the status. We've been complaining about it for years. His predecessor did, Mr. Homs, say, "We already have him here, he's already here, the week we approve of him. There's no way. The last contract program was tripartite – it was tripartite – and then we don't have a contract program now. This represents a question, which when the presidents, the directors of the "body need money must go to the government to claim money. Why? Because they don't have this kind of funding. And it's imperative. For our part, all the support. Think..., you see, and there's no excuse to say: "No, it's the marc program that's missing. No, no, the marc program is on, it's on until there's another one. It's fully in place. Is it old? Yes, but it remains absolutely in force. I understand that there is a lot going on, but I must also say, Counselor, that there are already two of his predecessors who tell us that we are going on a lot, and there is no way – and there is no way. Because if this isn't done, the corporation is at risk – it's at risk. And the worst thing that can happen is that there's a risk of financing the corporation. I ended, logically, also, finally, with the thanks also to the rest of the companies, especially the rapporteur, the company, the rapporteur deputy, also Mr Bayona, Iletrat – is it this way? – and to the rest of the workers and servants of the chamber. And a treat to my friends. Now we have an obligation, we have the law, huh? Now we have an obligation to put names on it, to reach an agreement, the same way that we have reached an agreement among all of us, now we have to reach an agreement among all of us, and we have to agree among all of us, huh? And we have to agree with them, calmly, as we did today, as we will today, with Esquerra, with Juntes per Catalunya, with the companies of the CUP - Constituent Creed, with In Comú Pode. We have to come to an agreement with everyone, with everyone that's possible, huh? And if we come to this agreement, then, if we have reached an agreement with everyone and until the last minute, not that we then pull back because we have reached an agreement with people that we can't reach agreements, right? We have reached an agreement today, and we lack the definite agreement, which is to put people, companies, companies, professionals to govern the public media of the corporation. All right, all right, Many thanks, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.131.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of MP Esperança García, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.132.0	Bon dia, deputies and deputies. I will try to go quickly because I have half the time that other parliamentary groups have. There are already various legislatures that we are trying to work to modify the CAC Law and also the Corporation Law. That from here comes a deep thanks to all the speakers, to the rapporteur and to the committee's letter of effort. We've done what we've been able to since our group volunteered, but we're here, aren't we? Where are we going with this modification of the ACC Law? Well, we understand that it was necessary, we understand that he had to face it once and for all, but we don't have so much confidence that it's enough, do we? Despite that, we'll give them support. What has ACC done over the last few years? What we believe is that its function shows that it has served only to censor and sanction communication media that were not nationalists, public and private. It also served as no control of pirate broadcasts, both television and radio, which is also a phone tool that the CAC has. It has also served, with its resolutions, as a full endorsement of all the manipulation and nationalist hispanophobia that characterize the broadcasts of Catalunya Radio and TV3. But, despite this, we understand that functionality is positive. Despite the questionable function of the last few years, we believe that there is still room for a small benefit, escàs, from its correct functioning and accurate to the law, not only to its law, but to its existence, predetermined by the State. With this change..., what made members of the ACC those people who have experience in the audiovisual sector think it's a positive thing. We also believe that it is a positive thing that agreements are made with reinforced majorities and that the push of the president's golden vote does not follow the resolve. That's what we think it is, that it could be an adventure. Now, they're going to leave TV3 and Catalonia Radio saying they're putting their own parts more than half the Catalan population, because it's not nationalist, is it fat? We don't think so. Will you succeed in bringing this to Catalonia Radio and TV3 at the call to urban terrorism that they have made in the last few days, in the most tragic black week we've ever lived in Catalonia? I don't think so. Will you stop calling for the Civil Guard or the 3/24 tweets saying that the National Police humiliates and ill-treats a young man who was making kale borroka in Via Laietana? They're afraid we won't. We're afraid we won't, but this doesn't have to stop us trying to get better, with the tools we have at the bottom of our hands, the functioning of these us, both of the CAC and the Corporate Council. Now, I'll give you a thought, because a lot of things have been said since this Faristol. Where are we coming from? Because it seems to me that we're manipulating a little. We traditionally come from laws that allow both the CAC and the Council to choose their members with qualified majority of two-thirds, right? And these qualified two-thirds majorities were the ones that would make it possible to impermeable the election of the members of these two organs of interference and manipulation or abuses of majorities by the return government. That's to say, they were, let's say, a clause, a guarantee not to politicize us and not to govern us. Now, this has changed, and it has changed precisely because those who started the reform of the CAC Law and the Council of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans were the lords of the tripartite, it was these lords who, as they had a fundamental crisis with the march of Mr. Sáez of the Presidency of the Corporation and the impossibility of appointing Mr. Marin, changed this law. There are deputies who say: "Yes, yes, yes, yes. So, they introduced a possibility, and it was... – and it's a wonderful decree that I have here, signed for Mr Montilla and Mr Tresserras – they introduced the possibility of lowering this demand, let's say, democratic and non-political, and they lowered this two-thirds majority to an absolute majority, that is, to have well controlled from the government the means of public communication, those that are, presumably, of all Catalans. Well, now we have another law. Stop blaming the others when you did what you did. Now, I'm also telling you, if we follow the tradition of two-thirds and there's no second vote, despite calling for agreements, the reality is that we are likely to have both a CAC and a council with the same members as before we approve this law. In fact, it means that one positive thing is that we follow with the same name as members of the CAC and the corporation, that we reduced them with this law that you mentioned from here on in the Faristol and that we thought it was positive from the point of view of efficiency and management responsible for public resources. We'll vote for it, I've said it before. We will vote for it and it is a little hopeful vote, we do not deceive ourselves, because we believe that reform should not only be of the governing bodies of the corporation and of the Audiovisual Council, because what is to be done is a profound reflection of what is the model of Catalan public communication media we want. Not only are they viable, but they are reliable, objective, plural, as is Catalan society. And now what is proving itself is that I read the public communication media in Catalonia only respond to..., the dreams of half the Catalan population and are the nightmare and the continuous insult of the other half.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.133.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the deputy Adriana Delgado, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.134.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counsellor, advisors, deputies, deputies, professional representatives, Mr. Gordillo, good morning to everyone. This was said earlier by the rapporteur and indeed by all the companies that have participated in this reform of the organisational standards of the audiovisual sector, we are voting for a text that takes back as much consensus as possible, the result of the work on this proposal, of the agreements reached, which also means resignations on the part of all the groups. It has been demonstrated in this way that the different groups have worked willingly, making a very great effort to deal with many of the articles. But also – and it was said – it has to be recognized that these few points that generated consensus have been touched: the election of members and those of governance. And they're still debating it, as co-management has also been mentioned, and we need to find this consensus, and we need to do this job for a new model of the corporation. There has also been talk of the delay in making this approval, but I would also like to remind you that, while the amendment was pending with a text already agreed at the end of the last parliamentary term, the anomalous situation that we suffered caused 155 political activity to cease, the Government intervened, there were some scheduled elections because the independence groups did not win them, nor did we continue to rule legitimately as until then, when the repression brought social and political leaders to power. But finally this legislature, and all the initial problems and the more repression and the more entrepreneurship, began with this reform on the table. And I think it has to be said that the ponence, when it went off, so it went ahead with the idea. That's what he said, too. Yes, we may say so, but I think we need to take all the conditions into account. For what our group, the Group Republicà, does to the work of the poenència, we have already explained to it other times since the Faristol, it was especially necessary to return to the criteria of governance of 2007, with great qualified majority, to return to this parliamentary culture of two thirds of the Parliament to sort out the members of the ACC and the governing council of the corporation. Other main agreements, and to which we have supported, have been that the professional directions of TV3 and Catalunya Radio are chosen by public competitions – also discussed –, even though we believe that it has not remained entirely settled. Also, the name of the advisors of the corporation and the ACC has been extended, because this implies, as a consequence, an extensive representation in these organs. They have also introduced changes to choose them. It is also true that we defended that there were seven members in both organs for this extensive representation, precisely, and also for a question of procedure at the time of choosing them, while in the end, for the ACC, it was decided that there were five members. We have also given support, as it cannot be in any other way, to the reinforcement of betting. And we also believe that it is a priority for us to renew our strands. We are asked by the workers and, in fact, for a matter of expiration but also for a matter of avoiding precariousness, so for the sake of the corporation. Our group also wanted to introduce to it the figure of the director general, that it is not the same person as the president of the corporation as it is now, especially for a matter of management also from day to day, but did not find the support of any other groups. For what it does to the reserved items that have been explained from Ciutadans, In Comú Pode and the CUP, we will not support them, basically because we have not had time to deal with all these themes that we had on the table. I insist on it and everyone has said it, it's a text that comes from a minimal consensus, that we focus on governance issues. Therefore, we believe that you did not feel to keep them, if we have not debated these future reforms. We also had an interest in issues that remained outstanding. I have already commented on the co-management; also the co-presidency that defended the company of the CUP. Let's not say no, but the willingness to pull forward the reform has made this debate impossible, there has been no deep reflection, and everyone – as I said before – has made their own divestitures. And we believe that, in coherence, therefore, we have already withdrawn the unrecommended items. In the case of Ciutadans, in his dream, it is not just that; obviously there is no model coincidence. I believe that I must make this criticism: they fill their mouths with plurality and that the Catalan Government does not control the media, when they want a government of the State that intervenes and controls, or which directly controls. And they're holding this petition for the CAC's suppression, which guarantees quality, and we could say it's an anti-statutory issue. According to you, you should not have accepted to process and thereby violated the Statute and disobeyed, you, the Constitutional Court. And as we get used to it when we talk about the Catalan public media – and today, in theory, what we should do is talk about the laws – there are those who take advantage of advertising to discredit them; we, the Republican Group, what we do is a strong defense of the corporation, of TV3, of Catalonia Radio, of its workers and of the great task they make to inform, analyze, explain what goes on, all the pressures, all the interferences, all the controls, all the aggressions, yes, also the aggressions, all the aggressions. And from here, too, we support all professionals, as long as they are. Let us return to these public media, which in Catalonia have been very important in moving forward with the country, which have been an indispensable tool of self-government, linguistic normalization, quality assurance and motor of the audiovisual sector in Catalonia. And I make an incise, bringing some data, too, because there was criticism of the lack of plurality, the lack of good hearings. We have studies of opinion, of the CEO and of the CIS, which confirm that these media are the most plural. There is a report that says "Consumer and perception of the audiovisual media in Catalonia, with data on the degree of objectivity and plurality of televisions and radios, which are the ones that get a better score. TV3 is the preferred channel for information; TV3 is the channel that you see more than before, and only a given, of the past dive, day of general travel. TV3 was the audience leader, with a 20.7_per_cent share. And there are all channels of the corporation, with a 27,5_per_cent, apart from – for example – the months and months of leadership of the evening Telenews. I'm done. To reiterate that, while it is small, it is a step forward, an important step for the public media in our country, for their workers. It's important, because I'm also a pillar of democracy. We defend our media, the freedom to work with journalists and other professionals in public radio and television, and what they have to do is inform with all the guarantees. Yes, with disgovernment, but do not depoliticize, because they must be incisive, they must question, they must be able to question, they must explain, they must analyze, they must take part and they must inflate. Therefore, we do not share the report of false neutrality, that what he seeks is to misrepresent and discredit them. Finally, Congressman Riera started with the thanks, I will end with these thanks, which have been repeated. To thank the rapporteur for putting, to the rest of the Members and Members of Parliament, also to the Iletrat Bayona, to the rest of Parliament's services, in order to make it possible for us, among all, today, finally, to vote on this proposal. And I would also like to thank all the work done beforehand for the Gerard Gómez del Moral – he was the deputy we had, representing our position – and also the work shared with the deputy Raquel Sans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.135.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, with this turn of parliamentary groups, I would like to correspond to Mr Josep Riera, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, making his intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.136.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselors, deputies, deputies, guests, this is a good day for parliamentarianism; today we will approve with a broad consensus this expected you. I will not repeat most of the things I have said before as the rapporteur of the question, nor will I make a strictly political or partisan speech about public media, often based more on perceptions than on actual data, some of which have been donated to them by Adriana's company. I don't think that's what it's about today. Because today we will have a law that strengthens and improves the governance of people who govern public media and who regulate and control them. And therefore, of the public audiovisual media. Not in the exact way that would please each group, but that's consensual things; consensus, however, is always good. And, therefore, the end result is good. What do we have on this law? We have, from the outset, a reinforcement of the majority, we have all said, of the requirements for the election of the members of the Corporate Governance Council, and of the Audiovisual Council. It returns, as has been said, to a majority of two thirds of this Parliament for the election of these members. That, to be sure, is a reinforcement of the necessary consensus. Therefore, a more democratic endorsement of their choice, but also – and this does not escape anyone or anyone – also forces us all to do politics, to do good politics. Because the demands we impose on ourselves to make the renewal of these organizations are – indeed – demanding. But it's good that this is the case, which is why I would like to say, too, that we should also make every effort to be respectful of any agreement that is in place to renew these bodies if this agreement meets the requirements of the law. That it is no longer talking about agreements between parties or parties, because any agreement that completes the law will not be one thing or the other; it will be an agreement between parliamentary groups, because it is like the law that we make it. The new law also aims to strengthen the competence and professionalism profile of members of the Audiovisual Council and the Corporate Governance Council. And it does, in concepts such as consulting with entities and groups in the audiovisual sector of Catalonia, to propose the most up-to-date profiles. And to the experience already required in the previous text, it is added that, preferably, they are from the audiovisual sector. And also, that these aspirants are to present a management project. In this way, it is obvious that it reinforces the competence and professionalism of those who are ultimately chosen. That does not mean, either, that the current members do not follow. For this reason, both for the nine majorities and for the applicants' requests, we would also do each other a favor if we stop talking so much about politics or government; terms that, often, are used to disqualify the management of the corporation and the ACC, or the media. The term "governmentalization" should already have been framed when, in a previous reform, the corporation ceased to depend organically on the Government of the Generality and went on to depend on the Parliament. And then, the main disqualification was political and partisanship. Yes, it is clear that it is political – and Adriana said it –, it is clear that it is political to choose those responsible for these, but it is the law that asks us. And besides, I repeat, it's good that this is the case, that I reclaim politics as an instrument to reach agreement, both for what it does to what we're talking to today, and for most of the things we do here, certainly. And on partisanship, the law does not ask the parties, it asks the parliamentary groups and the assembly of these parliamentary groups represent the citizens of the country. Other highlights of the law: the proposal to select the directors of public media from a public selection procedure. As well as experiences like the Spanish public media, where the public competition complicates and complicates the appointments, we have chosen to introduce this concept, because among all of us we believe that, if it is right, the public media will benefit from it. And certainly the other aspect that can be highlighted from the reform that we present is the reinforcement of the requirements of gender parity in the composition of these organizations. At this point, it is fair to recognize the leadership of the CUP with the reviews on this issue. We haven't been as far as they'd like, but most of us believe that one thing is to guarantee parity and another, that it ends up at a point that can make it difficult for these bodies to manage properly, as would be the case with the doubling of the powers of the Presidency and the Vice-President, but betting, at these heights, is already a must that we have. And now that I'm talking about the CUP papers, I also want to say that the reserved papers of the Comú Pode Group, most of them will have to be dealt with in the reform of the Audiovisual Law, which the Councillor of Presidency has already announced that she is working there. And that Ciutadans' statements about the suppression of the ACC, obviously we would vote against it, because we did not intend to suppress the Council of the Audiovisual, as neither did you, in Andalusia, where you govern. And about the program contract I also wanted to say... first we have to do a job here in Parliament, which is the warrant, and we'll do it too, but let's go for passes. It's been long enough for us to get here, where we are today, so it's a job that we're already looking at and doing. In relation to the content of the reform, we also need to clarify the change in the name of members of the Audiovisual and Corporate Council, the ACC goes from six members to five, and the Corporate Governance Council, from six to seven. Since our group, we have argued that the number of members had to be adapted, above all, to the management needs of each body, and the end result does not leave us dissatisfied, because both the five of the ACC and the seven of the corporation are sticky figures because the work is distributed as lime. And also, among other things, it's regulated how to convey the participation of workers in the good governance of the corporation and also to congratulate us. In short, we do not believe that neither the CAC nor the corporation has a model problem, because all political debates in public media and its management and regulatory and control bodies, public media are a very good reference to what this country is, as it changes with time in this country. And both the corporation and the CAC have been able to stay in the public service functions that require the laws of this Parliament and, with the data that Adriana's company has carried, so it is also proven that this is the case. We don't think there's a model problem, and the model, fortunately, isn't touched, it's better, it's reinforced, it's power. I would have liked to finish my intervention here, because I thought that those who have made memory of it would have been more tuned, but as Mrs Esperanza García has already recalled, who has done the work, the Law of the Corporation, for which she does the majority of the election of her members, has been modified on two occasions. The first, through a decree, the Decree Illi 2/2010, of March 30, when the President of the Generalitat was Mr. José Montilla and the Councillor of Culture, of whom at that time the corporation, Mr. Joan Manel Tresserras, was at the expense. And the second time, effectively, through the Law 2/2012, of 22 February, amending various laws in audiovisual matter, I am president of the Generality of Mr.Artur Mas. By way of Decree Law 2/2010 of March 30th, an apartment was added to which an absolute majority vote was entered for the election of the replacement members and for the election of the president from among – at that time – twelve members of the Corporate Governance Council. And the second modification was – as I said – with Law 2/2012, of February 22, and here the composition of the governing council was lowered to six members and the election was extended one-second, by an absolute majority, to all members of the governing council. This is the timeline. And now, once we've made this clarification, today that we can look forward again, instead of looking back, we celebrate the approval of a law that is good for who to be good, first of all, that is the city of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.137.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then again, as the Presidency Counsellor asked to speak, we would give her the word. He'll advise when he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.138.0	Right now. Thank you very much, President. Members, Members, Councillors and Councillors, I just wanted to take the word to thank, to thank and to congratulate all the parliamentary groups here present, in the chamber, so this will has allowed this consensus to be reached by all and each of the groups here present. I think it is important that this consensus, because it will allow us to bring forward this amendment of the law, this amendment that has already..., as Members and Members have recalled, therefore, in their interventions, this proposal, which already comes from previous legislatures and which was not finally approved in the previous legislature because it was given by end and which we have been able to recover now in this legislature. It will now be warm, however, from this approval, political will, to continue with this political will and with this work that must enable us to reach this consensus, because we will need the majorities necessary to elect the members of the two organizations. Therefore, I am pleased to continue with this will of dialogue, with this will of consensus so important in what we have come to do here, honourable Members and Members, that is to do politics. And so we move on to politics, we move on to consensus, we move on to the pact, and that's always mediating the dialogue. Therefore, very much congratulated and forward. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.139.0	Thank you, Counselor. We call for a vote, once the debate is over. [[Long break.]] We called for a vote. We shall vote in the first place on the reserved items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. We are voting, therefore, as we say, on items 1 and 2, reserved by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 35 votes in favour, 93 against and no abstentions. We now vote on the reserved items of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, which are numbers 40, 54 and 55. The vote begins. The reserved items of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú may have been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 80 against and 35 abstentions. And now we vote on the reserved slogan of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, which is the theme number 57. The vote begins. The reserved slogan of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 116 against and no abstentions. And let us now vote on the rest of the opinion. The vote begins. The remainder of the opinion was adopted unanimously, i.e. 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Therefore, the Proposal for a partial amendment law of Law 2/2000, of the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia, has been approved. [[Greetings.]] And before the session is suspended, the fact is that, at the request of the Government, point 3, relating to the Decree of 14/2019, authorizing the creation of 750 places of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and 250 places of the Cos de Bombers of the Generalitat de Catalunya, will be replaced by a copy of the four questions corresponding to points 8, 10, 11 and 9, in this order; tomorrow at midday the first two motions, points 12 and 13, will be replaced, and tomorrow at late noon the remaining five motions will be replaced. Therefore, can we change the order of the day in this sense? Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the Arabs]] [[401-00019/12]] And before we suspend, we'll read an institutional statement out of the caretakers who have suffered from a part of the country this past night, who will read the secretary Adriana Delgado, who asks you to read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.140.0	« Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the iguats. The Parliament of Catalonia shows its condolences and solidarity with victims and missing persons, affected and harmed by the aid of the country's last days, to its relatives, to the communities and institutions of the territory. The Catalonian Parliament highlights once more the value and professionalism of all public servants, volunteers and all those who are working on individual titles and from the joints in the recovery and support tasks in these intensive work hours. Finally, the Catalonian Parliament expresses its commitment to the recovery of the territory and the need to take the necessary actions to mitigate the immediate effects of these aided people's lives, natural heritage and product fabric. Palau del Parlament, October 23, 2019. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.141.0	Thank you. We suspend the session until two-quarters of the late four. [[The session is suspended at one in the middle and five minutes and is two quarters of four in the late and two minutes. He chairs the Speaker of Parliament, accompanied by the First and Second Vice-Presidents and the First and Second Secretaries. The Secretary General and the late Esther Andreu and Fornos attend the Bureau.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.142.0	Good afternoon. It's part of the session. [[Question to the Government on water management (withdrawal)]] [[300-00184/12]] Before we begin, I am sure that the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group has withdrawn the question to the Government about water management, which was item 7 of the order of the day. Therefore, this delay will substantiate the questions that correspond to points 4, 5 and 6. [[Question to the Government on the economic effects of the political situation in Catalonia]] [[300-00181/12]] Agenda item 4 is the question to the Government on the economic effects of the political situation presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress. To expose the inquiry, the honourable Member, Alicia Romero, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.143.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon, Counselor, deputies and deputies. Mirin, he's... Time goes on to end-of-life accounts... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.144.0	Excuse me. That's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.145.0	See if they'll cut me and I didn't say anything... [[Pause.]] Now. No, go ahead, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, man, listen... no, why, I mean, she was a god-god up, you know? [[Pause.]] He's asleep, the timer. [[Pause.]] Well, now, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.146.0	Forward, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.147.0	Thank you. Well, therefore, I told them that my parliamentary group presents this question of respect, responsibility and concern for the violent acts that have taken place, which have taken place in recent days in various cities of Catalonia, and in particular in the city of Barcelona. We have said this, and I think I can repeat it, we can't be the ones to condemn violence; we have to do it in a round-the-clock, unambiguous and unscrupulous way, he gave the Circle of Economy in a press release that he published only one day. The right to protest, the right to protest is guaranteed in our legal order; we have to guarantee it, we have to protect it, and so thousands of Catalans have exercised it that have mobilized peacefully from the publication of the verdict of the trial. He's been there. Now, we can also see that there have been people who have done so through violence, who have mobilized through violence, causing difficult, complex situations for the security of many people. We had never lived, or lived many years, in any case, that we did not live such virulent actions in our cities, causing damage, material damage and also, and unfortunately, personal damage. And, in concrete terms, he wanted to make a parentheses to send all the souls to those people who are still hospitalized and patenting, therefore, the consequences of this horrible violence. The images we have given to the world, which have turned the world around, are not positive images in general, nor are they for Catalonia, nor are they for Barcelona, nor are they, in any way, for the economy, for the Catalan economy. So, obviously, then, after all, different business associations, employers, trade unions, have mobilized; they have made various manifestos where they want to make clear what their position is before this situation of violence and before this situation generated in our country. He gave the Circle of Economy, in the manifesto, he said exactly: "It is necessary to work in a coordinated way with a single objective: to banish the violent acts of our peoples and cities. Don't focus on that would be a hard irresponsibility. This, eradicating violence, being blunt with violence, is our first obligation; it is the first obligation we have, that the government has and that the president has. I think making this message clear is the first one I can do. Counselor Chacón, I want to thank you and my group would like to thank you that these last few days you have met social and economic agents, you have listened to them, you have passed them on to them and you have been at their side at these difficult times. I have also made the Mayor of Barcelona, the first mayor, Jaume Collboni, who since the first day have been in the grip, therefore, of a very complex situation in the city of Barcelona, in order to guarantee security and return to the normality of all public services. They have also been on the side of the veins and the businessmen who have suffered, unfortunately, so, all these people. Unfortunately, whom we have not seen – whom we have not seen – he has been to the President of the Generality. President Torra, who is the most responsible of the government and the most representative of our country, cheated on coming out to condemn the violence, did so later than he was reasonable, than he was tolerable; he did not meet with social and economic agents; we did not see him with them, precisely when they were more concerned than ever about the situation in Catalonia; he did not personally visit any shops, restaurants, establishments that suffered from this violence at first hand, and we did not see him walking through streets like the Passage de Gràcia, or Via Laietana, or Gran Via, to show this confidence and transmit, therefore, this tranquility that we also need to show everyone to see that the first interested in there is no violence, and that is the Government and that is the Catalan institutions. President Torra, we have the feeling that in order not to talk about the violence, it doesn't exist, does it? , and he thinks, "If I don't talk about it..., that's as if it wasn't. But I can't ignore it and I can't deny it, because we've all seen, so we've all seen what's happened; we've all seen the images of violence that's happened these days. And he doesn't just do it from a certain irresponsibility, but he's announced more today that he's here to open or set up a commission of inquiry to analyze, so the critical attitudes that he might have..., right? , or abnormal situations that may have developed the Mosses. We have enjoyed a very explicit support for the Mossos, who are the ones who have defended and who have ensured, therefore, that there is a certain tranquility in our streets; they have passed very difficult, and we believe that it is fitting that the most political responsible given this support to the Mossos. And it doesn't just do that, but it critically wants to create this investigative commission. Neither did he go to visit them, nor did he show them his happiness and thanks for his work. We believe that this is what he was playing, to give this show of confidence, peace and security that we all need and that also needs our economy. Look, it was yesterday and we met with the councillor and some deputies on the twenty-fiveth anniversary of the Business Nit, which organizes the Czech Republic. I thought it was a good time, there, with so many entrepreneurs, because President Torra has the opportunity to clearly condemn the violence and to show a message of trust, security and stability. So he didn't do it, he didn't devote a second of his intervention to saying, "There have been violent acts, they can't produce. He didn't dedicate a second; he did the other, very hard, interventions against this violence, and he didn't do it. It must be that he thinks that if he doesn't talk about it, then he doesn't exist. I think this is not positive, because violence is not good for the Catalan economy, it is not good for the image and reputation of our country and not for the city of Barcelona. Look, we could now get into a lot of data that's been out all these days on sales losses, flight cancellations, hotel booking deletions; in other words, we could talk about all this. But we don't want to be alarmed; we think we have to be responsible, we're worried about the situation, and what it's about is trying to put measures to give another feeling and put another scene on the table. I know, counsel, that you share with us this negit, this negit because the situation is not chronic, right? You said the other day, and you're right: "In a week you don't want the Catalan economy. That's right. But if we chronicle this situation of violence, it could do a lot of damage to the economy. And, therefore, we must avoid this chronification. And a way of not criticizing it is very hard against the violent, against those who are generating this image so negative of our country and of the city, of the capital of Catalonia, as is Barcelona. Look, I've said it many times in this Parliament, not because there have been violent acts, but for, surely, times when there has been a lot of legal insecurity or the government has wanted to generate legal insecurity with the approval of some laws that have since been annulled. And we always say that, we always say that, the economy is very porous, the money is very porous, the tourism is very porous. Mirin, Daniel Kahneman, who was awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics in 2012, scientifically demonstrated – it had not been demonstrated until then – that in uncertain situations decisions are not taken on the basis of rational factors, they end up taking on the basis of other elements. There are economists who have shown very serious work and have developed an index of economic certainty and have continued to show evidence of how the results of the business evolve negatively when there is little political instability like the ones we are living at this time. So, that's proven. So much so that this morning and this noon, so, Pimec and Foment, in a very historic act, we could say, counselor, they have made, they have presented a manifesto in which they ask for the eradication of violence and lay the foundations for Catalonia to be a stable country, there is political stability and there is legal certainty. And it makes us suffer a lot from this motion that you want to enter Parliament and vote in November, because it will generate legal insecurity. And that's what the economy doesn't want. But not the economy of big business, because I can already imagine some comments, no..., is that businesses generate wealth and jobs in the territory. And we don't live in massively positive moments, do we? Remember, a few days ago, that we asked for General Cable's ERO; very little time ago I told Companion Ordeig that closes the Sada Group to Lleida; we have with many difficulties the Nissan... Home, therefore, we do not pose ourselves, in a free way, elements that further hinder the growth of our economy, we do not pose them. And sometimes you have the feeling that the president, above all, therefore, does not improve this climate of trust, political and legal instability that the country needs. And we need it so we don't lose inversions, so we don't lose firal activities. 2019 feels the most important year for what it does to firal activities, to firal events; so I continue to feel it. Let's remember the problems we had with Mobile a long time ago; so we won't have these problems again. We don't generate them ourselves, please, which seems to me to be very important. We do not want to lose tourists, we do not want to put up with the growth of the economy. And, therefore, we need political stability, legal certainty, trust and to improve the reputation, prestige and image of the country, of Barcelona and of our economy. It's very important. Yesterday, in Czechoslovakia, one of the business leaders said and clearly asked the president – who later did not take the word – that leaders, shared with other administrations..., who act as leader, who lead a united response to achieve this: to improve these aspects that are fundamental because the economy is better and grows, not just for businesses, but for those jobs that generate and bring economic and social progress to the country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.148.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to answer the question, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Maria Àngels Chacón, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.149.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Member, first of all, I must say that I do not agree with the events that we have experienced in Catalonia these past few days, as I do not agree with mobilizations..., reactions to a deeply unjust judicial sentence that condemns more than a hundred years of imprisonment for political and social leaders and that we understand that it violates rights and freedom of speech. My position in this sense has always been very clear: defense of the need to express legitimate dissent with an unfair feeling always from the civic, peaceful and democratic path. Let's ask ourselves why thousands and thousands of people decide to break their work or family routines. So to express his rebuff towards this feeling and his frustration before the lack of political proposals and the offer of dialogue. Succession of the Government of the Spanish State to a whole series of legitimate political demands, which have its detonation in the sense of the State of autonomy of the year 2010, has meant that Catalonia's citizenship has gone out into the street, a year back, to be listened to, and has done so in an exemplary, massive and peaceful way. As we've always done, I want to make it very clear that they condemn any violent action, come from where I come from. I return and insist: here my condemnation of any violent action. We've had a tough week, I'm sure. But we also need to make this necessary complaint about repression compatible with the country's economic strength. We must not sort, we must not sort, between the exercise of the fundamental rights and our economic prosperity. It's a perversion to pretend to choose just one, because we want the two to be complementary. One more time, therefore, it is necessary to seek the balance between the legitimate claim and the growth of a product fabric that is generally occupied and rich. This is the only way we can find the way that this country has to go to strengthen itself and combat injustice. We can and want to simultaneously defend the social, political and economic rights of the citizens of Catalonia; it is absolutely necessary because Catalonia continues to be a country of opportunity. We live in a global economy where Catalonia wants to be an actor with a strong, innovative, inclusive and sustainable product fabric, and today Catalonia is well positioned on an international scale. Our economy is dynamic and diversified, together with our country's culture and creative experience. These are some of the best international presentation cards we have. We can, therefore, have these indispensable acts of present and future. Let us not fall into the trap of thinking that in a week the Catalan economy can be undermined. This is the line in which my department works: to strengthen Catalonia's product fabric by positioning us in the knowledge economy to be an actor in a global context. Returning to the particular situation that we have experienced these past few days: from the outset, I must say that from the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge we have taken a constant and permanent follow-up with all socio-economic agents. These last few days we have held meetings with different agents, among which the Catalan Council of the Enterprise, integrated by Workers Commissions, UGT, Pimec, Foment, the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona, as well as other agents and main representatives of the sectors of commerce and tourism of the country. They are all natural and regular interlocutors of the Department. We follow the side of the product texture, as we always do: with the will of dialogue and consent. In these findings we have been able to analyse the reality of the socio-economic current, establish dialog spaces, continue to foster cooperation between administrations and economic and social agents and continue working to develop and apply joint strategies. For what it does to the impact of tourism, obviously we are monitoring the reactions of the last visitors, but we must avoid extruding conclusions precipitated in such a short period of time. And since we are talking about tourism, and the impact that the mobilizations of these days in the sector can have, I think we need to be careful and wait a few months so that we can make an objective and joint assessment with a very high perspective. Obviously, as we move forward with the evolution, we are concerned about one of the strategic sectors for our economy, which would only be lacking. And it cannot be otherwise when we speak of a sector that represents 12_percent of our gross domestic product and 14_percent of the country's occupation. We wear a positive year, and with the data we have accumulated from generation to consumption, more than 13 million tourists have already arrived, preferably from large-scale markets, such as the United States and Japan, and average spending has increased to EUR 196 per day. These are positive indicators, despite the fact that there has been all this and the malicious speech that sometimes some have devoted themselves to escape in order to harm the economy. If these proclamations have failed to defuse the good image of Barcelona and Catalonia as one of the great tourist destinations of the world, the mobilizations of the last week will not do so either. It's obvious that images of aldaruls don't add up, and I think we all agree that mobilizations must be civic and peaceful. And yet, in order to reassure them of the affect that our tourism sector can suffer, I can assure them that this government, that this department will not fall asleep and continue to work to empower it. In fact, two weeks from now, at the beginning of November, to be present at the world's leading event in the sector, the World Travel Market, which is held in London. In addition, we will follow the development activities of the strategic Pla of tourism aimed at deconcentration, deseasonalization, increased expenditure, social and cultural sustainability of the sector. In the United States we are also launching the promotional campaign of Time Out America magazine; in France we are also planning to attend different events in the sector, and in Asia – in Tokyo, Osaka and Seül – we will also be performing. Therefore, the request does not exude hurried conclusions at a time when it calls for serenity and dialogue. The best reception because the Catalan economy is not affected by negative externalities is to resolve the political conflict, and we will not do that in the courts, but we will do it out of politics. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.150.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, has the word the deputy Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.151.0	Thank you, Counselor. I think we've been pretty clear in the presentation, haven't we? There is – I would just miss – the right of demonstration, the right of protest; it is guaranteed, we have to guarantee it and we have to protect it, and I think that a lot of people – a lot of people – have been demonstrating peacefully for a long time, and we have said that, we have recognized it and we respect it. But, unfortunately, the last few days there are people who have not done so, and this we do not know what effects... in the economy; I did not want to talk about figures, but obviously if this is repeated, obviously, malmetry, how it probably harms the image and reputation and prestige of a country like ours. This is obvious, because they are elements that many people take into consideration when making an investment: if that country has a political instability like Catalonia shows, or..., a family has to decide what their holiday destination is. They are elements that influence, and therefore, we will see, it is true – in this analysis that you are doing and that we want to know – the effects, but I worry... The effects I worry about at the time that you have undertaken them later, there are people behind you, who have suffered. But what worries me the most – or what worries my parliamentary group the most – is what we will put there; who are the solutions, the answers that the government will give. And one of the answers to be given is political stability, calm – you said it very well, didn't you? – the dialect, the serenity... and this is the first one we ask of the President of the Generality. Miri, you're in charge of universities, and I'd love to make an incisor in this area, wouldn't you? , that it is an environment that you will agree with me that concerns us and is important. Yesterday President Torra spoke of talent, on the night of the Czech Republic. So I don't know if he's spoken to any rector these days; I have spoken to him, and I'm sure you have spoken to him, too. The rectors find themselves before the counterposition of two rights: those students who want to manifest themselves and want to make themselves vague, and those who have all the right to want to do classes, and the teachers who want to develop them. So one against the other requires violence to get away with it. And they're generating very complex situations at the university, and very difficult. We must give a message of tranquillity. I mean, did the president call the rectors? Is he at your side? Try to help them because the climate of tension and conflict at the university, which is where knowledge is generated, where we want it to be a space – is it true – of talent? Is that what happened? We think it hasn't happened, it hasn't called them, and it sounds like bad news. Today the universities are also painting this conflict and we should be able to ensure that some are manifest, and also ensure that those who want to develop their academic activity with normality. And it's not happening today. And that's hard, and that, if it's repeated and it's continuous over time, it's not good for the image of our country. And I think that we can either accept it or not, or we want to say it in public, or not, but it's a reality, and I think we need to be reasonable. Today the president said, I think, if I didn't get it wrong, that he was going to go to the Conca de Barbera to see the consequences of the caretakers, and it seems good to us and he has to do it. But I should also go to college to pick up the rectors at these difficult times. And I should've seen some restaurateurs, some hoteliers, some businessmen who've been through these villages. It should also be here; we don't understand why some places do and others don't. That's what we don't like. And that's what the economic sector is asking for in the fund: political stability gives it this; the woman the security, the firmness, the tranquility that a leader transmits or who should be a political leader, that is to go to a place and say: "Listen to me, nothing will happen, we are above, we do not allow there to be any more violence, all the support to the Mosos as things of security... All this – all this – is important and necessary to give political stability. And this one we believe is a message that the president is not giving, and this does not generate instability – the instability that the economy demands, which is so much and so porta. As a question of legal certainty: I would like to say that I am thinking about this idea of presenting this resolution, which has some point that could be unconstitutional another time and puts us in a difficult situation, and generates more legal insecurity, which is one of the things that companies also demand: security, legal security, to install themselves, to grow. Well, another time we ask the president, we ask the government, that if you please put it, a little, seny, felt common at a difficult time. And obviously it has to be done in Catalonia too, and it has to be done among parliamentary groups. Mr Iceta asked it today; we believe that it must be done with a certain celerity: it must call the parliamentary groups, it must speak with them, we must ask among all solutions to give this disabled. What message and image is more powerful than the president, with the presidents of parliamentary groups..., to dialogue and seek solutions: here in Catalonia – here in Catalonia with the situation we live in, and then we'll talk to the State. There are elections on November 10th, so we'll talk about it. Here, this image would be very powerful. Just like we saw today a powerful image of Pimech and Foment doing a joint act to his Foment. We believe that this is what I should do, President, that this is the leadership we are asking for, and that it is also asking for the economy, with all these manifestos that are later, therefore, being produced, and that, in the background, they are a cry for someone to listen to them, that the President of the General is listening to them, so that I will remove, lead, I will return the course of this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.152.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the end you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.153.0	Thank you very much. Member, as she pointed out before, our path will always be peaceful and democratic. A way that makes the complaint perfectly compatible for the repeated violation of rights and freedoms and at the same time the defense of our product fabric to strengthen our economy. We can and want to simultaneously defend the social, political and economic rights of the citizens of Catalonia. And doing so is not only possible, but it is necessary, because Catalonia, as I said, is still a country of opportunity. Actually, if we're talking about what the Catalan economy wears, don't forget, either, huh? We're talking – and now I'm talking about it – about concrete events, but we're not always talking about the lack of investments, the fiscal deficit, the energy costs, the lack of presuppositional execution in investments, the laws to pressure companies... That's what we wear out, our economy. It takes one more time, please, the responsibility to find ourselves all at a point where we cannot generate any type of division, where we must all be together, which is the defense of our productive economy. And more than defending it, we want to raise it; it's the only way we can face this political problem at a time – and we have to face it at a time – at a time. We have many reps, and we are focusing these days on the symptoms. Anem has the causes. So much about the symptoms we're obliving the causes. And it's obvious that it's completely wrong who believes that the Supreme Court's judgment solves it all and opens up a new stage: we can't act like we're not going through anything. You, who know Catalonia well, have the right and the opportunity to make it known that arrest and repression will never end with the demands of all those who claim to be able to exercise their legitimate rights and freedoms. One hundred years of imprisonment and no political proposal will not solve the problem. Mr. Sánchez, leave the election cards to the band and assume the responsibilities inherent in any political charge. We don't add up talking about wear, but we'll always be with those who want to strengthen and build. Catalonia is, and must continue to be, a country of opportunity. This week I kept in constant contact – I said before – with all economic agents, as was my duet. As the Business and Knowledge Advisor, but also on behalf of the Government, and obviously the President has not been informed at all times. The main economic agents– you did before reference–, the members of the Catalan Council of the Enterprise, the Council of Chambers, the Circle of Economy, Femcat, etc., all spoke this week, all made some kind of communication. There is a word that is repeated in all of them, one: "dialeg. Dialeg – Dialeg. We'll drop the phones, please. We're turning off the phones. Maybe it's just a little gesture, but I'm pretty sure it can be the beginning of the solution. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.154.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about self-government]] [[300-00182/12]] We move to the fifth point of the order of the day, which is the question to the Government about self-government, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose the inquiry, the honourable Member Maria Sirvent has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.155.0	Good afternoon. The truth is that we wanted to address this inquiry to Mr Pere Aragonès. Mr. Pere Aragonès, as Vice President and Senior Political Officer of the entire government apparatus, is not there today. We've been told it's in Madrid, talking to Mrs. Carmen Calvo. We imagine that it will be presenting the program of claims of the Catalan people, beginning with the need to free all political presses, twenty-seen them; the convictions in the Supreme's judgment, but also continuing, for the drawings of entrepreneurs these days, that have been criminalized for himself and for the government to which he belongs. But, well, it seemed that in the absence of Mr. Aragones he would answer us Meritxell Budó as the Presidency Counselor, but neither is he. He went to Montblanc for the riuades, which seems justified to us. So, finally, we have to address this inquiry to the Councillor of Justice, Esther Capella. So, well, we'll address it to you, Mrs. Capella, on behalf of the entire Government of the Generality. The people in struggle are falling for faces and demonstrating and unravelling the more authoritative face of a rule that can't be sustained. The Spanish State is holding on to repression and brute force today. Unclosed police violence, politicized justice and a media system concentrated in the hands of a few, which serves as a tool of social control, a tool to make us forget who decides what is and what is not rape. Today, Mr. Iceta asked the government to condemn, not just the past violence but the future violence. And we want to ask Mr.Iceta: do you condemn the concrete, effective and completely illegal violence that Turkey applies to Kurdistan? You, who call for convictions for future rapes, have no problem with dialogue and taking photographs with an Erdogan who is the most responsible. Or to the lords of the People's Party: what do you think, of Doña Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo, that divenders went on talking about « wave strikes, but that in change had no problems, in July 2017, to applaud the guarambas that cremated bald lives and planted bombs in the center of Caracas. Do I remember? Yes, siries, recordin: « Altamira, heart of Caracas. And it is that you certainly punish, not violence with capitals, you who want to condemn, prosecute and punish is the answer to injustices and forms of oppression. What they want to punish is the denunciation of an absurd and unjust system, and the denunciation of some make-up institutions of democracy, but they are absolutely incapable of responding to the rights and needs of most workers. And this policy of criminalization of political dissent does not only affect the Catalan countries, but also affects all the oppressed peoples for the Spanish State, in the popular struggle of the working class of the Murcian for the burial of the AVE, to the bourgeois against speculation at the Gamonal, to the extremes for worthy railway services, or in Andalusia, against the privatization of public health. In the face of an eco-social crisis that threatens our lives, of an economic crisis that is expected even harder than the previous ones, and that they intend to steal the future from thousands of young people; in the face of all the women murdered for patriarchal violence, the only answer is a dream of totality. A thought of totality to capitalism and a Spanish state that outstrips the interests of corrupt and bankers to the interests of the people. These days, thousands of people, despite their personal, political and collectible costs, continue to occupy places, villas and streets. These days, thousands of people show dignity. And, listen well: this will not stop or resolve with more than 600 injured people, some of them severely maimed, 200 detainees and 28 companies. Don't make a mistake. As much as Mr. Marlasca is threatening to arrest, so much so that the prosecution intends that all those who participate in this social revolt will end up in prison, even though the Government of the Generalitat has succumbed to these requests for arrest, as has already happened, every wounded company, every detained company, every company undertaken is one more reason to continue mobilising us. And, in the end, it's also a more motive to turn on gasoline in the fire. Is this the way they want to go? It does not seem to us that it is neither the best way nor the most intelligent way to approach the situation. It is true: the main responsible for the repression is the State and the Spanish Government, but the Government of the Generality is not fully responsible, because it has been unable to draw a clear political exit to the current scenario, because despite President Torra pointed to the exercise of self-determination before the end of the mandate, which was the compromise of Juntes for Catalonia and the Republican Left, and for which they were presented in the elections on 21 September, these two same forces denied and disallowed him practically instantly. Look: the president may have better or worse intentions, but the truth is in actions and facts. His government speaks of his actions much better than any speech that speaks, full of rhetoric and republican symbolism. Today, on TV3 mornings, Councilman Buch was talking about "returning to normality and getting old for the established one. But can you tell us what normality you've been talking about? To re-establish an order in which the government's advisors defend that the Interior Department validates the overrunning of demonstrators with police vehicles as a form of dispersion? And an order translated with permissiveness why does the National Police disappear some rubber balls that have been banned since 2014 for this very Parliament? From the order of an extreme right to which it is left to camp with obvious signs of connivance between the Squadron Mosses and the Feixism? In an order that allows journalists to be chased to do their job? In an order that allows speculators to do away with their home veins? Of a judicial system, counsel for Justice, that orders that it is tanquin websites and make records of their organizations and lawyers? Look, it seems to me that if you make an honest vote in this chamber today, if you name party interests or government balances, today and all the parties that govern will vote in favour of elections, and you know that and you see it all. We have already said this by active and passive: we do not support this government. And no, we're not trying to maintain an independence fiction, and less so with this government. Our unit is with the people, it is with the people who do not stop; with all those, whether from the government parties or the opposition, independent or non-independent, who do not accept that it is criminal and the right to protest is violent, but they want to seek explanations because of everything folded, and look to find solutions out of this autonomous and monarchic system that lapses, and, this yes, violent. This is our job. It's the reason why people send us here, and not for what the system wants, which is because things are still the way they are. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end and in the end, elections are not a solution either, why do they want them, these elections? Why can I be President of Mr. Torrent? Why is that more? Why is it Mr. Pere Aragonès? Well, now it looks like the government doesn't want to endorse President Torra, doesn't want leaders to have any political solution, but let them doubt, just as the people in the street, who are mobilising now, that they can be Mr Aragonès, Mr Torra or Mr Mas who can solve this situation. People who have moved more these days to hear the rule and to stand next to it, and to stop the mobilizations, than not to give a positive political exit. For us, the solution is right in another place, right in the people mobilized. And that's why we're asking this question, because what we want to know is what the government's answer is before this social exhaustion, what the government says before the fact that a whole generation finds that there's no future, that there's no future in this system itself. Because they've said enough, they've said enough that the benches go past the people. It is the umpteenth observation that the people, that the people always go ahead, that the people have surpassed the parties, and, obviously, they have also surpassed the institutions. And for us, that's not bad news, it's a proud, proud gesture of a people who are mobilized to defend free and sovereign Catalan countries, and socially just. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.156.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to answer the question, has the word the counselor of Justicia, Mrs Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.157.0	Well, very late, sir. MPs, MPs, Vice President..., Mrs. Sirvent, well, I will start by telling you that, in any case, the Government of the Generality decides who it answers and in what..., and that, in the end, I understand that you do not like it, perhaps, that I answer the Councillor of Justice. In any case, it's up to me at this point to represent the Government of Catalonia, and so I will try to do, despite the fact that you seem to have answered the Councillor of Justice. In any case I will also tell him, I will make a statement to him: the Government of Catalonia does its job, works and works constantly, and, therefore, the Vice President does that job that closes him to do, which is to seek a political solution to the political conflict that he has at these times Catalonia. And defending the interests of Catalans and Catalans means that we have to do everything we can to get close to each other in our fields, and go much further there, many times, than the areas that are close to us. For that, too, the Councillor of Justice answers him today. You've made a whole set of statements that I'd like to discuss. The first of all – after we talk about self-government – but in principle, if we talk about what is happening to us, it's good that we also focus the pilot and place it on the playing ground on the playing ground and on the playing field. It is not the Government of Catalonia or the Councillor of Justice who poses and takes people from the prison. That would be the first statement I'd want to make. I mean, they don't correspond to the Justice Councilwoman posing and pulling people out of jail. The second question I ask you from the Justice Council, and I think you also share with me, that the separation of powers must exist. That there is confusion of power in other governments, I might say that I agree with this statement that you make, that, for example, the Spanish State, all too often, has a constant confusion of power, in which political decisions often conflict with judicial decisions, or there is a way to introduce political contamination with judicial decisions. He might agree with you. Now, let me say that the Government of Catalonia, that the Councillor of Justice..., that the Department of Justice poses and takes people from the prison, therefore, it is obvious that... you have made this statement and therefore I answer it. He didn't do anything else – he didn't do anything else. Well, then, I'll say it, because let's start putting things in their place. I could make him here a list of weights and what happened in Catalonia's self-government. And whether it was worth having institutions or not it was worth having institutions. And I would also say, therefore, that if we go to read the Constitution literally, or ways of interpreting the Constitution, I would say it and I can say that the right to self-determination has a bearing on the Spanish Constitution, if it is interpreted in the heat of international law, that it is the property of the Spanish legal order, and that, in short, it is directly applicable. And I would say to him so classic and so ours, that they have right to self-determination of the peoples and nations of the world. First statement I make. Surely there are those who would question whether self-determination in Catalonia does not exist, because this is conducive to decolonization processes. So I would say that, in the 21st century, the interpretation that we have to make of self-determination is no longer the result of the principle – of the principle – of decolonization, but of the democratic principle, for example. So, that's the statement I make. And, well, you could make it a list of how Catalonia's self-government and institutions, the institutions of self-government, with their own limitations of a narrow, restrictive reading, not guaranteeing the fundamental rights of the person who made the Constitution and the State, surely limited us as a society and made us a society that was less free, less secure and, in any case, less just. Because to whom they played it and who politically had the capacity to decide has limited us. Well, I could tell him and make a long list. We could, as I said, enter into a deep legal debate on the right to self-determination – this word that you see now that we cannot say and that, therefore, means a limitation of ideological principles, the limitation of the right to hold the ideology that the real woman wins, if 'empowers the expression. And ultimately, therefore, they are limiting us in our right to express ourselves and to express ourselves politically: ideological freedom, they are limiting our ideological freedom. And I would tell you that all of this originates every time we've wanted to take self-government shares that have found a way to self-limit us or limit us, say as you like. Or because at some point the same Parliament in Catalonia has found mechanisms to self-limit the country's own self-government, at other times through statutory reforms have already taken care of some others to limit this self-government capacity that we have wanted to provide ourselves with. And among other things, the past was a ruling of the Constitutional Court that outlined the plan to the Parliament of Catalonia, to the Congress of Deputies and to the citizenry of Catalonia. So, if you want to, we're going through this permanent debate, but I'd say how we're going to move forward and we're going to go further and we're going to find solutions to what's going on. Already the second phase of limitation of self-government and also limitations of people's rights has been the judgment, which, therefore, has confirmed, has come to ratify to what we already some understand, that it is the judgment of the Supreme Court that was notified last week, that it came to tell us – that it came to tell us – or to tell us that the reasons are over the reasons of the right. And here we could enter into a great discussion – and they are certainly not, because the Councillor of Justice says so, but they have debated extensively a few professors and professors of procedural and criminal law – which deeply limits the fundamental rights, which goes beyond the reasons and motives of the independenceists, which goes beyond the people already condemned – prisoners and political pressures – and goes further, because it limits and determines and defines freedom of expression, freedom of manifestation and right, for example, to continue saying that we have right to self-determination. This word that now turns out that we can't say it or that we can't deploy it or that we can't continue to do it. Well, I don't know if it serves you the agreement of yesterday's government in which we expressed the compromise for a political and democratic solution to the conflict in Catalonia, and spoke and dialogued with the Spanish State. Yes, because doing politics means hearing the other's reasons, sure 'on a table, negotiating, talking and pacting. I, of course, in the last instance – in the last instance – the citizenry has the word. You came here today and gave us a rally, which I can share... there are a lot of things that you said I share, a lot of them, but you ask me directly when you know perfectly well, despite what we would like, that we are not a state. Although we want and do everything we can to be a summer. Although we don't have it right now, but we're working to keep it, which is the Catalan Republic. But you are asking me about some questions that I actually share with you and that you will certainly now have the opportunity, if you have any dissent in Madrid, to be able to signify directly in a state that participates in all these questions that you raised to me. And you don't ask me if I don't agree or not with you; I tell you that I do, that in many of the things that you said I agree, but in the end, I don't ask the Government of Catalonia about questions that we can't at these times, or that we can't.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.158.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, it's the congresswoman's turn again. When you're ready, Mrs. Servent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.159.0	Counselor, I don't know if she's been listening to our intervention. You were answering us on behalf of the government and not as the Councillor of Justice, and we don't want lessons from what is the separation of powers or from who dictates or ceases to dictate prison when we have not said that. Let us ask you a very clear question: can you deny to us, now and here, that the Advocates of the Generality, of the Government of which you are a party, have not asked for prisoners in the social revolt that has taken place? Can you deny that? Has your government cooperated or not cooperated with the state's repressive apparatus? We want you to answer these two questions, and you don't teach us how to separate powers or who to dictate or stop dictating prisoners, because we're not here for justice; we're in Parliament and we're doing politics. The question we have asked you, Counselor, is what is the government's answer, which is what is its political proposal before this social exhaustion. You've already denied it, they said you disagree with Mr. Torra's proposal to exercise self-determination before the end of the mandate. They presented themselves to the 21st of December elections with this compromise with the people and they have denied this political solution. Okay. So, what's the political solution they're putting on the table? Can you explain to us which proposal you have? Will they stop the repression against the fighting people or continue to condemn this struggle and coordinate with the state apparatus to suppress it? What will they do to put an end to the identifications, detentions and expulsions of migrants considered to be administratively extra-community? What are they going to do to stop the charges? Or will they continue to prioritize the privileges of the great owners before the law to a decent habitation? Or are you going to talk to me now about the regulation decree for the loggers? Will you tell me about this? , who was more in favor of employers and speculators than not of the veins, and in which they were positioned against all social movements. What will they do to increase the purchasing power of the working people when they have refused on repeated occasions to increase the underprivileged people who are working in outsourced businesses and who have been the fruit of a contract signed by the Generality? What will they do to combat wage inequalities between men and women? What are they going to do about the justice of dexterating and justifying male violence and deixing in the bad weather the victims of male violence? Will university fees be reduced or will Parliament be disobeyed? Will they continue to make privatisation easier or will they withdraw the law they are processing to make it easier? They're taking back Aragonese? Will they follow the objectives of deficit and debt, as well as the rule of expenditure, with what this means for the people, with what this means for the social services and for the precariousness of all a popular class that is at the door of a new economic crisis that will be of the hardest we have ever experienced? The responsibility is very great, Counselor. You and this government have a great responsibility and we need to put a political proposal on the table. And you just make rhetoric, give lessons, and we don't want lessons; we want to do politics. Benvolgued Councillor of Justice, on behalf of the entire Government of the Generality, how will the Government do and what steps will it take to bring this flagrant injustice to bear? We are clear about this, we will fight for the self-determination of the Catalan countries and total independence, for some Catalan anti-capitalist, feminist, ecological and socially just countries, and we will do it from all fronts; for the total amnesty of all reprisals for the regime; for the withdrawal of police and state military bodies; for the dissolution of Brimo and all anti-valots of the Mosso d'Esquadra, which are now the very ones that are made of mercenaries in the street; for the end of the social apartheid and the repeal of the Foreign Law; for the immediate suspension of all denominations; for the end of the waiting lists to public health; for the end of the wage perpetuation of 1.200_euros and the end of the national law; for the end of the pay of all crimes; for the end of the salary of the universities; for the payment of salaries; for the payment of salaries; for the payment of salaries; for the end of salaries of the universities; for the payment of salaries; for the payment of salaries; for the purchase of salaries; for the purchase of salaries. So, and ultimately, counsel, what we ask him and want him to answer us is what his political proposal is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.160.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To make the counter-replication, the counselor has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.161.0	Well, sir, I'll call you back, you didn't listen to me, but in any case, I'll insist. I told you, yesterday we made a government agreement that we approved the government that is the political proposal that you asked me directly. And, therefore, what did the Government of Catalonia say? So express its commitment to a political and democratic solution to the conflict between Catalonia and the institutions of the Spanish State, immediately the President in office of the Government of the State to initiate a dialogue without conditions, in which each party can propose the paths of resolution of the current conflict, which is a political conflict, which is not a judicial conflict. Therefore, what we are saying is that I ended the repression and that the solution does not pass through the Criminal Code; it passes through politics and the dialog. With that I assume you agree. In this dialog, the Government of the Generality will defend the exercise of the right to self-determination as a way to decide the future politics of Catalonia. Continue to promote the necessary actions to guarantee the human, civil and political rights of the citizens of Catalonia, especially the rights of demonstration, freedom of expression and information and communication to Catalonia. Reiterating the judgment given to the Supreme Court in Special Case 20,907 of 2017 in relation to the U d'Octubre and the case against independence, this general case. Congratulate on all the peaceful demonstrations that have taken place with the protest against the sentence. And repeat the sentence to all the acts of rape that have occurred. So, we're going to move his ladder to all the injured people, and we're going to get them a prompt recovery. And when we tell all people, they're all people. Promote political, social and institutional initiatives that are necessary in the national, state and international spheres to advance towards a political solution, democratic to the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State. To reiterate once again to the President in office of the Government of the State the need to initiate urgently this dialogue with the President of the Government of Catalonia. And you asked me a series of questions that I'll answer. I cease to insist on a question that is not certain: it is not certain that the Government of Catalonia will be in prison tomorrow; the Government of Catalonia will appear in criminal proceedings when there is a public office, because it is obliged by law to compare and defend the interests of the public office injured. Effectively. And for this reason, the lawyer of the legal services asks for pre-emptive bail-free prison, which means bail-free – bail-free. And you may continue to insist on this issue, but it is clear that every time there is a public office there is a legal obligation arising from this Parliament of Catalonia, and the responsibility of the Catalan public authorities is to defend everyone: the public offices and the citizenry. And you know – you know – that the functions of a police force are democratic functions, that they are to guarantee the full democratic exercise of all rights and also the protection of public officials who must guarantee these rights, and also, when there is a deviation from the function, look for who is responsible for the deviation. And you know that in Catalonia – this morning the Councillor of the Interior explained – many years ago we questioned each other. Do not impute – not imputed – to the Mossos d'Esquadra the use of certain tools; do not impute to the functioning of the squad the use, because they are bound by the obligations arising from this Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.162.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the promotion of the Aranish]] [[300-00183/12]] The next question is about the promotion of the Aranes and presents it, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Anna Geli. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.163.0	President, Councillor, Members, Members, those we follow closely, Director General, Tanben, of Linguistic Policy, good afternoon to all. I would like to express my indignation, as the Aranian force, at this moment's judgment of the legitimate Government of Catalonia, that it is my indignation, that it is civil, social, political rights of all democrats, and that it is not the case that they think it was independence and that it was the best solution between these two national realities. Today's judiciaire meace is the most effective right of the Aranians, the Catalans, and the Spanish. What a feeling that he did not get unless a lawfare, where it was used, was justifiably enough to solve it was unable to reach agreement and dialogue from this political point of view, among which it was most obvious: two national realities. Certainly, national realities existed for the sake of recognizance. For this reason, unlike the Spanish Government, he was a foreign national and a plan to recognize the Catalan Government. It was sensitive to the successive governments of Catalonia that allowed it to be located was Val d'Aran and it is only right historical in place to which it is considered: in the Statute deth 79, in the Orthographic Standards of the Spiders of the year 83, in the Law of the Special Regime of Aran deth 90, in the Reinstatation of the Council Generated in the year 91, was updating of the Orthographic Standards in 99, eth decreed the Law of the year 2002, was the Law of the Occitan, spiders in the Aran, and also in the Law of the Special Regime of the year 2015. The Council of Government has celebrated its first trip to the Val d'Aran, a significant hotel, and has also updated and agreed bilaterally between the two institutions. This is so much respect for Aran, that it is a provision that has been added to the present law of the year 2015 and that we recognize that it is right to decide on our future as a people; that is, she, by the way, voted in favour of all political forces, with the exception of the PP and Ciutadans. This means that eth PSC is voting in favour of now recognising deth póble aranés to decide eth são futur and, in turn, currently, eth PSC and altogether against at right of self-determination deth póble catalan; so, also serious against, you know, at right to decide deth póble aranés? These political contradictions do not help national and linguistic minorities as they were, for the sake of the fact that the violation we are experiencing on the part of the State of social, political, digital, economic and civil rights tanben and, indeed, a violation of linguistic rights. In the past, eth Spanish Government, in order not to complete, was not complete European Charter of minority languages. So you don't complete a warrant that I've got from the state. One of the examples was the success of so many of these PPs as of these PSOEs. This is a socialist government which, at the very moment, the Constitutional Court was the Law of the Occitan, spiders in Aran, to deal with the unconstitutional ethérme's preference. You ask: Hasn't Aran a preferred language spoken for four thousand people whom he predicted at my age of 46 million speakers of this castle? Don't you think, eh, Govèrn, that you're looking for positive discrimination from a stranger who was close to playing and keeping alive was our language? Certainly, we are responsible for speaking, for whom we have resigned from this language. Mess was denial and mesprètz of minority languages on the part of the Spanish State is not alive. I already wrote an illustrious spider, Jusèp Condó Sambeat gave in poem« Cards from a hilh to his mother, all the while rebreaming are days of caperan in Salardú, that when he left Aran and escaped from him well word in spiders, they recrimined him to speak « in Christianity ; that statement, as I say, written by Condò already at the beginning of the 20th century. Its names are recognizances and is commemorations that are held at the length of this country of prolific aguest write spiders, and of here eth least regrettably: eth Conselh Generau Madeish, era Academia d'Estudis Aranesi, eth Collectiu Lengua Viua, mes tanben des deth Departement de Cultura e Politica Linguistica dera Generalitat. As a guest, Mrs Vilallonga, I would like you to explain to me what are the main lines of this linguistic policy that respect the Western and the Spiders are holding such a difficult and constantly threatened legislature; what serious investments, tanben, are planned. Certainly, it was the culture of the Occitan life of the Europa mes florida and joyful of the troubadours and trobairitzs. It is still estimated that about 3 million people speak so-called Occitan variants. This is why it was now the Directorate of Linguistic Policy, the Generality, that is, the anniversary of the death of Robèrt Lafont as a linguist as well as acts along these territories. Aué, by the way, and remaining to agutes commemorations, eth cap-loc Catalan, Barcelona, monster was permanent exhibition named « Spiders, era occitan in Catalonia. And it's the next day, then, the Athenaeum Barcelones re-breams and the first visit made to Condo in 1925 in the Madeish Athenaeum. We know that we've been studying in linguistic use since the end of 2018, and we're afraid that so now he understands the spiders, he's looking forward to it by the end of 2013. Even though, as we said in Aran, you don't want to look for people until you see that we still want to work for them, even in social use. For this reason, they understand that the Catalan government is now sensitive to the alien reality, because it persuades in the air like it is communications honeys, in all the ways to get out of being a maximum possible country in this language. I also want to persuade – and at the end of the day, I'm in charge of this department – to equip the libraries with the most occitan month. And you, at the end of the day, can congratulate them on duburing educational and joyful information yarns like eth Twitter into spiders deth madeish department, and tanben was progressive translation of the websites of this Generalitat. We never have for, well, even then we never say that I am a system of educative spiders, supported by the Generality. I'm asking for trips to ester ath laguens dera Administration catalana siamos ath laguens des termières administratifs aragonesees: what would happen? So that Dilhătà start eth Conselh Generau d'Aran did not have to be re-established ever; Dilhătău Arán, Er Occitan d'Aran, was unserious as a vehicle language in schools, and, finally, maybe even a spider named LAPAO, an Aragonese language proper to the Pyrenean and pre-Pyrenean areas. We don't know, as serious as possible. Therefore, it is true that some of these Parliaments demand that the policies left behind are Occitan air – vietz in Catalonia and spiders – are still active and constant and are growing. As of this time I would like to point out that constantly questioning Catalonia, which proved to be sufficiently sensitive to the people of Aran and not to Aran, is not a good political practice. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Adishatz. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.164.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To make the answer has the word the Counsellor of Culture, the lady Maria Àngela Vilallonga. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.165.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Anna Geli, for your enriching contribution. It was a joy to hear her speak in the oranges in this room, in this Parliament of Catalonia. And thanks also for allowing'mixing and government explaining about the policies that, in charge of this Parliament, brings to fruition from the Department of Culture and from the Directorate General for Linguistic Policy. I'd like to say hello now to the Director General, who's in this room. This Government and the institution of the Generality have and have the responsibility and the unsurprising will to defend the proper linguistic heritage. We understand that this project forms part of our natural plurality and of the necessary respect we feel for the languages and cultures that constitute them as a collectivity. The orange, Occitan, is a language with important cultural foundations, which they send directly to us, as you yourself said evoking the troubadors and the trobairitz, to the cultural foundations of Europe. As you have also indicated very well, honourable Member, the Orange, for its specific conditions, needs a protective framework to deploy its social use and, in this way, to be able to continue to constitute itself in the social cohesion instrument that it is. We are speaking, as you have also indicated, of more than forty years of policies in favor of the Aranes. I won't repeat all these data, the laws that have gone forward. Now, at these times, we are on condition to expose the main lines, which is what you asked us, of the current government policy for what it does to the Aranes, which I will list through the following points. Let us continue to push forward the standard deployment of the Law 35/2010 of the Occident, Orange to the Aran, which this Parliament approved for a large majority of Parliaments. Collaborate with the General Council of the Aran in the coordination of policies of normalization of the Aran and diffusion of the occident in general. Donar support to the Institute of Aranesi Studies - Aranesa Academy of Occitan Language, as well as linguistic authority and regulations for occidentalism in Catalonia. Encourage the presence and use of the Aran in the Administration of the Government of Catalonia outside the Aran. For example, promote aranism through the generality's digital websites and environments, through the Public Library Network of Catalonia and in the health and public health fields. Promote collaboration agreements for the promotion of language and its international projection. Follow-up of the use and status of the orange tree. From the results of the 2018 People's Language Use Survey, which was donated to meet no time ago, I want to highlight the following data: an 83,3_per_cent of the population of the Aran understands the Aran; a 60_per_cent can speak; a 73,5 can read, and a 45,8 can write. These data project a growing social use in line with the results projected by data from previous surveys, from the years 2008 and 2013, respectively. It is to say that we are pleased that there is an increase in this social use of the Aranese. We also encourage, from the Government of the Government of Catalonia and from the Department of Linguistic Policy, the knowledge of language and provide resources to facilitate its learning and use. For example, the automatic translator: the automatic translation service of the General Directorate of Language Policy to the occident offers the possibility to translate texts online and can be incorporated into the websites as a translation button. This translator allows you to choose translations from the català and the castle at the occidental of Aran and at the referential occidental, and vice versa. The year 2018, for example, has translated more than 11 million words and has reached more than 240 service requests. And it seems to us that this is pretty important and meaningful of the work we're doing. On the other hand, there have also been online dictatorships, which are produced repeatedly. The Twitter channel Occitan Aranés, which you have already mentioned, which was started on June 2019 and which now has more than 1,400 followers; I invite all the deputies who follow this Twitter channel, so that we can increase the name of followers, so that we can be up to date on everything that happens in the world of the Aranes. We're also making hundreds of opportunities, orange to the Aran. A new creation of a line of Occidental Grants, which started the year 2017, continued the year 2018 and increased this year 2019. Let us hope that, if the assumptions are approved – that we are all looking forward to this approval of the assumptions –, by the year 2020, this subsidy is still higher. They're helping Interlingual. The inclusion of occurrence in the system of aid for the university sphere already exists since the year 2017. We also have a support channel for occidental courses, of the aranes and of the reference. We promote prestige and projection of language. For example, with the Llanterna Digital curtmetratges award, the Kastanya festival. Cat, the Robèrt Lafont prize – of which I would also like to recall that this year the Generalitat celebrates the commemoration of the anniversary of the death of Robèrt Lafont – and at these moments, as the deputy said, there is an exhibition at Arts Santa Mònica, which will be until October 27, "Aranès, the occità of Catalonia", which I also invite everyone to visit. Attention has also been paid to the promotion of language through public communication media. For example, in the year 2018, the Catalan Mitjans Corporation issued 547 hours of content in Arabic, 54 hours of television and 493 hours of radio. Let's hope this can also increase. On television, the space in Aran has been the information wheel of the channel 3/24 in Aran, from dills to differs, which is available on the internet; the Telenoticias commarques in Vall d'Aran, in disconnection only for the Aran, and the differs, before the general telenoticias of the media. More tales, for example, available on TV3 à la carte; Pirineus des de l'area, also available on TV3 a la carte. There was also a presence supported by radio and digital media, through the ccma web page. cat/ aranas, which I also invite everyone to visit. Users can access all corporate contents related to the Aran Valley. For what it does to the cultural assumptions destined for the Aranes, I want to note that the period from 2014 to 2018 reflects a clear will to continue working for the Aranesian language. In this sense, I would like to point out that, in 2014, we started with a budget of just over 100,000 euros and that, in 2018, it reached 260,000 euros. Let's wait, as I said before, for us to increase it in our own years. Preserving minority languages and cultural heritage is a democratic responsibility, and that is what the Councillor of Justice said a moment ago: "It is important to hear the reasons of others, of all speakers of all languages. This responsibility he gave is democratic, based on a pass by knowledge and respect for diversity. I would like to finish this intervention with a few words from George Steiner, one of the intellectual giants of our time. It's a few words they deserve to do. Says Steiner, and reads: "A language articulates a construction of value, meanings, suppose that no other language does not exactly replace it. The human species for multiple and different languages, engenders the richness of surroundings and adapts to them. Let's talk mons. We are proud to share the world of the occident, orange to the Aran. I would have liked to have done all of my intervention in Aran, but I will only make this phrase in Aran: "I'm eroded to share eth my Occitan, spiders in Aran. Thank you all very much for your attention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-23-4101.166.0	Thank you, Counselor. After this inquiry, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning, which we will resume with the eighth point of the order of the day. Thank you.
